Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
I 4 65--) 6r
Report No. 7387-UG
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
October 19, 1988
Eastern Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Division
This documnt has a restricted dstxlbuuon and may be used by recientb only In de perfonnamn  of
their offcad duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disosed without Wodd Bank authorizadon.



UGANDA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                            - Uganda Shillings (USh)
USh  150*                                - US$ 1.00
USh   1                                  - US$ 0.0066
Metric Equivalents
Metric System
Government Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
Academic Year
For Primary and Secondary Schools: January - November
For Universitys                      October - July
* As of July 1, 1988



I71R OMICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC AND SECTOR DATA
2
Area      X - Total                                 241,000 Km
Populationt - Total (1986 estimate)                  15.2 million
- Density                              64.2 per km2
- Annual Growth Rate                            2.8Z
- Crude Birth Rate                     50 per 1000 population
- Crude Death Rate                     18 per 1000 population
- Infant Mortality Rate                1081200 per 1000 live
births
Economy   s - GNP per capita in 1988                      US$230
Education
(a) Share of the Government Budget (per cent)
1971-1972   1983-1984  1986187  1987/88
Recurrent    21.6        16.8      11.6      25.6
Capital       5.4         2.7       7.2       5.2
Total        15.3        14.5      10.8      15.1
(b) Enrollment (1986)
Primary (1986)                  2,124,000 (442 girls)
Secondary                         157,000 (33Z girls)
Primary Teacher Training           10,252 students
Secondary Teacher Training          2,863 students
Lower Technical/Vocational
Training                            2,556 students
Middle /ligher Technical/
Vocational Training                 1,395 students
Makerere University                 5,060 students (28.5Z girls)
I This document has a  tcted disibuton and may be used by ripients o  in the pformunce
X oftheir oflcdutis Its contents may not othenwie be discloed without Wodd Bank authorizaon.



ABBREVIATJONS AND ACRONYMS
%,jt - Secondary School Certificate (after 6 years secondary)
ADB   - African Development Barik
CIDA - Canada International Development Agency
DEO   - District Education Officer
EEC     European Economic Comunnity
ITER - Institute of Teacher Education at Kyambogo
RIE   - Kenya Institute of Education
MOE   - Ministry of Education
MOF   - Ministry of Finance
NCDC - National Curriculum Development Center
NGO   - Non-govermental Organization
NTC   - National Teachers' College
Now   - Secondary School Certificate (after 4 years secondary)
PTA   - Parent - Teacher Association
RC    - Resistance Comittee
SEPU - School Equipment Production Unit (Kenya)
SON   - Statement of Expenditure
STEPU - Science & Technology Equipment and Production Unit
TTC   - Teacher Training College
TF    - Textbook Fund
VACE - Uganda Advanced Certificate of Education
uPE   - Universal Primary Education
VSO   - Volunteer Service Organization



UGANDA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
£'PRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Nos.
BASIC AND SECTOR DATA ...............................................
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUIMARY ............................              ............     i
I.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND                                  .     ..................... .  1
Economic Overview ....................... .      ...................         1
Sector Setting ........... .... ..................................           2
Primary Education ......... ..  ....................  * ...............      2
Secondary Education .............................. ........... . .           3
Teacher Training .... .. ........ ..... ..... .....   .  **  *  . .          4
Vocational, Technical and Commercial Education ..             ............   5
Higher Education . .................................. ..........             6
Bank Group Involvement in Education and Training ..             ..........   7
A Strategy for Educational Development                 .     ..............  8
II  THE PROJECT ..................................................... 
Project Obje.:tives ........... .  .........................................  9
Project Components ....                  .....so****.................        9
- A. Textbooks and Instructional Materials .            .............   10
- B. Institutional and Policy Development ...............               11
- C. Pre-Investment Studies .............................               15
III.PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN ................................    16
Project Costs ...............................................                16
Financing Plan ........................................................      18
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUEMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING ..                  19
Status of Project Preparation               ...............................  19
Project Implementation ......................................                19
Procurement ......................................                           20
Disbursements ..  ... . ................  ................  ........         22
Special Accounts .........................................................   23
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ..........................                23
V.  PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .....             ..................    23
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMNENDATION .................................                   24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Uganda in May, 1988 and included Messrs. Mulugeta Wodajo (Sr. Educator, Mission
leader), P. Baesjou (Economist, Consultant Unesco/CP), and Ms. C. Denning
(Textbook Specialist, Consultant). The report was written by Mr. Wodajo with
contribution from mission members. Mos. Fisher and Sullivan assisted in the
processing of the report.



TABLE OF CONSINTS (cont'd)
NMES
Annex 1            Comparative Education Indicators
Annex 2            Structure of Formal Education
Annex 3            Number of Schools by District and Size to Receive Books
Annex 4            Book Selection Procedure in the MOE
Annex S            Books Selected by the MOE for Fourth Education Project
Schools
Annex 6            Textbooks in Core Subjetts for the Pilot Scheme
Annex 7            Pilot Scheme for Establishing Textbook Fund
Annex 8            Proposed Topics for Pre-Investment Studies
Annex 9            Technical Assistance Requirements
Annex 10           Training Requirements
Annex 11           Project Costs:  Summary Accounts
Annex 12           Project Cost Summary
Annex 13           Project Costs:  Summary Accounts by Year
Annex 14           Project Costs:  Su-nary Accounts by Project Component
Annex 15           Project Costs: Project Components by Year
Annex 16           Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Annex 17           Schedule of Implementation
Annex 18           Ministry of Education Organization Chart
Annex 19           Documents Available in Project File
MNP: IBRD No. 20789



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
POURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUM(ARY
Borrowers            Republic of Uganda
Amount:              SDR 17.1 Million (US$22.0 Million equivalent)
Beneficiarr:         Ministry of Education
Terms:               Standard  IDA Terms with 40 years maturity.
Project Obiecti.as
and Description:    The proposed project is essentially a follow-up to the
Third Education Project (Cr 1329-UG) and has two
principal objective*. (a) maintain the momentum of the
Government's educational rehabilitation efforts and
ensure their sustainability; and (b) help prepare a
sector credit to implement the Government's emerging
educational strategy. In implementiag the above
objectives, the project woulds (i) finance the
procurement and distribution of instructional
materials and supplies to about 3,400 primary schools
that did not obtain such assistance under the Third
Education Project (or whose supplies were destroyed
during the civil unrest in 1984-86); (ii) help
establish on a limited (pilot) basis, a revolving
textbook fund to test the affordability and
feasibility of establishing a mechanism for the
permanent replenishment of textbooks in core subjects
with community and parental coutributions; (iii)
assist key departmentslunits  n the Ministry of
Education that have a strategic role in policy
formulation, improvement of instructional quality, and
project implementation; and (iv) finance pre-
investment studies and related activities in
preparation for a broader, sector-wide operation to be
identified and agreed with the Government during the
implementation of this project.
Benefits. The lroposed project woulds (i) improve
the quality oZ instruction in about 3,400 primary



- is -
school.; (ii) strengthen the Institutional capability
of the Hinistry of Education; and (iii) pave the way
for a longer term adjustment and revitalization of the
system.
Risks. Regarding the textbook component. since
procurement, distribution and other implementation
arrangements under the Third Project (Cr 1329-UG) are
expected to be retained, the principal risk concerns
the medium term: i.e. sustainability of the
mechanisms to purchase and finance textbooks and
instructional materials. The proposed textbook
revolving Fund would be a simple and affordable cost
sharing mechanism building upon the long tradition of
community and parent participation in primary
education. It would also encourage sustained
Government budgetary contribution. Regarding security
conditions which have improved considerably,
experience under the previous project has demonstrated
that major obstacles can be overcome by czmitted
staff and parents. There are no special risks related
to the other project components.



O)
PROJECT DATA
A. Estimated Pro3ect Costs
(USS Million)
Local   Foreign         Total
1. Primary School Improvement           0.1      12.00         12.01
(Textbooks, Instructional Material
Shipping and Consolidation)
2. Institutional and Policy Development
(Inspectorate, Textbook Unit.
Curriculum Development Center,
Education Policy
Commission, Project Unit)           3.80      3.25           7.05
3. Pre-Investment Studies              0.03      0.30           0.33
4. Project Preparation Facility (PPF) 0.03      0.28            0.31
Total Base Costs (1-4)              3.96    15.74           19.70
Physical Contingencies              0.39     1.58            1.97
Price Contingencies                 4.89     1.34            6.23
Total Project Costs                 9.24    18.66           27.90
B. Financing Plan (US$ Million)
Government                      5.90      -              5.90
IDA                             3.24    18.16           22.00
Total                           9.14    18.76           27.90
C. Estimated Credit Disbursementst
(USS Million)
IDA     Fiscal      Year
89      90      91        92       93
Annual                 4.60    7.10    5.20      3.10     2.00
Cumulative            4.60   11.70   16.90    20.00    22.00



UGANDA
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
EconoLic Overview
1.01     Uganda gained its independence in 1962 under favorable conditions:
an agricultural sector able to produce sufficient food for domestic
consumption and to generate foreign exchange through export of coffee,
cotton, tea and tobacco; a small industrial sector supplying basic inputs
and con,-,mer goods, as well as earning foreign exchange through export of
copper and textiles; a well-devaloped transport infrastructure; an
exportable surplus of hydroelectricity; and one of the most advanced
education systems in Africa. Well managed, the Ugandan economy was growing
at a steady annual real rate of two percent (per capita GDP), during the
first decade of independence. The export earnings were more than adequate
to cover Import requirements.
1.02     The following decade, however, was one of political turmoil and
economic decline, which culminated in 1078179 in a devastating civil war.
Stability has returned to the country only since January 1986, when the
National Resistance Army took over the Government, after short but
intensive fighting. The first objective of the new Government was to
restore securirvi which so far appears to have been achieved in the
Southern, Western and North-western parts of the country. The North-
eastern part is also gradually stabilizing. In addition, the Government is
taking major steps to rehabilitate the economy in order to bring down the
rampant inflation, to restore productive capacity and to stimulate domestic
production and exports, in particular nun-traditional exports.
1.03     In May 1987, the Government launched a major adjustment and
development program supported by the IMP and the World Bank. The ultimate
goal is to restore Uganda's social and economic vigor by revitalizing the
various sectors of its society. Rehabilitation of the education sector is
receiving high prior:ity, as reflected by the substantial increase of
recurrent expenditures on education as a percentage of total Government



recurrent expenditures: 25.6X in 1987/88 as against 11.62 in 1986187. A
number of policy and institutional measures had to accompany the
implementation of the recovery program, such as devaluation of the
currency, adoption of a carefully designed public investment program to
restore the economic and social irfrastructure, and introduction of a
reform of the civil service, of which the civil service census of 1987 may
be considered a first step. The success of the rehabilitation and recovery
program deperds largely upon the managerial and administretive capabilities
of the Govervment institutions concerned.
Sector SettinR
1.04     The education system has 4 levels (Annex 2) with 7 years primary,
4+2 years of secondary (00 and *A levels); and from 3 to 5 years of
Higher Education. In spite of political turmoil and economic decline, the
education system of Uganda continued to expand, though at great expense to
quality at all levels, though material assistance was given by the Third
Education Project (Cr. 1329-UG). Some of the most acute symptoms of
decline in educational quality include: the almost total absence of
textbooks and instructional materials; deteriorating teacher morale and
productivitys an exodus towards better employment opportunities inside or
outside the country; and a general lack of school maintenance. These
symptoms can be related to a number of critical issues which need to be
addressed on a sector wide basis. To name a few: (a) poor management and
financial control as evidenced by large discrepancies between the number of
teachers actually on post and those on the payroll; (b) excessively high
unit recurrent costs, particularly in secondary schools, teacher training
colleges, and technical institutions; (c) gross inefficiencies at all
levels as evidenced by small and unviable institutions that do not allcw
for economies of scale in their operations; (d) declining real incomes of
the teaching force; and (e) absence of clear policy and strategy for the
controlled expansion and the qualitative improvement of the sector. The
principal developments in the sector are summarized below.
Primary Education
1.05     Primary education enrollments have expanded throughout the last
decade, and the MOE estimated that in 1986, there were over 2.1 million
primary school pupils, representing about 70 percent of the primary school
age group. The MOE pays teachers' salaries, but an increasingly heavy
burden falls on parents, who are expected to pay fees to cover other costs.
MOE records show that in September 1986, it paid 83,095 teachers, giving a
monthly salary bill of (old) USh 1,174 million, or an annual total of USh
14.1 billion. However, these figures are very high compared with the MOE
Planning Unit's date on the number of teachers employed in the primary



-3-
schools In 1 04. Part of the difference moy be due to tempotary or part-
time -eachere, or teachers who are employed In more than oae school, and
therefore counted twice in the salary records. This discrepancy calls for
furtber examination. Other problems include the extremely short supply of
teaching materials, overcrowding in urban schools, ever-segmentation of the
syllabus and low quality of teaching because of the Increasing proportion
of untrained or unqualified teachers, who represented nearly 50 percent of
all primary school teachers.
1.06     The political pressure for universal primaty education (UPE) is
strong, but analysis of the costs and likely growth of expenditure on
primary education shows that Uganda is unlikel; to achieve UPE in this
century. The government could advance its achievement only by a more
efficient utilization of resources at all levels. Five financial scenarios
were compared which show that even under the most optimistic scenario,
which involves an increase in the proportion of the education budget
allocated to primary education (from 15 percent to 18.5 percent), and
increased fees paid by parents, the enrollment rate would reach 100 percent
only in about 15 years. The analysis shows that a policy of gradual
progression toward UPE is more likely to prove feasible than a policy based
on over optimistic targets and assumptions. Any attempt to achieve a more
rapid expansion of primary education would lead to further dilution ot
quality, which might itself prove self-defeating as it vould probably
result In increased drop-out rates and grade repetition. Furthermore,
experience in other sectors such as health, demonstrates that if Government
intends to obtain additional financial contributions from beneficiaries, it
must preserve and enhance key elements in the quality of the sBYiem, such
as providing textbooks, upgrading teache: quality (e.g through
reinforcement of the inspectorate) and iuVroving management capabilities of
headmasters.
Secondary Education
1.07     There are three types of secondary schoolss  fully aided,
partially aided, and private, of which the partially aided are the most
rapidly growing category. Enrollments in secondary schools have almost
tripled in the last ten years from about 60,000 in 1977 to 157,000 in 1986.
P'imale participation .uproved from about 27 per cent of total enrollment in
'.977 to 33 per cent in 1986. Enrollments are heavily weighted toward the
lower grades, as many schools do nut have a full six-year program.
Entrance to secondary school is highly competitive; only about 35 per cent
of those who complete primry school can find place in secondary schools.



1.08     Major discrepancies exist regarding the number of secondary
teachers. In 1984, the latest year for which teacher statistics are
available for fully and partially aided schools, there were 6,555 teachers
win post". But MOE's draft budget estimates indicate employment of 16,221
teachers. An expansion of teaching force to meet enrollment growth would
account for only 7,100 teachers, or less than half of the 16,221 contained
in the budget. This discrepancy needs to be rectified, as it has major
implication for cost savings. During Negotiations, Government agreed to
submit to the Association, by December 31, 1989, for its review an action
plan to eliminate discrepancies  between the number of primary and
secondary school teachers actually performing teaching duties and the
number of teachers on the payroll.
1.09     Teachers' salaries are the largest budget component in both the
fully and partially aided schools, and are the government's responsibility.
Parents and the gnvernment share all non-salary costs and salaries of non-
teaching staff. These contributions vary depending whether the school is
boarding or day or whether it prepares for '0' level or for '0' and 'A'
levels. Parents are being requested to add substantially to their present
contributions. Accoroing to one proposal currently under consideration,
parental contributions would increase by 22 fold. If these proposals are
accepted, and if Government decides to maintain the current cost sharing
ratio, it would have to increase its own share by a factor of 75 to 110.
Since this would not be realistic, the MOE is considering proposals to
gradually convert boarding schools (where unit costs are typically double
that of day schools) to day schools. The latter proposals are essential to
improve the efficiency of the system. and the feasibility of their
implementation would be studied under the proposed project (para. 2.17)
Teacher Training
1.10     Primary Teacher Training.  The basic qualification for primary
school teachers is the Grade III certificate which is awarded by teacher
training colleges (TTCs), following a two-year post '0' level certificate
course (Annex 2). The old Grade II Certificate (4 years after primary
school) is being phased out. The number of TTC's increased rapidly between
1980 and 1986 from 27 to 94. However, many of the colleges are of very
poor quality, situated in former primary or secondary school buildings,
with inadequate equipment and few specialist tutors. Total enrollment of
the 94 TTCs in 1986 was around 9,500, thus the average enrollment of a TTC
was only about 100 students. The small size and dispersed locations of the
TTCs in general make them uneconomic to operate and to staff with
specialist teachers. Further, the TTCs have a relatively



-5-
high drop out rate (about 10 between the first and second years). The low
salaries teachers earn upon graduation act as a further disincentive to
enter teaching. The estimated total stock of primary school teachers in
1986 was 83,000 of whom 30,000 were regarded as unqualifiedluntrained.
Besides carrying out a study on the actual number of teachers (paras
1.05-6), Government agreed to prepare a plan of action by December 31,
1990, to bring its TTC's, to a more economical size.
1.11     Secondary Teacher Training.  There are two sources of secondary
school teachers. The national teachers colleges (NTCs), and the Faculty of
Education at Makerere University. NTCs provide a two-year course after
award of the Uganda Advanced Certificate of Education CUACE), leading to
Grade V qualification, while the Faculty of Education offers a three-year
degree program. Like the TTCs, the NTCs have also been increasing in
number. There are at present 11 NTCs (compared to only 4 in 1982-83). In
addition the Institute of Teacher Education at Kyambogo (ITEK) near Kampala
also offers NTC courses, and validates and examines courses at the other
NTCs and at the TTCs. Enrollment data at NTCs is incomplete. The combined
enrollment at the Faculty of Education and the 11 NTCs in 1986 was 2,863,
with a combined output of 900 teachers, showing that the institutions are
too small (average enrollment of 260 in NTCs) to benefit from economy of
scale, particularly in view of the fact that the secondary school
curriculum contains 14 separate subjects, each of which require (at least
in theory) specialist teachers. The same feature of uneconomically small
size and fragmented specializations applies also to the Faculty of
Education and ITER. In addition to bringing its NTCs to a more economical
size, Government agreed to propose by December 31, 1990, measures to
improve the relation between school size and curriculum offerings.
Vocational, Technical and Commercial Education.
1.12     Uganda's occupational training system is a complex nine-tier
system that includes technical schools, technical colleges, a polytechnic
and a variety of lower level vocational training institutes operated by the
Ministry of Labor as well as by private industries. These institutions
offer a variety of courses for the training of craftsmen, technicians as
well as professional engineers (at the University). Allowances to students
and expenditures incidental to housing students, accounted for 42 percent
of the polytechnic budget, 40 percent of the National College of Business
Studies' budget, 70 percent at the technical institutes, 66 percent at the
technical schools and 51 percent at the technical colleges. These are



- 6 -
inordinately high levls of expenditure. In the technical schools as well
as technical and business colleges, the number of ancillary staff far
exceeded th. number of teaching staff. With student and staff housing and
allowances taking up such a high portion of the budget the institutions had
little or nothing left for equipment and learning materials.  The
institutions could achieve considerable savings, however, if they did not
pay allowances to students, but provided the necessary materials and
services directly, and If students were encouraged to attend local
institutions, thus saving boarding costs. The National Education Policy
Review Commission has been reviewing these issues and is likely to come up
with specific recomendations aimed at promoting efficiency and cost-
effectiveness, including perhaps phasing out boarding. Feasibility of the
latter would be studied under the project (para 2.17). During
negotiations, Government agreed to prepare by December 31, 1990, a plan of
action to bring its Vocational and Technical schools to a more economical
size.
Risher Education
1.13     Makerere University provides virtually all higher education in
Uganda. In recent years, its high costs have been a problem. Concerns
about the university's costs stem partly from the Ministry of Education's
awarenes that almost 13 percent of the country's education budget is
allocated to the university, while only 0.2 percent of Uganda's students
gain admittance, and that many competing needs for public funds exist,
including needs in other areas of the education system. Two additional
Universities are being establisheds an "Islamic University', and a 'second
university' in Mbarara. Little is known about them as yet, except that
they are bound to be a major financial burden and would impede Hakerere's
efforts toward full rehabilitation.
1.14     Makerere's students not only receive free room and board, but are
in addition given allowances for books, travel, and spending money. In
1986187, the total expenditure for students' food and allowraices slightly
exceeded the amount spent by the university on its academic activities,
support services, and administration. If the funds currently allocated to
student allowances and board were spent on qualitative improvements in the
university, the quality of the education the students receive would be
considerably enhanced. Tuition charges could contribute to further
improvements in instructional quality at Makerere. The feasibility of
alternative financial scenarios In Higher Education would be examined under
the project (para 2.17).



-7-
Bank Grouip Involvement in Educotion and Training
1.15     The First Education Project (Credit No. 101-UG, approved in April
1967) provided US$10 million equivalent, to assist in the expansion of
general secondary education. The project provided for physical facilities,
including student hostels, staff housing, furniture and equipment to
accommodate 11,800 secondary school students. The project was completed in
June 1973, some 18 months after the original closing date. A project
completion report was issued in October 1975 and a Project Performance
Audit Report (No. 1456) in February 1977. These reports concluded that
suitable physical facilities were fully and economically provided under the
project.
1.16     The Second Education Project  (Credit No. 258-UG, approved in June
1971) provided USS7.3 million equivalent, was designed to assist in meeting
manpower needs in the technical, agricultural and medical fields, and most
tiportantly in providing urgently needed teachers. The project included
extensions, furniture and equipment for two upper secondary schools, five
technical secondary schools and two agricultural colleges. It also
Included three new district farm institutes, a vocational training center,
a medical tutor training college and a nurses' and midwives' school.
Because of the experience acquired through the First Project, 80 staff-
years of specialist services and 18 staff-years of fellowships in fields
related to the project institutions were also included. The implementation
of the Second Education Project encountered serious difficulties, many of
them originating from the general socio-economic conditions prevailing in
the country at that time. Two postponements of the closing date were
approved and the project was closed in December 1981.
1.17     The Third Education Project (Cr 1329-UG approved in February 1983)
provided US$32 million equivalent, assisted in the rehabilitation of
primary, secondary, technical schools, and to a lesser extent the
University. The Project provided essential educational materials such as
textbooks, instructional materials ane equipment for about 5,200 primary
schools, about 177 secondary schools, and 33 teacher training and
vocational institutions. The project also provided library books and
profession.l journals to the University, in addition to the rehabilitation
of a number of residence halls. The Completion Report for the Third
Education Project undertaken by the Unesco Cooperative Program noted that,
in spite ^-t political instability and persistent security problems during
the pSriod of project implementation, about 99 per cent of the materials
prccured under the project reached the schools concerned and provided an
important but temporary uplift to the educational system. The challenge
therefore remained to devise more sustainable mechanisms for the financing
of essential non-salary expenditures for education.



-8-
1.18     Other Agencies' Assistance to the Sector A number of agencies,
govero ents and NGO's proviie assistance, en a limited scale to the
education and training sector. These agencies include: (a) the African
Developnent Bank (ADS) which is providing technical assistance, fellowships
and basic computing equipment to the Planning and Statistics Division of
MOE; (b) the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the United
Kingdom which is finalizing plans to assist NTC's and some of the
departments of the polytechnic (the latter in collaboration with VSO); and
(cc) EC which is providing assistance for the education and resettlement of
refugees in the North. The majcr NGOs that are active in the sector are
the World Lutheran Federation which is involved in the construction and
rehabilitation of primary and secondary schools in the West Nile District,
and Action Aid, also in the North. One Canadian NGO is involved in the
supply of didactic materials and textbooks. Additionally, several
governmental as well as international agencies (such as USAID, EEC, and the
Governments of Italy, Germany and Norway) are assisting in the
rehabilitation of Nekerere University.
A Strategy for Educational Develowaent
1.19     In conclusion, and.despite years of difficulties, the education
system has continued to operate, though at a much lower level of quality
than it used to provide. Past lack of leadership allowed a proliferation
of certain types of schools often '"low optimum size (TTCs, NTCs, technical
schools), the perpetuation of privileges (boarding schools, student
subsidies in technical, teacher, and higher education), and an erosion of
financial controls (number of teachers employed vs. numbers paid). At the
same time, parents have had to increase their own contributions to the cost
of education, especially at primary level where their share may represent
301 of recurrent expenses. Revitalization of the system requires a
combination of measures: (a) improvement of quality; (b) greater cost-
effectiveness and improved financial controls; (c) improved staff morale;
and (d) further increases In parental or community financial support,
hopefully combined with a greater voice over the efficieney of the
institutions' operation. These measures are more than Government can
undertake without external financial assistance.
1.20     A possible strategy could, therefore, consist of external
assistance to non-salary expenses (textbooks, supplies, equipment, school
maintenance and rehabilitation), together with support for upgrading of key
functions (pedagogical advice, management capabilities). This would help



- 9 -
restore morale in the teaching force and a will tc manage at all levels,
which in turn could be reinforced by shared oversight of the operation of
particular facilities coupled vith provision of additional parental or
comunity financial contributions. In parallel, studies to improve cost-
effectiveness would be carried out; and the resulting action plans would be
launched over the next following years. Once these meqsures are
implemented, the system would have a sound basis frog tich to expand
again. This strategy would provide a basis for the proposed project as
well as for a subsequent sector operation, hopefully to be supported by IDA
and other donors.
II. THE PROJECT
Proiect Obiectives
2.01     Consistent with the strategy for the system as a whole (paras
1.19-1.20), the proposed project would follow-up on the Third Education
Project (Credit 1329-UG) to extend the provision of textbooks and related
instructional materials to primary schools not included at that time and to
devise a mechanism to make such provision more sustainable financially.
Also, the project would build upon Government policy studies and the Bank's
sector work (education finance study) to prepare the groundwork for a more
extensive sector operation that would assist system-wide improvements in
support of the Government's key policy objectives. The proposed project is
thus a bridging operation with the following objectives: (a) maintain the
momentum of the Government's educational rehabilitation efforts and ensure
their sustainability; (b) assist the Government in initiating, on a limited
(pilot) basis, a revolving Textbook Fund for the replenishment of
instructional materials on a permanent basis; (c) strengthen key
institutions in the MOE involved in improving and monitoring educational
quality and in project implementation; and (d) help prepare a sector loan
to implement the Government's emerging educati^nal strategy.
Project Components
2.02     The project would finance the following components corresponding
to the above objectives: (i) provision of textbooki and instructional
materials; (ii) assistance for institutional and policy development,
including setting up of a pilot textbook fund, and providing support to the
Inspectorate, the Curriculum Development Center, the Science equipment
production unit, the Project Implementation Unit (para 4.02) and the



- 10 -
National Education Policy Review Commission; and (iii) carrying out studies
to prepare a follow-up project.
A. Textbooks and Instructional Materials.
2.03       Under t'-- Third Education Project (Credit 1329-UG), about 5,200
primary schools were provided with pupils' books, teachers' guides, and
related instructional materials and equipment. The proposed project aims
to conttnue the provision of textbooks and teachers guides to approximately
3,400 primary schools (Annex 3). The vast majority of these schools (about
75Z) had not received books under the Third project, but some (about 800)
deserve re-supply of the books received earlier as the schools had been
destroyed or looted during the 1984-86 civil war.
2.04     An unintended outcome of the Third Education Project is that it
has created a major disparity in the quality of instruction between the
better established schools, to which IDA provided assistance, and the new
and less endowed schools which did not receive such assistance. In
addition, the better established schools have more resources of their own
as their Parent-Teacher Associations (PTAs) are more active in raising
funds from the comuuuity to supplement teachers' salaries and to help with
other school operating expenses. The disparity between these two sets of
schools has become so conspicuous that in some parts of the country
(including ZAmpala) the new, less established schools are referred to as
-Third World Schools*. Examination results in the Kampala area show that
results in the latter schools are consistently lower than in the better
established IDA - assisted schools (also called *First World Schools')
Furthermore, as the level of individual parental contributions assessed by
the PTAs in the more established and better endowed schools is sometimes
quite high, poorer parents may have to transfer their children to schools
which charge lower fees (and hence have inferior facilities and supplies).
This phenomenon, unless checked, could lead to the emergence of a dual
track system based on the parents' ability to pay PTA fees. The proposed
assistance to the less endowed schools that did not obtain textbooks and
instructional materials under the Third IDA Project would therefore not
only meet pedagogical objectives but would also result in improved equity.
2.05     The books and materials to be procured would be essentially the
same as those in the Third project, with some modifications to accommodate
the new books since prepared by the National Curriculum Development Center
(NCDC) -- see Annexes 4 and 5. At Government's request, exercise books,
chalk, pens and pencils will not be included as the Government plans to
provide these items (which can be procured locally), thereby limiting
IDA's assistance to textbooks, equipment and materials which are available
only from abroad.



- 11 -
B. Institutional and Policy Development
2.06     Textbook Fund.  The shortage (or even total absence) of
instructional materials at all levels is a persistent problem that requiros
a more permanent solution than occasional provision by foreign donors. Now
would be an opportune time for the Government to introduce on a pilot basis
a new textbook policy whereby books would be sold rather than given out
free, as all Government primary schools in the country will have received
free books (through IDA III and IV). The proposed project would therefore
assist in the launching of a pilot scheme to test the feasibility and
affordability of a revolving Textbook Fund (TY) for the replenishment of
textbooks and instructional materials on a permanent basis. The Fund would
consist of annual contributions from parents/communities, as well as from
MOE. MOE's contribution would be expected to be additional to the
operating budget normally allocated to each school. Under the pilot
scheme, MOE would select four districts (one each from the old four
administrative zones) and provide an opportunity for schools from such four
districts to participate in the pilot scheme. It is expected that about
800 schools which had received textbooks under Credit 1329-UG would
benefit. Schools that participate in the pilot scheme would receive "top-
up" books in the four core subjects (mathematics, science, English and
social studies--see Annex 6) to replace books (from Third IDA project) that
have been lost/worn out or to accommodate increases in enrollment. Parents
would be required to pay for the books with the understanding that their
contribution was assisting in providing continuity in the supply of core
subject textbooks, and that the TF would be generalized in a follow-up
project possibly to the whole country if the pilot schemes proves to be
efficient, practical and affordable. The project would provide a
consultant to initiate the TF and to monitor its progress periodically. The
terms of reference of this consultant would include the assurance of
suitable provisions for the accountability for that fund.
2.07     The TP would have its own exclusive account at a commercial bank
which would be interest bearing. The fund and its account would be managed
by a Textbook Supply Unit at the PIU in the MOE. Details on the
administrative and financial management of the Pilot scheme are described
in Annex 7.   During Negotiations the Government (a) presented for IDA's
review acceptable criteria for the selection of the four districts tt it
would participate in the pilot scheme, and the names of the districts that
were selected for the purpose, and (b) provided assurances that
part'cipation of schools in the pilot scheme from the four districts will
be on a voluntary basis. The Government further agreed that before May 31,
1989 it would present for IDA's review a detailed plan for the operation of
the TF includings (a) the specific arrangements selected for the collection
of TF funds, (b) arrangements made between MOE, MOP and the Bank of Uganda
under which MOV shall ensure that adequate foreign exchange shall be made
available to MOE for the acquisition of textbooks and educational materials
with TP funds, tc) specific criteria for monitoring progress during the



- 12 -
implem_ntation of TY, and (d)3the level of the Government's contribution to
the TJ. By June 30. 1990, MOE vill carry out an interim evaluation of the
pilot scheme to deterine tCie eztent of success of the scheme, including an
assessment of the underlying causes.In addition, MOE agreed that by June
30, 1991, it will carry out a second evaluation of the scheme and, subject
to the results of such evaluation, it will make appropriate recommendations
to Government and to provide an opportunity for IDS to review and coment
on the recommendations.
2.08     Insgectorate.  The Inspectorate is the principal department at MOE
for establishing educational standards at all levels, and for ensuring that
those standards are adhered to properly. To discharge this responsibility,
the department maintains a cadre of inspectors at the central, regional and
district levels. In principle, the insrectors are expected to visit
schools regularly and to work with headmasters and individual teachers in
ensuring that the syllabus is covered adequately, that textbooks and
instructional materials are used properly, that lesson plans are prepared
and executed carefully, and in general that teachers and pupils are
perfonuing at the prescribed level. However, in practice the Inspectorate
has not been able to discharge its responsibilities for a variety of
reasons, including shortage of qualified and ezperienced staff, absence of
logistical support (in particular vehicles) to enable inspectors to
undertake regular visits to schools, and shortage of qualified and
experienced teachers and headmasters who appreciate the benefits to be
derived from inspectors' visits. The situation is further exacerbated by
the almost total absence of textbooks and instructional materlals in those
classrooms which have not benefitted from external aid.
2.09     The project would address some of the above weaknesses by
strengthening the Inspectorate in the following manner. First, through a
series of seminars, workshops and other training programs, inspectors would
be introduced to recent developments in supervision, teacher coaching
techniques, teacher evaluation and monitoring of instructional activities.
The upgrading of the knowledge and skills of inspectorsisupervisors is of
crucial importance in the present situation of Uganda, as the country has
been cut off from the outside world for almost two decades and a large
portion of the experienced and qualified professional staff is no lorger on
post (or may have even left the country) in the course of the civil war and
social upheavals of the past two decades. Additionally, the project would
finance an expert on educational supervisionlevaluation for 24 staff-months
to assist the MDR in developing a detailed work program and strategy for
improving and strengthening the Inspectorate. In particular, the expert
would assist in organizing and conducting workshops, seminars and training
programs for Inspectors, at the district and regional levels. In
-ullaboration with Headquarter Inspectorate staff, and drawing on the



- 13 -
experience of neighboring countries, the technical assistance expert would
also assist in the preparation of suitable handbooks and guidelines for the
use of inspectors, teachers and headmasters containing practical
suggestions that vould help improve teaching/learning effectiveness.
2.10     Finally, to increase the mobility of inspectors so they can
undertake more frequent visits to schools, the project would provide
motorcycles (about three per district). together with spare parts and
operating costs. Motorcycles provided under the previous project proved to
be extremely useful in improving the mobility (and hence the morale) of
inspectors: but their usefulness was short-lived on account of the
political instability that engulfed the country shortly after the arrival
of the motor bicycles in 1985, which led to the loss and/or in some cases
forcible takeover by armed soldi.rs. This is unlikely to he a problem any
longer. In addition, each district would be expected to strengthen a
system of vehicle use and maintenance, coupled with monitoring by the
Dictrict Education Officer (DEO) to ensure that the vehicles are used for
official purpose only.
2.11     The strengthening of the Inspectorate would complement and
reinforce the project's main thrust; namely, the provision of textbooks and
instructional materials, by enhancing the effectiveness of supervisory
personnel whose function would be to ensure that, inter alia, textbooks and
Instructional material are properly utilized. MOE agreed during
negotiations that is would, with the assistance of a suitably qualified
experts (a) prepare a detailed plan, including a work program and
strategy, patisfactory to the Association, for improving and strengthening
the Inapectorate; (b) organize and conduct workshops, seminars and training
programs for inspection at the District and regional levels; (c) prepare
suitable handbooks and guidelines for the use of inspectors, teachers and
headmasters; and (d) strengthen the system of vehicle use and maintenance.
By September 30, 1989, MOE shall submit to the Association for its review,
a three-year work program for the period beginning July 1, 1990, and ending
July 30, 1993; and by September 30 of each future year of the project,
submit a performance report for the preceding fiscal year and an updated
work program for the following fiscal year. Submission of the
aforementioned three-year work program (updated annually) and annual
performance report will be a condition for disbursement of operating costs
for the Inspectorate (para. 2.10).
2.12     National Curriculum Development Center (NCDC).  In addition to the
Inspectorate, the project would assist the NCDC. The NCDC is the principal
organ of the MOE for developing and producing curriculum materials, writing
syllabi for all levels (except the University), conceptualizing and
producing teaching aids, and running orientation courses for teachers. The
subject panels are the main mechanism for evaluation of the curricula and
syllabi produced by the NCDC. Each subject panel includes a subject
specialist from the NCDC, a teacher trainer, a representative from the
Examination Council, eight school teachers and is chaired by a



- 14 _
representative from the Inspectorate. There are 12 subject panels for
primary schools, 15 for secondary schools and a subject panel for each
technical subject. In the past, these subject panels have not been able to
hold regular meetins for lack of logistical support including operatiag
costs. In addition, although the NCDC was established &s a semi-autonomous
statutory body as far back as 1973, its capability for publishing and
printing even siople teaching materials remains extremely modest.
2.14     The proposed project would assist the NCDC in the following two
ways: (a) it would finance a portion of the incremental operating costs to
enable the various primary school subject panels to meet regularly during
the life of the project to produce, revise and pilot test syllabi and
course materials; and (b) it would provide the services of a short-term
consultant (6 to 8 weeks) to assess the cost effectiveness, quality and
reliability of local publishing and local pzinting in the context of the
Government's objective of developing and strengthening local insetitutions.
2.15     Science and Technolozv Equipment and Production Unit (STFGJ.  The
project would assist the newly established Science & Technology Equipment
and Profuction Unit (STEPU) to undertake experimental work on simple, low-
cost scisece Instructional materials and equipment, under the overall
managerial and professional guidance of NCDC, as the equipment would have
to meet tie needs of the curricula and.textbooks being developed by NCDC
for primary and secondary schoole. Specifically, the project would finance
short-term, on-the-job training for three STEPU staff at an older and more
established institution in Kenya (School Equipment Production Unit - SEPU)
In the design, production, evaluation and distribution of science
equipment. Additionally, the administrator of STEPU will also be sponsored
on a short-term study to Kenya to study the relationship of the Kenya
Institute of Education (IKM) and SEPW, and how the experience of those two
older institutions would relate to their counterparts in Uganda; namely,
NCDC and STEPU. The project would also finance (i) a short-term consultant
to help develop realistic short and medium-term objectives, a three-year
work program and identify training needs for STEPU staff, and (it)
essential office equipment and start-up operating costs.
2.16     Education Policy Review Commission. As part of the overall aim to
strengthen institutional and policy development, the project is supporting
through an already approved PPF advance the newly established Education
Policy Review Comisuion in finalizing, prioritizing and costing its policy
recommendations. Specifically, the project is providing a short-term
consultant to work with the Commission on the preparation of the report and



- 1S -
costing of the recomuendations.  Also, with funds made available through
the PPF, key members of the Commission were sponsored on a study-tour of
African and Asian countries, in particul&r those where large scale policy
reforms have been initiated (e.g. Ghana). As Uganda has been in virtual
isolation for almost two decades, these study tours proved quite valuable
for members of the Commission to relate the reform proposals under
consideration in their country with those carried out (or planned) in other
African and Asian countries. The project would also cover the cos-4 of a
donors' conference co follow-up completion of the Government policy
recomendations and implementation strategy.
C. Pre-Investment Studies
2.17     Another important objective of the project is to support studies
to assist the Government in implementing agreed policy measores resulting
from ongoing assessments of the education sector, such as the one currently
underway by the Education Policy Review Commission. The studies are
expected to generate the data and information needed to address a number of
issues identified by the Government's policy commission, the Bank, and
other agencies, as well &s formulate appropriate optikons regarding policy
or administrative measures. Topics identified for further study includes
(a) financing and efficiency of education with special reference to the
financial implications of the proposals being made by the Education Policy
Review Commission (b) analysis of the civil service census in terms of its
implications for the organization and operation of MOE including
elimination of discrepancies between the numbers employed and those paid;
(c) feasibility study on local textbook publishing and printing: and (d)
feasibility study on provision of water to rural primary schools. Other
topico that require further study could includes (a) determination of
optimum levels of enrollment in reladion with currriculum offerings for
cost-effective operation of institutions (particularly teacher training and
technical institutions); (b) measures to reduce the over-segmentation of
the primary school syllabus; (c) ways to limit over-specialization of
secondary school teachers; and (d) strategies for phased elimination of
boarding and other forms of student subsidies, or gradual recovery of the
full costs for these services in the context of moving the country's
educational system toward financial sustainability. Annex 8 contains short
descriptions of the proposed studies. A provision of 27 staff-months has
been made to implement the above studies, and additional ones, to be
agreeable to Government and IDA which would need to be undertaken to help
prepare a sector operation. At negotiations, the Government agreed to
carry out pre-investment studies required to implement policy measures in
the education sector and for preparing a subsequent sector operation.



- 16 -
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Project Costs
3.01     The total project cost is estimated at US$27.9 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of aboat US$18.8 million eqtmivalent.
There are no taxes or duties on project items. An IDA Credit of US$22.0
million is proposed to finance all foreign exchange costs, and a portion of
local costs deemed essential for successful implementation of the project.
The Goveroment would contribute US$5.9 million (about 202 of total project
costs) to finance the remaining local costs. The cost estimates are based
on June 1988 prices. Foreign exchange costs were estimated at 1002 for
textbooks, pedagogical materials, vehicles, and overseas training
(fellowships) and 902 for technical assistance. The foreign exchange cost
of remaining project items (local traininglseminars, and incremental
operating costs) was estimated at 102.
3.02     Cost estimates for textbooks and instructional materials and
equipment were based on the prices obtained for the same items under the
Third Education project, with allowance for inflation and exchange rate
fluctuations.  The technical assirtance and consultant categories consist
of long-ternm support for project implementation and the Inspectorate;
short-term support to various institutions (NCDC, STEPU, Education Policy
Review Commission) and for carrying out of pre-investment studies.
Expatriate assistance (both long-term and short-term) was estimated at an
average cost of US$ 12,100 per staff-month, which includes salaries,
housing, travel and allowances. Costs for overseas training (fellowships)
were computed on the basis of US$ 5,000 per month. Local
workshops/seminars were costed at 286,000 Ug.Shs per person per month
(including travel, accomodation, feeding and overhead costs). A breakdown
of technical assistance and training requirements (overseas and local) is
shown in Annexes 9 and 10.
3.03     Physical contingencies, estimated at 102, were used for all
project items. Annual prlce escalation rates have been estimated for local
and foreign costs as follows:
1989   1990    1991     1992    1993
(Percent)
Local     60      34      17      10      10
Foreign    3       3       4       4       4



- 17 -
On the basis of the above annual rates for physical and price
contingencies, the estimted project cost would include a total of USS
1.97 million equivalent for physical contingency and US$6.23 million
equivalent for price escalation during the five-year project implementation
period. Detailed project costs by component and cost category are shown in
Annexes 11 to 15.  A Summary of project costs is shown belows
Summry of Project Cost Estimates
(US$ Million)
Local  Forsian    Total
1. Primary School Improvement
(a) Textbooks                      -        6.43       6.43
(b) Instructional Materials
and Equipment                 0.10      2.48       2.58
(c) Shipping & Consolidation      -         3.00       3.00
Total Baseline Costs (1)        0.10      11.91      12.01
2. Institutional & Policy Development
(a) Textbooks for Textbook Unit/
Pilot Project                 -         1.25       1.25
(b) Motorcycles & Spare Parts     -         0.13       0.13
Cc) Vehicles                      -         0.12       0.12
;d) Technical Assistance 11       0.12      1.05       1.17
ge) Training Abroad               -         0.29       0.29
(f) Workshops & Seminars          0.51      0.06       0.57
(g) Incremental Operating Costs   3.17      0.35       3.52
Total Baseline Costs (2)         3.80      3.25       7.05
3. Pre-Investment Studies (3)               0.03     0.30       0.33
4.  Proiect Preparation Facility CPPF) (4) 0.03      0.28       0.31
Total Base Costs (1-4)         3.96    15.74       19.70
Physical Contingencies         0.39      1.58       1.97
Price Contingencies            4.89      1634       6.23
Total Project Cost                 9.24    18.66      27.90
1/  Includes short-term consultants



- 18 _
Financing Plan
3.04     An IDS credit of SDR 17.1 million (US$22 million equivalent)
would represent about 80X of the total cost of the project (there are no
taxes on project items) and would finance 10OX of the foreign exchange as
well as 351 of local costs. The Financing Plan, containing the respective
contribuition of the Government and IDA, is shown below:
US$ Million Eauivalent
Govt.   IDA        Total
1.  Textbooks                             -          7.68       7.68
2. Instructional Materiais and Office
and Teaching Equipment                 -        2.58        2.58
3. Vehicles, Motorcycles and
Spare Parts                            -        0.25        0.25
4.  Technical Asaistance and
Training Abroad                        -        1.86        1.86
5.  Overseas Shipping and Consolidationt    -        3.00       3.00
6.  In-country Workshops and Seminars      0.30      0.27       0.57
7.  Operating Costs                        3.00     0.52        3.52
8. Project Preparation Facility (PPF)      -         0.31       0.31
9.   Unallocated                           2.60     5.53        8.13
Total                             5.90    22.00       27.90
3.05     The Government's counterpart contribution amounting to US$5.90
million equivalent (in local currency) would be phased evenly over the
five-year implementation period, and would be used mostly (62Z) to cover
the salaries of local PIU staff and to finance a portion of the operating
costs for workshops and seminars for the Inspectorate and the NCDC.
3.06     Financial Sustainability.  The project would encourage
consolidation and increased cost effectiveness of the education system and
would hardly generate additional operating costs, except regarding the
provision of textbooks where the total cost for the 800 pilot schools to be
reached under the project would be $1.2 million of which Government might
cover about 50? starting in 1991 (Annex 7 p.9-10). This amount would be
only 0.6? of the 1991 education budget. If the scheme is expanded to all
schools in the country, the ultimate cost would be $7.8 million by 1995 of
which Government would finance about half. On the assumption that
Government would transfer about 113 of its contribution every year to the



- 19 -
TF, such contribution would represent a maximum of 1.32 of the education
budget, which has been projected to grow at 22 per year in real terms from
the 1987188 level. This level of financing would be quite reasonable.
IV. PROJZCT IMPLD4ENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
Status of Pro1ect Preparation
4.01     IDA has been cooperating vith MOE since the late 1960's in the
implementation of three IDA - assisted projects, thereby helping MOE to
develop a reasonably strong Project Implementation Unit (PIU). As the
proposed project is essentially a continuation of the recently completed
Third Education Project (Cr 1329-UG), it is at an advanced stage of
preparation. WitL the help of a PPF advance of $310,000 approved in
January, 1988 the contracts of two of the technical assistance staff that
assisted the MOE in the implementation of Cr 1329-UG were extended to help
with project preparation. A list of the schools (by District) to be
assisted has been compiled with the help of DEO's and categorized according
to size (enrollment) (Annex 3). MOE's official textbook list has been
revised to include textbooks newly produced by NCDC (Annex 5). The
Government has decided to utilize overseas consolidations to expedite
procurement and distribution of textbooks and instructional materials as in
the Third Project; and preparation of tender documents for the selection of
agencies to undertake consolidation of books and equipment is underway.
Project Implementation
4.02     The proposed project would be administered by the PIU established
for the Third Education Project. The Government intends to retain the
services of two of the technical assistance staff who helped in the
implementation of that project. Concurrently, MOE is initiating a
concerted search for experienced and highly qualified senior Ugandan staff
(possibly among Ugandans returning from overseas) to work with the
technical assistance team and eventually to replace them, as previous
efforts in recruiting qualified and experienced Ugandan staff locally had
not been entirely successful. One of the two technical assistance staff on
post may continue as Project Accountant, and the other would serve as
Advisor to the Project Director; a Ugandan Deputy Project Director and a
senior accountant would be recruited to work with the Director and the
Advisor in preparation of his eventual assumption of the directorship of
the Unit. Requirements for implementing the pilot scheme for the Textbook
Fund (staffing, phasing, financial and auditing, etc) are described in
Annex 7. The Government would provide IDA with semi-annual reports on the
implementation of all components of the project, and a completion report
within six months of the project completion date.



- 20 -
Procurmunt
4.03     Procurement arrangements are sumarized in the Table below:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ million)
(Including Contingencies)
Item                                  Procurement Method 1/
ICB     LCB      Other  MA 2/ Total
Textbooks                            -        -       9.23    -      9.23
(9.23)        (9.23)
Instructional Materials and Office
and Teaching Equipmint             3.00    0.10    -          -     3.10
(3.10)  (0.10)                  (3.10)
Motor bicycles & Spare Parts          -      0.15      -       -     0.15
(0.15)                  (0.15)
Vehicles                              -      0.13      -       -     0.13
(0.13)     -            (0.13)
Overseas Shipping and
Consolidation                      3.43      _        _       -     3.43
(3.43)    -        -            (3.43)
Technical Assistance and
Training Abroad                      -       -       2.60    -      2.60
(2.60)        (2.60)
In-Country Workshops and Seminars    -        -        -      1.20   1.20
(0.33) (0.33)
Operating Costs                       -       -        -      8.06   8.06
(3.03) (3.03)
Total Project Costs                  6.43    0.38    11.83   9.26  27.90
(6.43)  (0.38)  (11.83) (3.36)(22.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis refer to amounts to be financed by IDA.
2/ NA - Not applicable



- 21 -
4.04     Procurement arrangements will be the same as those used for the
Third Education Project, namely: contracts for equipment, and
consolidation and shipment of books to Uganda would be awarded on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank
Group's guidelines for procurement. Procurement of vehicles, motorcyles
and spare parts in packages costing less than US$50,000 (estimated to total
about (US$380,000), would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures to be
satisfactory to the Bank Group (see below). Contracts for the procurement
of textbooks would be agreed by negotiations with the publishers holding
the copyrights of those books. The aggregate value of contracts to be
awarded by ICB is estimated at about US$6.4 million equivalent including
contingencies. Where ICB procedures are used for procurement of
instructional materials, qualified domestic manufacturers would be allowed
a marginal preference of 15Z or the existing rate of import duties,
whichever is lower, over the CIF price of competing foreign suppliers.
Procurement Packages of values over $100,000 would be subject to prior
review by the Association; contracts below this limit would be subject to
selective post-award review. The Uganda Country Assessment Report (Dated
December 22, 1986) found that LCB procedures were unsatisfactory. During
Negotiations the Government provided assurances that LCB procedures that
conform to the basic principles for LCB outlined in the Bank's guidelines
would be applied for LCB procurement under the project (estimated cost
$0.38 million).
4.05     All IDA financed technical assistance and short-term consultants
would be selected in conformity with the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrower and the World Bank as an Executing
Agency' (August 1981).



__22 -
Disbureents
4.06     The isbursement profile for the education sector in Eastern
Africa is 9 years. However, as the project is essentially a replication of
the Third Zducation Project (Cr 1329-UG), which was fully disbursed in
about six years, despite civil war and political instability in the
country, a five-year implementation period is proposed. The project would
therefore be completed by December 31, 1993 and the closing date would be
June 30, 1994. Also, as the thrust of the project is procurement of
textbooks, which are to be procured, consolidated and transported directly
to district headquarters from overseas, 85S of the Credit is expected to be
disbursed in 3 years. The estimated schedule of disbursement appears in
Annex 16 and the schedule of implementation in Annex 17.
4.07    Allocation of the Credit by disbursement Category is shown in the
following Tables
Allocation and Disbursement Categories
for IDA Credit
Category                          Amount  X of Estimated Amount
(US$)   to be Disbursed
1. Textbooks                               7.68          100 of foreign exp.
2. Instructional Materials & Teaching
and Office Equipment                    2.58          100
+ 802 of local expenditures
3. Vehicles, Motorcycles &
Spare Parts                             0.25         '00        *
4. Technical Assistance                    1.58          100 of foreign and
local expenditues
S* Training Abroad                         0.28          100 of foreign exp.
6. Overseas Shipping & Consolidation       3.00          100       ' 0   8
7. In-Country Workshops & Seminars         0.27    5O0  of total expenditure
8. Operating Costs                         0.52    301 for inspectorate;
rest 151
9. Project Preparation Facility            0.31
Total Baseline Costs       16.47
Contingencies               5.53
Total Credit Amount               22.00
4.08    All withdrawal applications would be accompanied by full
documentation, except for contracts valued at less than US$25,000
equivalent, operating costs, and the cost of in-country workshops and
seminars for which disbursements would be made against certified statements
af expenditure (SO); documentation would be retained at the Project Unit
for review by Bank supervision missions and project auditors.



- 23 -
Special Account
4.09     Following the experience of the Third Education Project, to
expedite project implementation a Special Account would be established in a
commercial bank. A USDollar Special Account would be opened in a
co mmercial bank, through the Bank of Uganda. and operated and maintained on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation for the
Special Account would be US$2.0 million, representing anticipated eligible
expenditures for a period of four months (excluding anticipated direct
payments to large overseas suppliers such as publishers). The Special
Account would be replenished by the Bank on receipt of properly documented
withdrawal applications prepared by the Project Implementation Unit on a
regular monthly basis promptly after receipt and reconciliation of bank
statements from the commercial bank.   The MOP F'ould provide MOE, for use
by the PIU, counterpart funds, on a quarterly basis, to cover estimated
expenditures required by the PIU for a three. onth period. By June 30 of
each fiscal year the Project Unit would prepare, for IDA review,
anticipated expenditures for the following project year, which would form
the basis for replenishing these counterpart funds. During negotiations,
the Government and the Bank agreed on the details for the establishment,
operation and accounting requirements for the SOEs and Special Account, in
conformity with B^.k guidelines.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.10     The Project Unit would establish and maintain separate financial
records for all accounts, including the Textbook Fund account, SOEs, and
the Special accounts. The financial records should conform to
internationally accepted accounting procedures. The Government would
appoint independent Auditors acceptable to IDA, for the project accounts
and for the Textbook Fund. Annual audits would be required for all project
accounts, including the Textbook Fund within six months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.01     Benefits.  The major benefits to be derived from the proposed
project as are as followst (i) it would extend the pro,'ision of textbooks



- 24 -
and related instructional materials to 3.400 primary schools including
those not covered under the previous (Third Education) project, thereby
expanding the benefits to all primary schools in the country and mitigating
the possible emergence of a dual system of primary schools; (ii) the
Government having thus provided all primary schools with free textbooks,
there exists unique opportunity to establish a Textbook Fund, thereby
introducing a more realistic and affordable textbook policy based on cost-
sharing between the Government and the parents and communities; (iii) it
would help improve competency and morale within the teaching force,
headmasters and inspectorate and strengthen the institutional capability of
the Ministry of Education; and finally, (iv) it would pave the way for a
longer term adjustment and revitalization of the system by financing pre-
investment studies to address key policy and administrative issues. This
would hopefully lead to a future policy-based sector credit.
5.02     Risks.  Regarding the textbook component and the TF, since
procurement, distribution and other imFlementation arrangements adopted
under the Third Project are expected to be retained, the principal risk
concerns the medium terms i.e. the sustainability of the supply of
textbooks and instructional materials. In this regard, the project would
build upon the tradition of parental support for primary education and
would introduce and pilot test a simple and affordable cost sharing
mechanism which would also encourage sustained Government budgetary
contribution. Regarding security conditions, which have improved
considerably, experience under the previous project has demonstrated that
major obstacles can be overcome by committed staff and parents. There are
no particular risks attached to the other project components.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Policy Objectives
6.01     To improve the cost-effectiveness of its education system so as to
make its operation more financially sustainables
(a)   By December 31, 1989, Government would submit to the
Association for its review an action plan to elimlate
discrepancies between the number of teachers employed and
the number paid (para 1.08).



- 25 -
(b)   By December 31, 1990, Government would prepare a plan of
action to bring its TTCs, NTCs and technical institutions to
a more economical size (paras. 1.10, 1.11, 1.12).
(c) By December 31, 1990 Government would prepare measures to
improve the relation between school size and curriculum
offerings (para. 1.11).
B. Proiect Implementation
6.02     Textbook Fund (TF).  During Negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that participation of schools in the pilot scheme from the four
districts selected will be on a voluntary basti (Para. 2.07).
6.03     Before May 31, 1989, the Government would present for IDA's
review, a detailed plan for the operation of the TF includings
(a)   the specific arrangements selected for the collection of TF
funds;
(b)   arrangements between MOE, MOF and the Bank of Uganda under
which MOP shall ensure that adequate foreign exchange shall
be made available to MOE for the acquisition of textbooks
and educational materials with TF funds;
(c)   specific criteria for monitoring progress in the
implementation of the TF; and
(d)   the level of the Government's contribution to the TF (Para.
2.07)
6.04     By June 30, 1990 MOE will carry out an interim evaluation of the
pilot scheme to determine the extent of success of the scheme including an
assessment of the underlying causes. By June 30, 1991, MOE will carry out
a second evaluation of the scheme, and subject to the results of such
evaluation, it will make appropriate recommendation to Government and
provide an opportunity for IDA to review and comment on those
recommendations (Para 2.07).



- 26 -
6.05     Inspectorate.  Moe shall, with the assistance of a suitably
qualified experts (a) prepare a detailed plan, including a work program
and strategy, satisfactory to the Association, for improving and
strengthening the Inspectorate; (b) organize and conduct workshops,
seainart and training programs for inspection at the District 'end regional
levels; (c) prepare suitable handbooks and guidelines for the use of
inspectors, te*chera and headmasters; and (4) strengthen the system of
vexicle use and maintenance. By September 30, 1989, MOE shall submit to
the Association for its review, a three-year work program for the period
beginning July 1, 1990 and ending July 30, 1993; and by September 30 of
each future year of the project; submit a performance report for the
preceding fiscal year and an updated work program for the following fiscal
year. Submission of the aforementioned three-year work program (updated
annually) and nnual performance report will be a condition for
disbursement of operating costs for the Inspectorate (para. 2.11).
6.06     Pre-Investment Studies.  The Government agreed to undertake pre-
investment studies required to implement policy measures in the education
sector and for preparing a subsequent sector operation (para. 2.17).
6.07     Other Implementation arrangements.  The Government agreed to:
(a)   provide IDA semi-annual reports on the implementation of all
components of the project, and a completion report within
six months of the project completion date. (Para. 4.02);
(b)   provide assuranc- that acceptable LCB procedures that
conform to the basic principle for LCB outlined in the
Bank's guidelines would be applied for LCB procurement under
the project (Para. 4.04);
(c)   provide MOE, for use by PIU, counterpart funds, on a
quarterly basis to cover estimated expenditures required by
the PIU for a three-month period (Para. 4.09);
(d)   appoint independent auditors acceptable to IDA for the
project accounts and for the TF account, and submit annual
audits to IDA of all accounts (including SOEs) within six
months of the end of the Government'> fiseal year. (Para.
4.10).
6.08     Recommendation.  Subject to the above provisions, the proposed
project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 17.1
million (US$22.00 million equivalent) to the Government of Uganda.



- 27-                                                                      Annex 1
rWAIO4A?V8 goucArION 190104108                                                PageT1of  2
sOIRTIAL                   S           S         t           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t   
S                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:08 IOUCATIOSI MICURRENT    :4A0ULt   S  :2ATE FOR1  ' UNIT 038? iPRO93StIOW
*        .    .      ~~~~~~~~:0(1P PIE:     :AS1 PgRCENT   :EX191=1U88  MLTERACY:PRIMAR.?:PRIIART   5161*9481 sIftImAIT        A   FM42  P94   :11008043: ICaODAIIY RIG*UR
*           ~~~~~~:9881: POP. !CAPITA :PCENCT 09P:101TAL MIZRTALALLOC4TUD TD:5RA11    sIIUROLL. sSCIIoO   :71*11211 £0008111n iPIinaRT To iIgROLL.  'STURmT  :R18301.t.
*           .U~~~~~~VARSRILL9. sCUSS)  WtEVOTfiD TO) :00VE6IRK I   t1Rt  sZo  WI    (2)   :6A1*0  :61CL1   Ma1    I1S PEACINTS1009081   :3A1IO    SF11             :24110
:(*979):(*979) :EDUCATIONI  18PRUIENITUI     C)         (1976) : (I)   5 (23    SYlACUER irA#ICAPITAI.    (8)             (2)     140*91       (U)
*  :  ~~~ (5)  (2)  :    (1)    :  (4)  :    (9)          (4)   1 (7) ~~~~~~~~~~~~ (8)    :  (93    (50)         1)         (2         *):(4
0121.071 COUNTAR1PS
AU-STRALI A        80    *4.9k  81,870      9.3'        *4.6        -- - -        -           loin      t00         2*        -            99          73        *3      20.10
648804            ft    21.yb  9,690b    Y.?.           59.56?      30'1 34.R7 23'?1  gqb     106'      t00        2l        99.9'?       *00          92'       i8      22.60'
CERIIAII  P.R.     79    61.2  12,200       6.6          9.9'       --  -    --    991         89n      100'                  -           I00R         94'       -        l2,10
N11*9IRLAXIIS      i9    14.0  10,490       7.9          S.1       20   3s   29      9963      94        93         to        *9.3         99          92        13      12.60
RWV 281A81D        80      ).2b'  4,081k    5.9'        11.4        37   3*   a8      "b      to0       too         24       *1.6         t00          82        Is      z9.soz6
WE1101             79      8.3  *2,25(1     9.0         19.         3*   10   t0     996       992      too         *8'      19.9         *00          79R       Joey    16.-,)a?
14L113 AI'tCA
001T2MAK4          93      90kb    920b    6.0          22.0        4*   34   U       40      too        77         32       *0.0          40          20        25        L.80
11fl11110          8l      4.3     239      2,8b'       19.0       4.3  28   21      29        29'       39         37       20.2          12           39       1o        1.00
004610             64      0.4b    369      M.J         28,0        69  2922          49       76        40         39       -             69          34        26       0.60
OJIsUtI            84     0.4      480      3.0         11.9        73   29   ...    t0        42        66        40        67.0          40          t0        It       0.90
INTROPIA           83    43.0      110      3,69         1.9       99S  28   97      39        37        30'       63        19.3          93'         16        4        0.30
1181A              62    17.4b    420b    Sg.Sb         20.5b      69   *6   5*      48b      553        so         34       *4.4          is          to        26       -
1.13019            82      1.&6    4)3b    9.9          16.9        38   32   26      Sib     116'       A9 t-     49         9.6          49          21        it       1.10
NNADACASC          77      8.9     330      4.0'        26.0       93   29   19      s0        9461      33         996       8.0          36          14        33       3.106?
PA81.4*1           81      *.lb    2306    9.9          11.4        38   16   IS      336      62        33         69        9.9          *2           4        31       0.40
IIAURITIUS         8)      5.06  I,*70b    4.3          *4.0       46   36    7      gob       93        72         33       93.0         1oo          so        22       1.00
VA""0              93      9,9b    270b    3.6          27.4       71   16   13      376       69        30        40        16.0           9           9        19       0.40
SEIOIELLIS         79      0.4   1.770      9.9         22.6        a4  33    0                                     9         --- 
SONALIA            et      4.9     zo       1.5         *0.3S     350b  34346*  166    306     9)6       o0 9Tbso  22 b      -.b           ;-           ;                 1.00
SUDAN              80    199,6    39gb    3.q           -           966 39...    32            Slim      68         34        9,4     4                19        16       .
88821.4*1          63      0.76    94gb    3.epb        20.4       St   34   is      6S        93        s0         33       *5.0          98          29        Is       3.00
14152481           80      MS.    260       9.9         17.7        47   to   *6      79b       "6       9?         43       *1.0          996          3        20'      0.30
UGANDA4            89    15.2b    2201k   1.6           *2.0        1o   It   28      92        %b       42         34         5,9b        31          lg        22       0.606?
38t9g              e1    29,9b    210b    7.7           26.4       -    -    10       946      76        23         30       21.0          40          Is        28       2.00
zuAnt              so      9,7b    966b    4,99         15.1       482Z3   22         4b       93        s0        48        12.9          *9          16        22        1.90
22t*488            at      7,7b    700b    3.5          19.9       62   32    6       44b      90        is         39       20.0          as          Is       23        0.30
91919              79      3.4b    320b    6.9'         35.0       43   21    9    il          42        30        96        14.0          30          15       43        5.00?
8U9229             83      6.1     Z*gb    2.1'         21.7       43   29   28      9         *6        29         97       24.3          16           3        24       0.03
CA**ERoO           94    *0.0      9job    3.59                     33  382is    20            89        496        s0       -             -           23        29       2.70
C.A.9.             86      2.96b    2406    3.8'?       24.7'?     49   14   24    -           79        43         63'?     t 19                      la        97       1.40'?
CRAD0              87      9.2      *79     2.6         6.9         98?  94?   3?   -          44        39         60        9.           33           7'       37       0.90'
CONGO              78      15.     670      9.0"?       27.7'?      -   -    -       -         -         -          966?     -             30          -         4397     4.00'?
10*A1. GUt114 A            0.3b    2706    2.8           3.9       47   14   ...   20b         *3        to        so         9.2          40          29        *7'? 
64809              77      0.6   3,420      3.7b?        6,41               -       -                               4467            -            -               9967     2.080'
6(11*3A            77      0.6     220      ,. 34        9,6       44   23'  9'  job           4gby      00'       276?      46 .7w        40          j2bN7    *7 
C*IAIA             76    1I.)      400      4,0?        IS,96b           -  -       -          7*bx'?               276?                   -           3462?    2*        -
CUtRIA             79      9.3     23p    6.69P         --         29' 28  28'  20             34        36         38       20.0'?        6s          16       29        7.00'
0*U191A IStSAU     96       .96     1706                 9.6       44   92   -       *1?()     so        to         28        2.0          -           -         16        -
IVORYl 00A8T       93      9,3b    730      7.3        42.8        3*  4.0    9    39'?        72        79        37        39.0          49          22"g    so         5,48
Lt9IRtA            80      5.9     320      4.6         19.9       43   23   24    30          92        32        39        20.0          79          22       20        2.90
KALI.              8*      7.06    *90      4.3'        21.7'       58   It   II    to         20        60        4         19.7          66           *        It       0.90'?
RAU9UAIIA          96      1,7b    41ob    9.0          22.4        32   40   23    *7         99        33         90       30.0          84          *6       23        6.80
91011              64      9.2     300      2.8         25.0       4023 20           14        29        20         36       41.0          37           6       28        0.90
9101814            63    93,.6b    76gb    7.4?         *6.0       -    -    53    56          93        70         38       *9.           4?          23       30        2.00
3191681            84      6,4     590      S.Ob        24.0       446  35b  *96   28          32        99t       4         26.0          *9'        *MA       24        2.20'
81ERRA 14091       77      3.6     25       A.ob        160        -    -    -       596       37x       -          39       23.0b         84          99'       22       0.60b?
T0M                70      2.4     600      6,99'       29.99      30' 28' 2*'   19            74        40         9667     38.0          93          3262?    486       5,6oby
LATIN 81(11t04 41*1 TRE 6A9199188
AICITIRA           Tv  '--T.-32-,2to        2.7         *0.9        636  3*' *'  ,"b           89        92         *7       -             87          31        S       23.00
8811884            7       0.3   2,770      9.7         *9.1       34 36* III         6        99        97        24        -             97          79       *9       -
9431490            78      0.2   2.660      6.5fty     22.9'       430  St~  l96   96         *00?       99'       27?       19.9'         99'         78?      20?      --
R01.VIA            so      9.4     990      4.9'?       30.9'      -    -    -      93         74?       -          070      -                        -                  *3,9 2.0?
BRAZL              79   1*9.9   5710        3.           9.         t9        1 4    76        73'?      -         23'        4,96         61'         159'     5437    t3,462
C*111.             74     *09    ,90        3,6         530                                    967       -         3467      -             -           9961?    206?    I1.90b?
001.0461           so    29.16  5,59b    3.3            29.0       39   20   20    956         7s        36        32         8.6          -           47       20       10,02'?
COSA 91CA          80      2.2    1,8o0    8.4          39.1       40   27   33    00          93        77        33         9.9          77          40       27       *4,00
0*19               78      9.8     -        8.0         *9.0       -   --9   6                59262?    98          *8b7     -             98          75b1y    *9       I9.02b?
DORINIcAR IFP.    so       9.3   5,0)0      2.9         I3.G       39   2*   22      ob9       so        31        S9         3.2          96          30       33       19.00
1ROAM0             so      9,46, 9*55p      6.09        36.?       4S   31   56    8t         *09        -          36       *2.6          96          47       16       29.00
IL SALVADOR        it      4.4     940      3.46b?      23,96y      4    a   37    62          93627    32         39        -             41          28k?y   37b        7,906?
GUATIIALA          78      6.6   5.0*0      5.7'?      133,6b            -    -     -          69617    -           3967     -             691         9362?    a6        990
0*11494      ~~~~79   0.13 .6                       3,96?      -    ---        -          9962y    -           326?     -             -           99627     S- 3006?
64111              80      S.0b    230      3.6~         ?."'?     GS    9    8    336         so        go        49        98.0          62'          4'      27        0.80
90628*963     ~~~78   3.9     320      3.96?       i4b 14.3    0    *9   59'   0          99627    30         4*67      *2.8'         S8&         21' WI    59       9.00?
.086890A           80      2.5   5,1*0      4.9         13.7       31   43   to    w0          SS        98        40         2.3          99          81       22        6.00
*91110             80    93.9   5.860       4.7         57,08       4939*Is    93              98        93        44         9.9          96          36       17       *0. 30
9109818*4          i8      3,46b    Glob    3.0ko       14.0b      -    -    -       Wb        *61b    24          376       -             -           9441     job      -
10aff"             78      t.Bb  15.390     S.Sby       23,8b?     41' 13' IS    936           "by?      -         336?,    11.9           63'         906?     276?    20.4ob?
#AL80141           79      3.0   1,940      1,4'p       94.2       42   *7   20    64          83        32        28         3.9r         76          22       12        0,70
Pao0               so    16.9   5.000       3.8         *4.3       33   is   19    OD          83        96        39         9.8          89          39       23       14,40?
19161083   Too0.   77      1.1   3.910      -,8by        9.8y      40    3   t0   Its          Go        9*        30        50.91,        49          42       34 
01*10114)          is      2.9 3.90         3,9          9,4b6             -  =94             1096       -         346                     -           6446     -        17.802?
vENRim*A           78    *4.4   3,440       9,9?        589,9      -   --8 6                  104b'      -         28               -                  3862     17       29.507



-28 -
Annex1
Page 2 of 2
S                          iTAiaLSt0$     MEMT OOViUlIUl   ta                    a ti   2    i A   at  aCCJB             I           a            alCNtCMU     :RT a ;R  A      ao
I                     a10979MICM7) a 100UCATIS aEIMIOTUSA  a             C)      a (176) a (S)   I   (I)    aTtAa2M  aCIIC*F'ITAa    Ci)    a   (2)    1156011c   a Ci)  a
a                a            a       a             I                                      I       a           a         a           a                                  
I                     I  Cl)  a  (2)  a    C))    a       (4)     a    (1)       a  (6)   a (7)  a   6   (9)             a   (20)   a (1    1) a (2)a I))aC'
EATAIA *80 TUE FACIPIIC
0."2               66 1.O4o.G-    200       I.1          7.         11   46   I1     74        Se        G          21          .          67          3',       aS       &.6o
INDONESIA          SI   IO.Sb    320        2.2         9.)        T0   24    6      nb        go       41         17        1.":0         74          27       z6        3.70
KOREA              62    19.1k  2,636k    Y.*          20.6        14   14   St       6619               9         43        16.0          67          72        22       4.00
KMAAYSIA           66    16.1 b  2.50b    *.1           16.1       36   2o   u        73b      01        90        22        16.0          6?          72        2:       41.0po
PA?U  N6           61      1.0'    60       5.4         19.0       40   27  22       -         60        Ps&       311       25.0          35          1288      278       I-JO
PUILtPIKS Nu443                    6        2.6'        14.0       648-                5        4        61        II         7.1          69          is        '4      21.00
S1104101           SO0    2.4b  4.4620      2.7          6.7b      19   40   16      63        92        63         II        6.6          96          Ss        a         .oo
90o.012*2  ISL.                                         it02  4  66  gO  42   14   t0  Is      76        so        27        t0.S          40          202G21
IWAIM            62    49o"~              34          10.1       19    4   t0      i        lot        SS         It        9.1          44          4h         o       40
V*JUMU,TI          66      0.tb    -        6.1         21.1       61   27    4       13      its        Go        24        12.0          is          20        16       2.00
SWIM11 ASIA
~~~~ ~~~79    92.1b            90      1.11        20.216     12   a?   20       iib      611       --          3        1.6                      14        21        k.43
58WA1*             so      1.2      so      1.6         21.0       -         ---      10       122                 -         -                   --.         --      --
IN[DIA            177659.6         210      2.97        CM'        -         - -     36        76'                 41        -                         26'9     --        6.10'?
651AL              62    Is:0b    ISob    1.4         -              --               19       70        -          6               -                  21        23       1.70'
PAKISTAN           62    67.1b    itob    2.0           7.0        Is   20   24      22        so        42        30         1.9          14          21        is       ).00
=111. 201. MEAID*1 "0M6UtC
AI6UANISTAM  ~~77    11.5  --          1.7          .1.       4?   It   Is       12       1147      69         374      -             62           a        22b7      1.001P
AIOESIA            79    26. 1.2770         1.6v        12.1       34' 26' 21'   11            63V       41'       17         7.01         $1'         297       26       1.701
EGYPT              62    43.1'    610m    4.6'          7.9        I1' 15' 2's   44            71        608       34         9.68         83'         418       19      a7.00
038101t            76      9.1   4,140      2.6'        10.6b      17   24   21       -        97y       -          29b       6.2?         -           79bai     2lby    ii.8o47
15*8               79    16.9      -         .1.7'     14.1'?      -     -     -     10       101"      -          32*       -             -           44"x     24'       6.904.1
I3AQ               79    £2.6   2,710       4.341       6.941      -           -     -        1001                 28        -                         4141     29'       9.30'7
151L*N0            61       .4  4,40        6.147       it s.6      9                90        91        94        29        -.            e6l6                 2        11.00
.2020*6       62~~I  ':''b  I 42~0b    4.9w        10.2                         Jo44bS70  9'        Ss        32        11.1-49                             6        60
163*110            79      2.1      -Mess.6y                         --              -         966       -          19        -     -                  441       -       21.60'?
"amMOCC            Se      1.6b    670k    6.O7        22.9        96   41   19       15       170        9        it        21.1           -           W       36        S.IOt
OPANi              *5      I2   6,4i0b    3.2           12.7"      -     -     -     10bt      71"m    61'k         21'                    60          its       l4a      .
PORTUGAL1          66    10.:2b  I5l70     4.6          11.9       10   26   13      OD       1221       70        16        16.9          6O          is        16       6.00
ROKAI              i6    22.1   a,too      3.947        6.21       -     -     -     le       206b8     -          23b      -             go          e4ba      22b      10.60by
SPAIN              76    17.0   4:920       6.11        I6.61         -    -      -            94 - "by            -                       -           6747b     -       24.10by
YsiAt              i6     6.6   2170i    6.61           10.1       19   25   26       se       6747      60        354       --6                       4147     ;lb      22.60
TuNISIA            79     6.4   1,1)0       7.09,       19.0       42   19   to      956      l00"       60         job       2.6          10          30z      30        6.00
loaml              61     47.5  1,210       9.3         16.2       so   n2   24       7)4     110        77        11         6.0          11          26        it       6.00
lham  A.R.         64      9.46    S10b    7.69         it.?       so   20   It      8£'       15        2o         51       27.6          60           9       20        2.90
YEIa  1.0.9.       62      2.Ob    420b    7.6           9.7       63' 140   GA    13          61        14        21        22.0s         46          27       20        2.1
512614y  MO DEVLOPING CONYimSa
Nuberof Caantrlesa                        64              93      70  6967          at        92        66G       9           61            71          92        as      as
t8ame;                                    CIA4-          C).?-  (2)-C-  (1-(-    (6         Cli-      (22-       Cu7-        CI.4-         Clo-0-  (1 S-                 (0.01-
10.0)         94.1)  04)   46)  33)    99)        116)     99)         77)         67.0)         200)        64)      46)      29.0)
41aartiles: 1199.,                         9.6           21.7     S1   96   22      G1        Is        60        43          20            67          47        26       22.0
Radiant                        6.0           £6.1      611919t           51       83        61         Ss         13            61          26        22        3.7
Lowaer:                        3.0          212.0     19 2123           2s        40        Ss        26           9            40          24        is       2.0
Quattile DeVIStlooa                        1.1            5.4    6.1  7.5  4.5   19.0       19.0      23.9        7.0         1.6         23.1        26.1       3.5        1.0
Pto8.:                                     4.4           17.0      44 1926o          Ss       76        19        16          16            62          11        23       6.9
Steadard 0s,1.tioot                        1.9            6.7     11  to    I       a9        27        24        21          II            27          23         7        7.4
Medi8an                                    4.0           26.0     4326e19          4"         63        61        15          13            61          26        22       1.7
SYalILSa                                                                 O21YS
DAM126 OIVAIRAIIA                                             A * DAlIM 1111*10T  MM5 YVW                         S - HINIST'V 0f EDUCATION CNOR) ONLY
K1Y1JDE 6012 OR  CBL16165                                   a - DAM22 5061 MgcII  12*  "aE YEW                 T - NU2 AM0 STATE OOVEISUNT 0WLV
1    9*123 43uasnox85                                            a - CU6328T 1*101                                  W - IP31.26CElptaantTUI ONLY
&    ISCUM2JE  PART-TIM 61331                                       - IEn  1IOLUUM       Tt311                      I - INCLUDES 096R-AGt STUDENTS
P - O105  EPEOLUIUIT 64110                         I ' 12*015  SO3CES
501363         Colnema  I ead t  la r Saud ch0 Atlas Mf Ewegtio e goi   (iLdU eleass.
ColumSe 5 to 14a Mould lean g4datis, sector uleelom, Goerntment .mtc1*
86d/cu tbe liegc. Stctiettesl Yearbook.
Gaomattiwe Edecetim ate81  8n S  aeel le the evaeLS81is @4 veuteg  edoAi*tI@e        to   ad81Gm  ilyaie of ftuti,. st886" ad
daaereata"l developa    betcaus  vaIt.m iouMtsirn.  Howeer.u  an4 th       ne b @4so  the ptesae8  4*18. cr'Ot*0     empeculom
houfld be eppuoacbed with  .art coali..  De". pueemted to tbm ebove gable A,s beeg collected lnugply by Sek .lneloaa
from govoIGmi sources$ tim  comml.er eae sti astE         m    at1616    dou 1  fcs Oem.. ENtoIl have beus made to 3t8.48t411
detleitioosand. ulthtm lImto. to cbeckd meueEgy of tbm dots. 3.vwetblmlne.g 46c8 datew .till Imperfect la1
severl rnWeta mA6  tAm lack to .606190 to lepsoes tbm puqumgielvly   tim  o816610  at its optet.: l@    Nock.  to 146
a"e of tbse  dogte,tm  6o12.aie. qualifications ebwUl be bept to86d04,
(2)   *EUcmt2ce  M0 4sf 1ud to the table tmlaadg  eli oeducattm        d enttfl.i   beth forml sd am  -orml.
(2)    Isi60sya  education  aouter  to educettmn 81 th. firt" level. an4  60aedfl)'yedsacattaa caefes to all ed,ac*toa
81 tbe aeccodu  level uegslme of to, Ce.S.. *  mmmte. tecAlal". acudicataaul).
C))   U1.terey xae£e' (cal. 6) os. oftee obtsised tursom aitay ce.m*sm.  to ama  ONtstiLm  Ebey age @811
ePproatmastome med It 08 doubetmi fabt yw i1.soe daflatito. of 'lteu.te b beum folowIed camsteetly.



- 29 -
Annex_ 2
UGANDA
FOURH EDUCATION PQOJECT
Stucture of Fomnal Education
ITeewilcld3
God& nt'        1Inc        I MC
-    -~~1 *2  3            3 e1 2-EH2
e       SO V  Iucc'3
|Sdiotg ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~i j(1   ISe  2fcool2   3H ,3) a
16 7 18 19 NO 111 112   IS3  1t4          II? 118 l   t92  2l2 3
L    LI                            I    I      I        I I   I I IAr
I Nolim
'SsbiCawuustioGnasTC&
Naloa
an)tPU.C4onrSGdudw at#wuCYM d
(1) Mov roo*4E3hufa (E)
(2)    Cfdo lCooe d Education (UCE) -   blve
(3) U wdomdCl o@to Samiofl E - W bla
ternhid* - 424i*1



- 30 -
Anos x8
WMA~~~A 
RN- 1of 2
UAN
FOURTH EcnTIoN PROJECT
NWiber ot Schools bw District and Sli. to Receive Books !/
Tote l
Total       Iooted
MLdimu   Large   schools not   schools
Smoll     151 to     251     provlouswly  provlou*ly   Grand
No.  District          up to 160     250    uairde   aslsted        *ssisetd    Total
1.  Apec                  19        1C5.    20          72            152        224
2. Arus +                 -           10      -          10             -          10
3. Bundibugyo              7           2      -           9             -           9
4. Sushenyl               5C          43       4         102            -         102
6.  Oulu                  28          76       4         102            -         102
6. Hot"                   2C          65      12         SO              7        108
7. Ignge                  U           61 *     5         90             14        104
a. Jinja3                 10           a       8         21             -          21
9, Kebl-                  76          16       8         94             -          94
10. Kebarole              65          70.     40        165             10        175
11. Kapela/Ent.bbe         2           0       8          a              2          5
12. Kamull                26           9       7         44             -          44
13. Kepchorwe              1           9       7         11              0         17
14. Kass                  82          17       a         47              6         62
15. Ki#uu                 11          48     118         s0            117        177
1s. Kotdo                 10          16       0         20              8         28
17. Kuoi                   3          as o     2          8             a          G1
1. Lire                    1         129.    85          54            1ll        165
19. Luwero                20         6e  *    27         77            a8         112
20. Maseke                25          89      11         71              4         75
21. Moslndl               26          69 .    0          a8             62         96
22. Mbele                114          60      20         189             5        194
2n. Mbarre                12         141      s8        221             -         221
24. Moroto                21          8S .     2         27             81         58
2C. Moyo                   0           0       4          4             -           4
/ Not Including Srd IDA schools to benefit from the fIrst phoe of the
Textbook Fund.



- 31 -
MY& 2
Total       IooAd
Mdis     Large    schools not   schools
S_ll    151 to    251        previously   prsviously   Grand
No. District           up to 150     too   uinward*  insuateOd       assis1ed    Total
26 Mplt                  47           1 *    15         92             21        118
27. 1u1 nd                78          72 *    2         159              9        1i
2SlOMukono                a           74      $8        200             -         200
29 Nbbi                  1i           21       *         44             -          44
S0  Rakot a               41          15       2         so             -          s
81  Rukuni rl             92          2J       1        116             -         116
82. Srotti                01           6       S 6      119             70        1#6
88. Torsjo               01          148.    21         182             98        225
TOTAL                  1186         1780     611       2496           061        8877
* Data on 06rollmnt of loo   schools Incomplete; school. assumed to be mediu  size.
* Incomplote dot.



- 32 -
Annex 4
UGANDA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
BOOK SELECTION PROCEDURE IN THE HOE
The MOE produces lists of recommended books for use in primary and
secondary schools. The Inspectorate, in the normal course of its work,
monitors the use and suitability of books in schools. However, until the
arrival of IDA procured books in 1985 and 1986, these procedures were not in
full operation. Subject panels, consisting of representatives from
Examinations, the Inspectorate, teacher training, the National Curriculum
Development Centre and school teachers, evaluate books and report to the
Inspectorate. (Due to shortage of operating funds, only those subject
panels regarded as more important have been able to meet with any regularity
over the last few years).  The Inspectorate submits a list of recommended
books to the Procurement Sub-Comnitte. which has sectional representatives
(e.g. from Primary, Secondary, Teacher Education, Technical Education,
Education Technology, Higher Institutione, vets and prepares the final
lists (and quantities of books if the MOE is purchasing) and submits the
list to the Procurement Committee. The Permanent Secretary finally
authorizes the list of the Procurement Committee.
The list of books for the Fourth Education Project was prepared by
a special committee of the MOE and submitted to IDA by the Permanent
Secretary on May 1988, during project appraisal. It was revised once by the
committee and finally by the Minister of Education on Hay 27, 1988.



- 32a -
Annex 6
rP-, ot 10
UOANDA
FMIRI inRUT!w PRtOJECT
-S SELECTED BY TM NOE FOt
FOURTH EDUATIW PROJECT SCHOOLS
The MOE categorised book* Into three:
1. Absolutely ..o.til - I.e. core subject books
2. Very important
S. UseIul
UGANDAN LANGUACES
Clsu/   Supplied also
T.acher./    Under          Approx.
Title                     Author        Publisher   Llbrary       ard IDA        Quantity
1. Absolutely Eseentbal
A. Luganda
Muslel ne Nalul- 1        Neimbi      Longasn      P1           X            85,400
MusisI no Nalule 2                       *         P2           X            26,500
Kato naNakku    1                                  P1                        85,400
'               2 *         *            *         nP2                       26,500
*   *   *  8  *         *         Ps                        23,600
Amanya Amaganda s                                  T                          2,000
Engero Abiri                             *         T                          2,000
Siwa Muto Lugero                                   T                          2,000
B. Runyoro Rutoro
Kagab nma Oanura 1                                P1                         6,700
K.g.ba no Banura 2          -                      P2                         5,000
C. Lunyankol- Rukisn
Rutaro na Kwagoro 1                     *         P1         X              18,800
a                2                                 P2         X              10,000
9. Ate"s
Apio Kaadong 1                                     P1         X               4,600
Apio Keadong Kalpeperoke 2   *           *         P          x
X               8,400
Ok.llo andAkellol 1                      5                                    41,500



- 33 -
Annex 5
Pans 2 ot 10
Ondi Pt ODvvru               -               0           P1           X             5,200
Oedt PI Ovoru 2              -                           P2           X             8,900
F. Loo: Acholl
Apio t Ace                   -                           P1           X             4,500
Apiyo B  Acn 2               -                           P2           X             8,400
0. Lwo: Lanme
Lang. 1                                                  Pi           X             4,500
Lang9  2                                                 P2           X             8.400
2. Vs" Imortant:
Luganda
Ebitontom oeby'edda        Mukass                        P1                        17,700
NJ iz Okusa_   1           Walusimbi                     P1                        17,700
* *         2              *                           P2                        18,800
*     *    8               *                           Ps                        11,800
ENLISH LAMOWOE
1. Absolutely Essential
Ugandb Primary English
course, T     ar and 2,
Pr rading                  NCDC           Longpn         P1                        73,600
Prm ary 1, Term S            *                           P1                        78,600
Primary 2                                                P2                        55,200
Primary 8                                                P8                        49,100
Book I                                                   T                          8,900
Book 2*                                                  T                          8,900
Book*                                        *           T                          8,900
Junior L-agilh
Composition & Grams_r
J.A. Bright   Longun         P7            X            24,600
Nbr Oxtord Englils
Courso                     F.. French    OUP             P4           X            48,000
(Uganda) Pupils
Sooa



- 34-
Annex 5
Piii..Fot 10
Nile En slohE
Cours  k 5                HOE                          Ps           X            J4,CO
Nile English Cour
Puptle sk k               MOE               *          Ps           X            J0,700
Nil* Engli h Coure
PupIlo 8k i               MOE               *          P7           X            24,600
Now Oxford Engli h
Cours Tosewrs
Book a                    FPG. French   OUP            T            X             8,900
Nile Engl oh
Course Teachers
Bk                        M MOE                        T            X             J,900
Nile Englisb
Couroe Tsehors
Book                        *                          T            X             3,900
Nile Engilb
Course Teacherr
Book 7*                                                T            X             8,900
2. Very Important
English Comprehension
Exercise Pupils
Book 1                    Hoyle A Hoylo Evans          Ps           X            24,600
English Conprehenslon
Pupils Exercise Book 2      *                          P4           X            21,600
English Comprehension
Pupils Exercise
Book 8                                                 Ps           X            16,400
English Couprehenoion
Exerelos Pupils  k kG                                 P6, P7       X            15,400
Evans Reoder Stag. 1:
Skipping rope             Evans Bros. Ltd.             P2           X            27,600
Ole and the Ball            *                                       X            276,00
Bee-Baa                     *                                                    27,600
James and his licycl*                                               X            27,600
Evans Readers Stam e :
Yro and the Python        Evan Bros. Ltd               PS           X            24,600
The kind llrefly           *                                       X            24,600
The leos *ering                                                     X            24,600
The rste and th dog                                                 X            24,600



- 35 -
Annex 5
Poi-ef 10
Evans Readers St.. III:
The Crocodile who likes
stories                   *                           P4           X            21,500
The Kite                                                             X            21,SOO
Evans R -satrs Stane IV:
Kotfa'm firat flight        *                           PS           X            18,400
The dancing plates and
*poon                     *                                        r            13,400
The bad fairy and the
caterpillar               *                                        X            13,400
Evans Readers Stem V-
Kip olves to the city                                   Fe           X            15,400
The mtling girtl            *                                        X            16,400
Johnny goes to England                                               X            15,400
Evans Reader St oe VI:
Kip at the coast                                        P7           X            12,800
Ibn Battu                   *                                        x            12,800
Tho bird *oman              *                                        X            12,300
Tul Lliku  nd the demons                                             X            12,800
MoNsO                     Kimenyo 8       WP            P6-?7                     16,400
osoe and the ghost          *                                                     18,400
Mose and the idnapper.    *                                                       18,400
Moses nd Mlidrd*                                                                  18,400
Mos  In a muddl- I                          *             *                       18,400
Mos  and the penpal         *                                                     18,400
Vose  In trouble                                                                 l,400
Monse on the move           *               *                                     18,400
Noss the Camer              *               *                                     18,400
Mose and the raffle         *               *                                     18,400
Mose and the school
farm                      *               *                                     18,400
PACE Pupils Bk 5          MOE                           PS                        18,400
PACE pupils Bk              3 *                         Ps                        16,400
PACE pupils k7 7                                        P7                        12,300
PACE teacher Bk 5                                       T                          8,400
*       *  BkO6            *               *           T                          8,400
*       * Bk 7                                         T                          8,400



- 36 -
Annex 5
P S t 10
Rhymes for spch and
Action (lUlivsity of
Ldon FrPes) pupil.
Booko:                    Achumn        Hodder and
Stoughton     P2-P        K            27,600
Book 2                                                P4          X            21,500
Teachers Cook                                         T           X             8,400
Baste Oxford
Engis h Dictionary         *            OW            PS-P7       X            46,100
S. UsefuI
scIallon'e Jutlor
Illustrated Dictionary                  Macmillan     L           X             9,600
Poems and Rhymes
to  njoy                 JjIA A.W          *          L                         9,600
A Chi ld'e book ot
African poery            Verne Ardm        *          L                         9,600
Bring the rain to
Kapitiplain                -                          L                         9,600
The big tall tree        Ousnda Black  Macmillan      L                         9,600
Bsic Primry
Uath.msttcs
puatlo Book 1            NCoc           Lonimn        P1          X            73,600
2               *                         P2           X           65,200
*        8               9                          Ps          x            49,100
*        4               *               *          P4          X            48,000
*        4               *               *          P5          X            36,600
*        6                               *          Ps          X            30,700
7                                         P7           X           24,600
Basc Primry
Vathematics
Teachers Book 1          NCDC           Lenpan        T           X             8,900
*          2             *                          T           X             3,900
*          8             *               *          T           X             8,900
*          4             *                          T           X             89000
5 6                                     T            X            3,900
*          6                             *          T           X             3,a00
*          w7            3                          T           X             3,s00



- 37 -
Annex 5
2.  Y    nt
Oxford Primry Math.
Pupil- Book Ib                    yzi       t                                    80,900
*                                    5          Pt           27,6000
*        ;                *               * ~a                    24,S00
*        4                *                          P4           n  g
Tachore Book I            Abdo Kayizzi  OIP            T                          8,400
*          2              *              *           T                          8,400
I   *      a              *                          T                          8,400
*          4              *                          T                          8,400
Basc Prlmry Sctence
Cours for Uganda
Book 1                     COC           Loan          P1                        ?8,600
2                                                   P2                       55,200
* a                                       *          PS                        49,100
*4                        *              *           P4                        4,*000
'5                       3UPs                                                86,M
*6                                                   P6                        80,700
*                                      0 *                                  24,600
B"ic Primry Sclenco
Course Teachers Reference
Vol. I Primry   and 2    NCMC            Longn         T                          7,600
Vol. t Primary   and 4      *                          T                          7,00
Vol. II Primry 6-7                                     T                         11,700
Basic Science and Helth
Education for Prtmry
Schools In Uganda Teacher
Ouido for PS-?             NICEF/Mln.Ed.   *           T                         11,700
School Gardening and
Agriculture               P. Shanks      W1P           T                         11,700
here there Is no doctor
(A vIllag health care
mnual)                    W_nr D.        Mail l n    T                          8,900
A handbook for physical
education                 Cowards A Lan Evans          T                          8,900



-38 -
Annoex 5
P 9 r o 10
A guide to health
education for prlary
teacbhers                 olubt         Evans          T           X             3,900
Teaching prlmry science   R.L. Young    Lo_ns          T                         8,900
Happy health chldren     J. Hampton    Vacmll an       T                         *,900
Primry health educ.       S. Young
& S. Durstous  Longan       T                          8,900
Primry school helth
pulil book for yr. C      UMtCEF/NCDC                 Ps                        3,000
yr. 6                                  PS                       30,700
yr. 7       *                          P7                        4.600
2. Very Important
Junior Science Series:
MagnIet A Eloctricity       -           Ladybird       L           X            12,J00
Light                        *                         L           X            12,300
Air                         -                          L           X            12,300
Simple mechnic              -                          L           X            12,800
Your body                   -                          L           X            12,800
Anlmis of the World         -                          L           X            12,800
Afrlcan Mammalo                                        L           X            12,300
Teeo"                                                  L           X            12,00
Fruit                                                  L           X            12,dOO
Energy                                    *            L           X            12,800
Social Studim
Pupilo Bk 1               NCDC          Macmillan      P1                       78,600
*      2                  *              *          P2                       C5,200
*      S                  *              *          PS                        49,100
*      4                  * 4                       P4                        4B,000
*      5                                 a          PS                        86,600
*      6                                            P Ps                      80,700
*      7                  *              *          P7                        24,600



-39-                                   Annex 5
rrIery Social
Studies .tl..
for Upados                                             PT                        24,600
A buJrded y    aurs.
Uq105         7 hloy      Sekaws         Longn.n       T            X             J,9QO
issi-relosT  soc
2               P. Whelan         *T                                    8,9000
8               Syllbus Ponsl   *           T            X              .9D00
Afelcan World
History from
1500 to n                 Lugumbs           *          T            X            8,900
African World
rnstroy - Earliest
tim to 1600               Sukn r J.C.                  T            X             8,900
Uganda Oographies
Book  1u o                Baryaruba                    T                            9DO
and couty                                                                         8,9000
9   2    --                            ~~~~~~~~T 89000
Juntor Sel-ne* Series:
Stone Age Man                            Ladybird      L            X            12,800
David Livingston                            *          L            X            12,800
ACRICULTtURE
i. Absolutely ftl ntill
Beginning A rtcultur        ?Letln                     P4X4t°o
2        1                           P5          K            86,9000
*               8                        *           Pe           X            30,700
*               4                         *          P7           X            24,600



-      40 -                        Anne n
pi 99ot 10
Selsm. Teachers           1g"Inlmg Agriculture
Sook 1                                   MactlIn       T            X             5,600
*'2                                       *          T            X             8,00
*5 $                                      *T                      X             5,g00
*4                                                   T            X             *,900
Christian. and the
Holy Spirlt               Slster Rachl Ugnd Joint
ODgna eto. *I Chriettan C. P7                         12,800
Christiamn Dlsover
00d6 love, Tiacbers I    Ugand Joint
Christlan Council            T                         8,400
Chroitians Live
together In Go's
Family              2                                  T                          8,400
Chrsotiats grow In
Jeus                8                                  T                          8,400
*                 4                                  T                          5,400
Christian  on the Way                                  T                          5,400
Chrietians and the
Holy Spirit         7    Sr. R. Dagnais
S*t.a                        T                         5,400
slamlc Rolglious
Education for Primry
Schools
Books 1-7 (pupils)                                     Pi                         0,00
Pt2                       6,00
Ps                        6,00
slamic Pub.  P4                         0,600
Ps                        6,600
Ps                        8 @000
PT                        6,00



- 41 -
Annex 5
Pan. 10  ot 10
To*che Companion                               T,40
Music Making              Burakogf W.   Universal
Edition       T            X            3,400
Sing Around               WIl on        ow             T           X             8,430
Folk Sigt Sing1ng Bk 1   Crowo                         T           X             8,400
8    ~  '    Sk 2      a                          T            K            8,400
Brown al                  Lolvin                       T           X             8,400
A gradud music I          Warbuton      Lonrpn         T           X             8,400
2            a                          T            X            8,400
Art Education             WebbE. B.      aneiman.      T           K             8,400
Kenya
Totals - Teachers' book*      261,900
Pupils' books       8,074,200
All                  ,326,100
Approximate cost par school-    1,892 l



- 42 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
TEXTBOOKS IN CORE SUBJECTS FOR THE PILOT SCHEME
FOR THE TEXTBOOK REVOLVING FUND
Titles and Quantities for the 800 Schools
Core subject utop-upu books were selected from the Ministry of Education's
official textbooks list in category one, 'absolutely essential', only.
1. Uganda Languages:
Assume a different language in each of the 4 districts to be
selected for the first phase and 200 schools in each district.
Quantity
Total books P1 (1 title for each language)          28,800
Total books P2 (1 title for each language)          21,600
2. English Language:
Ugandan Primary English Course -
Pre-reaGing, terms 1 and 2                          28,800
Primary 1, term 3                                   28,800
Primary 2                                           21,600
Primary 3                                           19,200
New Oxford English Course Book 3                    16,800
Nile English Book 5                                 14,400
Nile English Book 6                                 12,000
Nile English Book 7                                  9,600
Teachers' Books (P1-7), 800 copies of each           5,600
(matching pupil's books)
3. Mathematics:
Basic Primary Maths Book 1                          28,800
2                         21,600
3                         19,200
4                         16,800
5                         14,400
6                         12,000
7                          9,600
Teachers' books (P1-7), 800 copies of each           5,600
(matching pupils' books)



- 43 -                           Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
4. Health and Science
Priaary Health PS                                    14,400
* P6                                    12,000
3 "  * P7                                  9,600
Teachers Books (P5-7)                                   800
Basic Primary Science Book 1                         28,800
*  3              ~~~~~2 21,600
*   *   *         3                        19,200
*      *       *         4                        16,800
Basic Priw.ry Science 5                              14,400
6                             12,000
*      .       a    7                              9,600
Teachers' books (P1-7), 800 of each                   5,600
(matching pupil-s' books)
5. Social Studies:
Social Studies Book 1                                28,800
*      a      *  2                                21,600
3                               19,200
a  a   a  4                                16,800
* a    a  5                                14,400
*      '   6                               12,000
*      a      a   7                                9,600
Total - Teachers' books        -                     17,600
Pupils' books                              583,200
All cos                                    600,800
Approximate cost per school   -1,558$



- 44 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 10
UG*A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PILOT SCHUEM FOR ESTABLISHING TEXTBOOK TRUST FUND
Creation of Revolvin8 Fund for Renewal of Primary School Core Textbooks
Background
The Third IDA Project provided 5,200 primary schools in Uganda
with pupils' books and teachers' books in 1985 and 1986. The Fourth
Education Project aims to continue the provision to approximately 3,400
schools. The majority did not receive books in the Third Education
Project, but about 800 schools had received books but lost them when
the schools were looted during the 1984-85 civil war.
It is reported that enrollments have disproportionately
increased in the Third IDA Project schools because of the availability
of books. It was noted that: (a) new schools needed large parental and
community contributions if they were ever to have facilities comparable
to those of older established schools: and (b) poorer parents were
forced to remove their children from "first-world' schools (where books
were available and the facilities were reasonable but where they were
expacted to pay more to the school/PTA funds) to *third-world  schools
(where PTA fees are lower and the schools have far less teaching
materials). Results in the primary school-leavint, exam revealed that
students in the first-worldw schools in the Kamp:la area are
performing better than those in the "third-world* schools. Shortage of
foreign exchange prevents the entry of sufficient books or paper into
Uganda to satisfy demand. Schools and individual parents who are
financially better off are forced to buy books from the *verandah
(i.e. secondhand books some some of which are not the recommended books
and some are not suitable for primary schools) at exorbitant prices
(e.g. 5,000 Sh. for a dictionary, 1,200 Sh. for an English textbook or
an atlas).
Some urban schools appeared to have systems, management and
control of the funds contributed by parents through the school PTA.
However, it was reported that only 60-752 of parents paid into the PTA



- 45 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 10
fund as it was a voluntary, rather than an officisl MOE requirement.
The majority of schools are rural and in these schools PTAs were not as
successful as the urban schools in the collection and management of
parental and conmunity contributions. There is no national, regional
or even district organization of PTAst they are wholly based on
individual schools.
Obiective of Revolving Fund
In order to ensure a continuous supply of textbooks the
Government plans to create a revolving fund (to be known as Textbook
Fund) to be used exclusively for replenishing primary schools with
textbooks and teacher guides. The Fund, which would be built up
through contributions from parents and from Government, would enable
the MOE to buy books in bulk and thus to benefit from quantity
discounts through the economies of scale.
Description
The Textbook Fund (TF) would hive its own exclusive account at
a commercial bank which would be interest-bearing. The TF and its
account would be managed by a Textbook Supply Unit (TSU) in the Project
Implementation Unit in the MOE. Authority to draw on the account would
come from a Board of Trustees, comprising three MOE officials
(Permanent Secretary, Manager of the TSU and the TF accountant) and two
representatives of parents who would be appointed annually by the
Minister of Education. The parents' representatives would be drawn
from those able to visit Kampala when necessary and they would increase
the confidence of parents in the TF.
The TF would be built up through contributions from both
parents and Government on a cost-sharing basis. The principle for
calculating the share to be paid by parents is that of affordability
rather than the cost of book supplys the amount to be paid by parents
should be within their means so that the TF could achieve a high level
of contribution. Present estimates are that 300 Sh. per pupil per year
mwusd be affordable.  The Government share would be calculated from an
assessment of book needs and costs (for both pupils' and teachers'
books) over a period of several years, so that the Government would
give assurances that it would pay the necessary amounts each year for
the planned period. As a minimum, the Governnent's contribution is
expected to match that of parents.



- 46 -
Annex 7
Poge 3 of 10
The MOE textbook policy would be to provide the first supply
of books free of charge to schools through the assistance of the Third
and Fourth IDA rrojects. Subsequent supply of additional or *top-up
books (to replace lost or damaged books or to cover increased
enrollment) would be paid for by parents on a cost-sharing basis.
Those schools which received books under the Third IDA Project would be
eligible to pay if Otop-upe books were supplied to them.
Under the pilot project, various mechanisms for the operation
of the Fund Including collection of fees (e.g. regular DEO channel,
PTA, NGO, etc.), levels or cost-sharing, etc., would be tested to
determine the simplest and most efficient set up. A consultant would
be provided to help initiate the pilot scheme and to monitor its
progress periodically.
The TF account would be totally separate from both the
District Education accounts and the central Government Treasury
account. The Government contribution which would cover the payments of
those exempted from the TF fee as well as the funding gap between needs
and parental contribution would be guaranteed to be available annually
for the book ordering period. The Bank of Uganda has branches in
virtually all districts of the country.
The TSU would estimate national book needs in the core
subjects over a period which corresponded to the average life of a
pupil's textbook (usually estimated at three years but limited
observation of Ugandan schools suggests that four years may be
realistic). The plan would set out annual needs over the four-year
period in terms of book titles, quantity and estimated costs.
Quantities of pupils' books would for the tine being be calculated on
the basis of one book for two pupils (or, if necessary, for three
pupils) to ensure that the financial burden etther on parents or on
Government is manageable. Before the beginning of each fiscal year
(approximately May), the TSU would advise the Permanent Secretary of
the requirement for foreign exchange conversion of some of the
shillings in the TF for the coming year (i.e. seven months before the
beginning of the school year in January). Orders for textbooks would
be placed by the TSU once per year, as soon as the Ministry of Finance
approves the allocation of foreign exchange. This would then give time
for books to be reprinted and available for the new school year.



- 47 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 10
Phases of Implementation
The TF and its related systems and structure would be
implemented over several years and in three phases. The first phase
would be accomplished in the Fourth Education Project.
First Phase Implementation
Period covered: 1989-1991, Fourth Education Project
Schools involved: approximately 800 in total, from four
districts (one in each of the former regions - East,
North, Central and West). These schools would have
received books under the Third IDA Project and would not
therefore be eligible to receive books under the Fourth
Education Project if they were not part of the first
phase of the TF.
Selection of 4 districts: apart from the need for the
districts to correspond to the former regions, the districts would be
selected by a special MOE committee. One method for starting the
selection would be to invite districts to offer to participate; books
are so valued that many districts would appreciate being able to have
more books even if they had to pay. From the list of interested
districts, the committee would then make its selection. Each of the
four districts would therefore have three groups of schools: (a)
schools which received books under the Third Education Project (and
still have them), which will receive "top-up, books under the Fourth
Education Project and will pay into the TF from 1989; (b) those that
either received no books under the Third Education Project or which
received them but got looted and will receive "first supply" books
under the Fourth Education Project free of charge; and (c) those that
have received and will receive nothing either because they are very new
or because they are private.
Book needs for first phaset approximately 800 schools (or
about lOZ of the total number of primary schools in 1988)
which had received books in the Third Education Project
in four districts would receive 'top-upw books. Books
were last received by these schools in 1985 and, mainly,
in 1986. This means that by the time this 'first phase'



- 48 -
Annex 7
Page 5 of 10
in the Fourth IDA Project starts (mid-1989), the books already received
will be at least three years old. From limited information while the
appraisal mission was in Uganda in May 1988, the impression was given
that the books could be usable for another 2-3 years and that (apart
from schools looted during the war) very few books had been lost or
destroyed.
The concept of *top-up  books is replacement of worn-out and
lost books and supply of additional books to cover increases in
enrollment. Ideally, top-up books should be supplied annually in order
to give parents confidence in the system by receiving new books
annually as a result of their contributions and to maintain the target
book-pupil ratio. However, at least in the first years of
implementation of the Revolving Fund, the second round of resupply
would be 3 years after the first round, i.e. not until 1992, because of
the organizational and operational complexities during the start-up
phase of a system before the steady state is achieved. Therefore,
enough booka should be supplied to the 800 schools to cover three
years' future need. The problem in achieving this in Uganda lies in
the lack of enrollment projections because of the effects of the war,
population movements and the return and resettlement of refugees.
Therefore, for the first top-up" of the 800 schools the same
calculation will be used to determine the books required as is being
used for the 3,400 schools which are receiving books under the Fourth
IDA Project. The rationale is that the previous books supplied (under
IDA III) will be approaching the end of their life, enrollments have
increased and some of the books to be supplied in the Fourth Education
Project have superceded those in the Third IDA Project.
School size of the 800 schools: the assumption for
planning and budgeting of the first phase of the TF
implementation is that the 800 schools to receive atop-
up* books are all large schools (more than 250 pupils).
It is reported that the schools which benefitted under
the Third IDA Project tended to be the larger schools and
that, subsequently, more pupils enrolled in these schools
because they had books.
Preparation for the fist phase: districts would be
selected by the MOE committee by October 1988. From
September - December 1988 the MOE would conduct a
publicity campaign by radio and through the DEOs, RCs,



- 49 -
Annex 7
Page 6 of 10
PTAs, etc., supported by MOE leaflets and in the target 800 schools.
Parents would be informed that their contribution was assisting in
providing continuity in the supply of core subject textbooks and that
the Government was also contributing; and that the TF would be
generalized to the whole nation in three years, time if all went well
during the first phase. The assistance of the PTAs and RCs would be
sought in getting as may parents as possible to pay the TF fee and in
monitoring the accuracy of the official payment record of the school, a
copy of which would be kept by the DEO. By November 1988 the bank
account would be established and the documents for operating the TF
completed. Documents necessary are the paperwork system for accounting
and control, printed deposit receipts for parents and headteachers,
information charts for the DEOs to show them which schools in their
districts had fallen short on the expected contribution and the
drafting of the exclusive conditions of use of the TF account and
appointment of the Trustees.
To assist the MOE in both the publicity campaign and in
launching the pilot scheme, the project would provide a consultant in
September-October 1988. The consultant together with experienced staff
from the HOE to be designated by Government would design the pilot
scheme, identifying specific issues that need so be tested, and launch
the scheme. He would assist the country periodically to monitor the
pilot scheme.
During the pilot phase, the project accountant would also
handle the TF accounts. Similarly, during the pilot phase, either the
Deputy Director of the PIU (to be appointed) or the Project Advisor (a
technical assistance staff currently on post) will serve as Director of
the TSU. However a separate accountant and TSU Manager will have to be
appointed, perhaps during the second phase.
Structure of the TSU: the TSU would be formed from the
distribution unit of the Project Implementation Unit in
the MOE. Its organization for the Fourth Education
Project/first phase of the TF would be:



- 50-
Annex 7
Page 7 of 10
PIU Director
Advisor*                             Deputy Director*
(technical                           (local post to be
assistance, in post)                 filled)
.PU &  TF Accountant            2 Distribution
(technical                     Officers (in
assistance, in post)            post)
*Deputy Director or Advisor to
act as TSU Manager
Delivery of books: delivery of "top-up, books to the 800
TF schools would be effected in the same way and at the
same time as the delivery of books to the 3,400 schools
in the Fourth IDA Project. Individual school allocations
will therefore be packed outside Uganda and delivered in
containers direct to each district for the DEO and the RC
to organize delivery to each school. However, it is
important that the DEOs deliver first to the TF schools.
Payment of parental contributions: payment of the
suggested 300 Sh. per pupil would be required from the
beginning of the school year (in the same way as the
school fee is required), even though it is estimated that
the books will not reach Uganda until July 1989. The
rationale is that parents should see a connection between
their payment and the receipt of *top-up books.



- 51 -
Annex 7
Page 8 of 10
Monitoring: the TSU would monitor the first phase in
order to identify weak points and remedy actual and
potential difficulties before generalization of the TF to
all schools. Towards the end of 1990, the TSU would
prepare a report on the two years' operations of the TTF
and make recommendations to Government for a permanent
and national system. A follow-up report one year later
in 1991 would be made just before generalization of the
system in 1992, to be implemented if deemed feasible,
possibly with the assistance of a fifth IDA education
project.
For both of the monitoring reports, technical assistance would
be provided by the project, preferably in short (3-4 weeks)
installments spread out over one to two years.
The annual audit of the TF would be made entirely separately
from the audit of the PIU.
Planning needs for books and foreign exchange: during
this first phase of the TF under the Fourth IDA Project,
there will be no foreign exchange requirement for the TF
from the Government and the Project will have provided
for book needs until the end of 1991. In order to begin
the second phase of the TF, however, the TSU must plan
its book needs and costs for a 3-4 year period and
present its plans and requirement for foreign exchange in
May 1991 to the Ministry of Finance. To assist it, the
project would provide technical assistance for book needs
planning and financial and foreign exchange planning; two
consultants (a TSU manager and a financial planner) would
overlap their work from April-May 1991.
Second phase implementation
This would take place after the end of the 4th Education Project, from
the beginning of 1992 until 1994 approximately. The aim would be to
generalize the TF system to all primary schools from school year 1992,
using the experience gained in the first phase. In order to do this a
large number of textbooks would be needed to cover approximately 7,800
schools joining the system (made up of the remaining 4,400 3rd
Education Project schools which did not receive books in the 4th
Education Project, i.e. they were included in the first phase of the
TF) and the 3,400 4th Education Project schools.



- 52 -
Annex 7
Page 9 of 10
The TF and Government contribution would not yet be sufficiently large
to provide 7,800 schools with "top-up' books, the cost of which at
present rates would be as followss
Size of school    Approx cost/school   Z of each    Cost in USS for
(US$)         school size    X of 7800 schools
Small               520                 35           1.274 000
Medium            1,040                 50           3,640 000
large             1,558                 15           1,635 900
All                                   100           6,549,900
In addition further "top-up, books would be required for the 800 first
phast. TF schools. Since all of these were assumed to be large, a
further $1.25 million should be added, making a total *top-up, books
requirement of $7.8 million. New schools which have appeared by 1992
would need free *first-supply' books.
The state of the pilot TP, without the Government contribution, would
after the first three years be:
Year     TTF      Estimated    No schools    Total Fees  Total Cost
Contrib.  pupils                     (Million    ($ Million) of
per school                   Shilling)  book purchase
1989     300 Sh      300            800          72           1.25
1990                                             72
1991                                             72
Total fee: 216
1992                                                          1.37



- 53 -
Annex 7
Page 10 of 10
In view of expected price increases locally and abroad during this
period (see para 3.03), the buying power in foreign exchange of the
amount accumulated 'n the TV, even after taking interest rates into
account, would be less than needed to buy the necessary textbooks.
Parents contributions would therefore need to be supplemented by
Government contributions.
In order to carry out the second phase of the TF implementation,
external assistance is likely to be sought again for a part of the
funding requirement. By the second phase, conditions in Uganda may
allow consolidation of books to be done in Kampala, at the Kyambogo
store, and then books delivered in school allocations to the districts.
Districts would then be required to identify permanent book stores and
staff.
Third phase implementation
This is tentatively estimated as from 1995 and is the final form of the
TF system. However, this depends greatly on the success of the first
phase (i.e. the 4th Education Project) and the second phase (probably a
further Project). This phase would generalize the TTF to all the
schools. This third phase would devolve consolidation of each school's
requirements to the districts and would thus allow greater control of
the match between the amount collected by a school for the TTF and the
books received as a result.



- 54 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 6
UGAD
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROPOSED TOPICS FOR PU-INVESTMENT STUDIES
Backsground
1.       In December 1987, the Government of Uganda requested from the
International Development Association (IDA) an advance of US$310,000
under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in order to finance
certain expenditures to undertake the preparation of this Fourth
Education Project. This includes (a) continuation of the technical
assist-sace personnel hired under the Third Project to assist in project
preparation; and (b) assistance to the Education Policy Review
Commission in finalizing its recomuendations and working out a strategy
for their implementation. A Fifth Education Project will hopefully
assist the Government to implement agreed policy, strategy, and
administrative measures recormended by the Education Policy Review
Co'mmission. In addition, during appraisal of this Fourth Project,
Government and the mission further identified a number of pre-
Investment studies to be undertaken and financed. For their
implementation it is suggested that in the selection of consultants a
number of highly qualified overseas Ugandans could be considered to be
employed. This suggestion fits very well with the government's
intention to encourage these qualified and experienced compatriots to
return to Uganda. The global content of these studies and the required
profile of the consultants are summarized in the following paragraphs.
Financing and Efficiency of Education
2.       In 1984, Unesco undertook a study of education financing to
review sources and uses of financial resources (including private
contributions) in order to come to a comprehensive system of education
financing. The study concluded that domestic resources for education,
Governmental and private, be increased, and further that cost
effecL veness measures be applied. The study was of significance in
the preparation of further studies undertaken by World Bank Staff at
the request of the Government of Uganda. The first dealt with the
financial feasibility of universal primary education,



- 55 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
whilst the second attempted to underscore the need for efficiency in
view of the shortage of the resources available, and the necessity to
improve the utilization and management of these resources. The
proposals of the Education Policy Review Coumission will have
financial implications which may affect drastically the financing of
the total education system. Therefore a new financial study is
indispensable to review the recomendations of the above studies in the
light of the proposals of the Policy Review Commission, and to propose
a viable financing system to assure the future development of the
education system, without having to rely heavily on external
assistance. The profij.e of the consultant will be that of an
educational economist with-a strong financial background, preferably
with great experience in minagement information systems and training.
Excellent knowledge of English is indispensable, whilst knowledge of
one or more vernacular languages will be considered an asset. This
study may be conducted separately from, or jointly with, some of the
studies listed in para 8.
Analysis of Civil Service Census (MOE)
3.       In July 1987 the Government of Uganda undertook a census of
its civil service to be able to formulate and implement measures aimed
at improving the performance of the Government Administration through
better employment conditions, management and planning. This census was
carried out within the framework of the ongoing National Manpower
Survey which is expected to provide a picture of the manpower situation
in all sectors of the Ugandan economy, and serve as a basis for
planning and policy making in this respect. The Civil Service Census
is a rich source of information however unexploited. The Ministry of
Education, the largest employer within the Civil Service with more than
one third of the available manpower, needs to make more rational use
of its manpower.  To that intent, two studies are required; (a) the
first would determine the causes ofthe discrepancies between the
actual numbers employed and numbers paid and propose measures and an
action plan to eliminate discrepancies between the two sets of numbers;
(b) the second study would examine the present structure and functions
of MOE, its relations with the Ministry of Local Government, and
regional and district education offices and recommuend ways and means
for clarifying and strengthening the relationships among the various
department, including the Project Implementation Unit (PhU). The
profile of the consultant will be that of an organization and
management specialist with strong economic, financial and educational
administration background. Excellent knowledge of English is
indispensable.



- 56 -
Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
Feasibility Study on Local Textbook Publishing and Printznit
4.       The World Bank in the 3rd Education Project provided textbook,
library books and teacher guides to all levels of the Uganda
educational system in order to rehabilitate the system. The 4th
Education Project will continue the rehabilitation of more primary
schools and will establish a revolving fund for renewing textbooks in
primary schools. The Fund will be financed by the contributions from
parents and from Government and will have planned access to foreign
exchange through the Ministry of Firance   Thus funding should become
available to replace old books and to cater for increases in school
enrollment in primary schools. The great majority of books for Ugandan
schools are written by Ugandan authors for t#e primary level and
printed outside the country. Publishers are British or Kenyan and
printing is often carried out in low-cost manufacturing centers.
Tne National Curriculum Development Center is the MOE unit responsible
for revising existing or creating new syllabuses at preschool, primary.
secondary and tertiary (other than university) levels, for drafting
curriculum materials such as textbooks and teachers' manuals, for
devising examination questions and drafting examination syllabuses and
for carrying out research and evaluation. The NCDC has written or is
completing primary school pupils' courses and teachers; guides in
science, English language, mathematics and social studies. These
courses are all being published by British publishers.
NCDC had a small printing unit iwhich was used to manufacture
syllabuses, trial editions of books and teachers' manuals. The unit
was severely damaged during the war of 1985.
A few local commercial publishers (e.g. Uganda Bookshops) and printers
are active in Uganda. But these local companies have to contend with
shortages of foreign exchange, a high parallel market exchange rate,
unfavorable import taxes (there are no duties on imported books but
du%.es are paid on the materials needed for the manufacture of books),
and lack of access to credit as necessary to finance rehabilitation of
their plant or training of their staff.
The objective of this coasultancy on pnblishing and printing in Uganda
is to investigate the cost-effectiveness, quality, reliability and
speed of local publishing and of local printing in comparison with
alternatives abroad with special reference to the needs of the NCDC and
those of the MOE for the provision of cheap and appropriate educational
books.



- 57 -
Annex 8
Page 4 of 6
5.       Tasks
a.   To evaluate the capacity, prices, quality, reliability,
convenience and speed of local printers in comparison
with international printing for a Ugandan client.
b. To evaluate the NCDC's capacity to print its own
materials, taking into account costs, staff, quality,
timetables, and to estimate and describe its future needs
for printed materials. Reference should also be made to
the clients for NCDC publications (e.g. the MOE) and
their budgets and requirements.
c.   Prom the point of view of costs, speed and convenience,
to assess whether some or all of the NCDC's needs for
printed materials could be satisfied in Uganda or outside
the country and whether the NCDC should be strengthened
to produce certain documents.
d.  To analyse the advantages and disadvantages of the NCDC
continuing to publish educational books with foreign
publishers, of the NCDC publishing with local publishers
or of the NCDC publishing by itself.
e.  To advise on the contractual and copyright position of
books which the NCDC wishes to publish or reprint.
f. To draw up costed and timetable recoamendations and
alternatives for the NCDC's future publishing and
printing requirements, covering equipment, training,
staff, organization, premises, technical assistance and
recurrent costs.
6.       Qualifications of consultant.  Since the study calls for both
publishing and printing expertise, two consultants will probably be
necessary.
Publishing consultants Extensive knowledge of and experience gained in
educational publishing, understanding of contractual issues, experience
of analyzing publishing infrastructure in developing countries for
designing projects for aid financing.
-f



- 58 -
Annex 8
Page 5 of 6
Printing consultants Extensive knowledge and experience of the
international printing market, expetience of evaluating printing
resources in developing countries, facility in producing cost
comparisons and printing alternatives, experience of designing projects
for aid funding.
Feasibility Study on Water Provision to Rural Primary Schools
7.       Water supply to rural primary schools has always been a
problem, yet water is an indispensable utility in these schools, and
not in the least from an educational point of view.  Proper use of
water is an essential element in the teaching of hygiene in general and
at home.  It may have a beneficial effect on the health of the children
and therefore on the enhancement of their school performance.  The
recommendations of studies aade in this respect are mostly of a
theoretical nature, and seldom lead to practical application or a pilot
experiment. The intended study should therefore propose lasting and
practical solutions to the indicated water supply problem, in
particular when electrical power is absent.  The profile of the
consultant will be that of a civil engineer with specialization in
water engineering, and what is more important great experience in rural
water supply appropriate technology in developing countries, notably in
Sub-Sahara Africa. The consultant should work in close collaboration
with the experts of the Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources and
draw on available literature including publications of the World Bank.
Excellent knowledge of English is indispensable, whilst knowledge of
vernacular languages will be considered as an asset.
Employment of Expatriate Ugandans in the Ministry of Education
8.       Many qualified and experienced Ugandans, who can make a
significant contribution to the rehabilitation and development efforts
of the Ministry of Education, are now expatriates having left the
country during the long period of instability and civil unrest. With
the return to normalcy, some of them seem to be willing to be
repatriated and serve under the present Government. To ensure that as
many as possible of the Government's skill requirements can be filled
by Ugandans, the Ministry of Education intends to attract the highly
qualified amongst them to take up permanent positions in the Ministry's
administration and teaching positions. The proposed study will explore
ways and means to revive the interest of expatriate Ugandans to serve
again in the teaching profession of their country. The profile of the
consultant will be that of an education/public administration
specialist with experience in organization, management and
administration. Knowledge of the situation in Uganda and awareness of
the experience gained in this area by other countries in Sub-Saharan,
Africa and elsewhere (e.g. Jamaica), as well as of UNDP's TOKTEN
system,    will be helpful.  Proficiency in English is required.



- 59 -
Annex 8
Page 6 of 6
Other Studies
9.       A number of policy and administrative measures that would help
make the sector financially self-sustainable, and are under discussion
by the National Policy Review Commission may need further investigation
(rome of them bave also been flagged by the Bank's recent study on Cost
and Financing of Education). Details regarding these studies will be
articulated in the course of project implementation but could include:
a) determination of optimum enrollment corresponding to a particnl;ar
curriculum to ensure economically viable institutions (especially
teacher training colleges and technical schools); b) measures to reduce
the over-segmentation of the primary school syllabus; c) ways to limit
over-specialization of secondary school teachers; and d) strategy for
the phasing out of boarding facilities and other forms of student
subsidies or for gradual introduction of fees to recover the full costs
for these services.



- 60 -
Annex 9
UGANDA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Technical Assistance Requirements
Staff/Months
1.       Proiect Office
a) Advisor to the Director                              36
b) Accountant                        e                  36
c) Short-Term Consultants                                9
(e.g. Audit, Evaluation etc)
Sub-Total      81
2.       Textbook Unit/Fund
a) Short-term Consultants                               12
(Monitoring Textbook Fund)
Sub-Total       12
3.       Monitoring of Education
a) Inspectorate
Long-term Expert                            24
Short-term Consultants                       6
b) Policy Commission
Short-term Consultants                      2
c) NCDCISTEPU
Short-term Consultants                        1
Sub-Total      33
4.       Pre-Investment Studies
(Short-term Consultants)
a) Financing of education                                2
b) Analysis of Civil Service Census (MOE)                2
c) Feasibility Study of Textbook Production              2
d) Feasibility Study on Water Provision to
Primary Schools in Rural Area (Roof catchment)        3
e) Re-employment of Overseas Expatriates MOE             2
f) Other Studies                                         6
Sub-Total      17
Grand Total   143



- 61 -
Annex 10
UGANDA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Training Requirements
Staff/Months
A. Overseas
a)  Textbook Unit                                           5
(Management)
b)  Project Office                                          4
(Management)
c) Policy Commission                                        9
d)  NCDCISTEPU                                              2
Sub-Total             20
B. Local
a)  Inspectorate                                          120
b)  Policy Commission                                      51
C)  Textbook Unit                                          25
(e.g. Book Management, Accounting)
Sub-Total             196
Grand Total           216



- 62 -
REPUBLIC OF UG(+1A                                 Annex 11
FCURTH EDUCATION PR3JT
SUsiaWTY ACOUNTS COET SUNAY
(UANA SNIVINGS Nillion)           (USS '000)  .                    Tcl
- --- I Foreign hit
Local  Foreign Total    Local Foreili   *'t         Exchr       Couts
1. INIES SNT COSTS
A. t1 1                                           -  1,1525  1,1X.5          - 76.3  .,63.3            100'      39
D. JNSRTI(. NATERIALS NO EOU!PNT                  -   397.'.   37.5          - 2IZ33,6 :       2::.3    10'      13
C. MORCYCLES AND         PANTS                    -     193      19.3        -    22.3;   129.3
3. U    LES                                       -     10.2                       68.2    68.2      -        .1
E. UWPIJ    MD COLMTI                             -    450.0   450.0         - 3M00.0  3i000.0         10        15
F. TECIIL ASSISTMMN                            17.6   158.2   175.8   117.2  1054.5  1171.7             90        6
G. FELIOIINIPS                                    -    42.B      42.8        -   295.0    21.)0        10o        1
N. COSLTANTS                                   10.4    93.6   104.0    69.3   623.8   693.1;            T0        4
Total IlWllET COSTS                               28.0  2314.0  2,342*0   186.5 15U426.S 15.613.0          91       79
II. EWANT COSTS
A.   SO S AND SEINARS                         77.0      8.6    85.5   513.0    57.0   570.0            1C        3
D. OETI   NT                                 475.2    52.8   528.0  3,168.0   352.0  3.520,0           1^       18
Total REKINT COTmS ,                            55.2    61.4   613.5 3.6U1l0   409.0  4090.0              10       21
Total ASELINE COSTS                               580.1  24375.3 2,955.5  3,867,5 15,835.5 19M703.0         80      1O0
iwuical Continncics                             50.0   23?.5    295.5   386.7  1i,83.6  1,970.3          V.       10
Price Cmtinunczs                               734.4   200.6   035.0 4,896.2  1,337.4 6J233.6            21       32
Totsl PRIECT COSTS                              1,372.6 2,913.5 4,196.0 9,%1504 18,756.5 27t906.9           67      142
.,Z32  .,=  =t=-=             -     g g        z      Useu zuzu



- 63 -
REWIUC F U                                            Mx  12
FOSN ElATION MECT
PIMOECT ?ShUWT
(U;EA SHILL!N68 Hillion)         (US$ '000)                    I To'A
-  -oriiei'n     m
Local  Fouisn  Total    Local Foreign  Total   Exchn*    Costs
At     . P.NM   OM. IN.RUJENT
1.  MB? KHI  IIIOIIEN                 .                 1;902.5  1.802.5       - 12,016.7 12,01.;7       100       61
SubrTotal PRINMtT SIOOu    1H                           - 1.302.5 ;.80.5          - 12,016.7 12,016.7       100      61
B. IlSTINTUIML NS PULICT DK WLOPNT
t. I     MATE                                    14.5    37.7   26.!         9.2   534.8 1,575s.0         37       e
2. tEXTI MIT                                       4.9   211.1   21E.0    32.5  1,407.5 I440.0           91        7
3. EUCATIK POIMc MRE        OISSION                0.*4    39.3    39.7      2.4   261.9  -2.3            9         I
4. OnWL    CUUN   VEL             1.S              1.5      1.9  3. 3    10.2    LI.?         "*a         54       t
S. ROJECT INBENTAION LiT                         415.8   146.2   562.0 2,7718.  974.7 3746.5    2          6       19
6h P3010  FEMTION FACILITY                         4vl    42.4    46.5    27.5   2.5   310.0              91       2
Sub-Total NT1IUIW  I  POUCY KEUWPNENf               575SD.2   523.5  1103.7 3,3.6 3523.4  7.358.0            43       7
1. FREDWESTIEN T 3119IQ                           4.9    44.3    49.3    32.3   295.5   329.3            0        2
Sub-Total FUINE3STIENT STUDIES                  '     4.9    44.3    4.3    32.3   295.5   323.3             0        2
Total &S9MDE COSTS                                    53B.1 2,375.3 2,955.5  3.367.5 15.835.5 19703.0          s0     1::
Rhlsical Contilnncins                               58.0   237*5   295.5   336.7 1,583.6  1,970.3           80      10
Price Cantinuneisn                                 134.4   200.6   935.0 46896.2  .337.4 69233.6            :1      32
Total PRMJECT CST                                   13.6 2,913.5 46136*0 9,150.4 183756.4 27,96.9             67      142
.~~~~m                                          .u               .                 .      .=



IMuIC OF Uan                                Amex 13
FIDRN EDUAUtII  W11
SI_ivw 1cob by Year
Totals lieluditd CmntirZiin               Totals Including Contineiu
(tls  91.11IN5 Milton)                         lUst '000)
m    19    1991  19  19M  Tot          19  19 0   19M         9 IM   1M    Total
1. Dn tesrs
a. T1XT96                              257.4  397.6  411,6 12,7 174.6 1,383.8 1715.7 2,650.7 2,743.7  951.2 1,163.8 9,225.1
t. IDlTRliK NATERIS AND E       fE      86.5  133.7  138,4 48.0 58.7  465.3   576.9  891.2  922.5  319,8  391.3 3,101.7
C. INOYCTCIS AND SPMU  PARTS             4.3    6,6    6.9  4.8    -   22.6    28.7   44,3   45,8   31.8        -   150.5
D. UE!LE                                 7.5    2.7    1,3    -    -   11.6    50.2   18.1    8.9        -      -    77.2
E. SIPPINS MID M IM L!6TIOFN           201.0  207.0  107.t    -    -  515.1 1,339.8 1,380.0  714.2       -      - 37434.0
F. TEMIIIC4L ASISTIWC                   85.8   7.0   51.7    -    -  214.5  172.2  513.1  344.6          -      - 1,429.
9. FELLlSHIP9                           14.0   20.1    6.6  4.5  5.5   50.6    93,2  134.0   44.0   29.7   36.4   337.3
H. C913.LTMIT                           39.1   45.4   38.4  6.1    -  129.1   260.7  302,8  256.1   40.7        -   860.4
Total IWUIEIIT  MT                        695.6  890.1  7U.0 206.0 239.7 27M24  4,637.3 5v934,3 5079.9 1,3732 1,591.4 18,616.1                                                0
= ~ ~ ~  ~ --       ----- 59S   - - 9 . -59S95- ----     = - -  --------   -----   9--- _--
11. 810 CDS91
A. hI       IIAND IEIIIWE              35.9   34.0   41.4 46.3 25.B  183.4   239.2  226.4  276.1  308.6  172.1 1b222.4
it OIRATIIS NOWIT                     1481  222,6  255.8 289.4 M.3 1,210.3  9S7.4 1484.1 1,765M1 1922.9 1,968.9 8,068.4
Total ECtUBT COST                         184.0  256.6  297.2 334.7 321.2 1,3.6 1t226.6 1710.4 1,991.2 2,231.5 2,141,0 9,290.9
_3= _333    =   59=33=3_:=  33== S==  =3=399 9-_3   = =S9 =99_92C
Total RLECT CMSTS                          879.6 1,146.7 1,059,2 540.7 559.9 46186.0 5.864.0 7,644.7 7r061.1 3,604.7 3,732.4 27,06.9
htobsv 7, 1988 10140



Iuc eF IU
FiltH  MUATION PROW                                                        Annex 14
hea   kinwt bu Prui   Ccms4t
-U     SE MUM  Killion)
UTU mITIUIMD POLICY  ELDT)I M1IFT
IIHID                                              NAT hAL.                                 STUIIDES              t>wi;
-                            EItIIIII   aflAlls CUNRCL1M  PIWECT      P3.C1         -                   Cmtn.euiwsi
UtIlE? 9811                10E133   POd UC ENEIM WJLfI!ET  I IMEI13 ATOI PREPARAIMDI  PRCI1 JEST*IIT
DOII         IIWIClIllE   mu31       C IIIN          heE          UNI'I      FACtULT        STUDIES    TMI1      I   L-:
=             r__ _ = :=~a m =      =g  3  =!C .=    ..=                         _        =CC                           ..... =
I. IE110m 0115
a. iwuain                                         965.0           -    1975              -            -                                           1.*v2.5  ±o.*:  ::.
O.zicun. UTIJS ur EU E                            wr.S            -         -             -           -             -           -              -   3; 57.5   o.o.
cot      T.         E Ta                             -          19.3       -             -            -              -          -              -    19.3  i'.O    1.9
.  EB                                                -          3.9        -              -           -            1.2         5.3             -    10,2   4.00    1.0
1. swPim AID CDOLDTM                              450.            -                                                                                 450.0  10.0   45.0
F.   Tm . ASISThIE                                    -         4.3         -             -           -          101.0        31.5             -   1         ;5.9   .0   I?.6
6. FLU                                               -            -       31S          36.0           -            3.0           -             -    42.9  10.0    4.3
R. CUt TWS                                            -         11.0     21.8           3,7         1.9            6.9        9.9            49.3.  104.0  10.0   10.4
Iotdl ISlEiNTWIll                                  1.002.5        77.3    213.0          39.7         1.9           112*0        46.S          49.3 29342.0  10.0  234.2
III .ain       comm
i. uwgurnw                                          -          m,o                                i1s                     -                          s- '.5  10.0    3.6
U. OFPAI    lMIT                                    -         75.0 .    3.0             -           -          450.0           -             -   59.0  10.0   O2'9
T3tl l t  tO5S                                          -        19.0       3,0             -         1.5          40.0            -              -   613.5  10.0   61.4
Total  ASlL  CDII                                  102.5          236.3    216.0          3.7          3,3          5U,0         46.5           49.3 24955.5  10.0  295.5
"Mintl  mtingwin                                   190.3        23.6      21.           4.0         0.3            56.2         4.7           49   '29.5   0.0    0.0
prir"     1 con inf                                156.2       179.2      25.9          3.4          1.5         558.          2.1            7.7   935.0   9.1   95.0
Total M.I1 CUM5                                    2M139.0        439.1    263,5          47.0         5.2        1.177.1        53.2           61,9 4,186.0   9.1  3MM4
=_~~~~~~~  --- r1,  ov_Vgw.  cata                        atscva=  e22-c-o                  _        2%tr .t 2c-
Rodt Ezobm                                      2,139.0        102.1    252.7          46.5         2.0          172,5        47.3           51.4 2,913.5   9.1  255.
Iktdi   7 19   10140



Ia   I  I FA                                          Annbx 15
FIlTH EIAI        10
Pojet Cwonats bi YTea
Totals IrnludirtO Contingrin                Totals lnaludin    tinteiui
(MM  91WLTIUS Nliin)                               (U1  '000)
1989  10   1991  1992  1M   Total    9M    1990                 1992   1993   Total
A. REW   1. DURUEE
l. PMM    am       ROIIIT                     503.0  671.   590,1167,4 204N. 239.0  3,353,2 4,490.7 3,934.0 1,l11.2 t,365.7 14M59.?
lTotal   1     SO    1M _N                      5D3.0  673.6  590.1 167.4 204      3.0  3W3532 4490.7 3P934.0 1,116.2 I365.7 14M259.0
*.  sTINITur       IWD PUlC  IEWLUFT
1I INSPITQRTE                                  10.5  l.9   992  91.6 4890  439.1   536.4  798.7  661,2  610.8  320.1 2,927.3
2, TEXT MII lIIT                               49,4   78.9   75al 31.0  2?93  263.5   329*2  525.5  500.5  204   195.4  1,71.
3. DEATIE PU [CT EIIEMil Chh6IIN               16.2   16.6    4,3  4,5  5.5   47.0   10893  110.4   28.6   29,7   36.4   311.3
4, NATIOM.L OlIOI  itEWLiET MIERl               2.7    0.9    0.7  0.4  0,5    5.2    18.1    5.9    4.8    2.7    3.0    34.6
5. PMJET IIIPIENT^ATJN UNIT                   163.3  M232.   263.6 245,8 271.8 I,177.1  1t08.6 1S,S0.5 1057.6 168.8 lpV11.9 7.C44.4
6. FROJECT PFIPTION FACILITY                   53,2              -    -    -   53.2   354.7         -                            4.
-Total DITlWUUU. MU AND  LIC E WuLOP             365*3  448,7  442.9 M3, 355,0 I,9Ml.2 2,435*4 29991*0 2su52S ';48E.5 2W,6.7 1332U.3
C. PEIDEITENT  5UIES
1. PMIIEIIT 8131                               11.3   24.4   26.1    -    -   61.9    75.4  163.0  174.3           -      ^
la-iot  PIEIIESTIINT911                           11.3   24,4   26.1    -    -   61.9    75.4  163,0  174.3                       4 ! 12.7
Total "MCI  IST                                    979.6 19146.7 1,059.2 540,7 559. 4,61.0 5,964.0 7,644#7 7.061.1 3,604.7 30732.4 2?796.?
Octae 7, 19 60340



- 67 -
UGANDA                       Annex 16
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IDA Piscal Year        Disbursement        Accumulated      Accumulated
(Quarters)         During quarter     Disbursement      Disbursement
(Mill. USS)        (Kill. USS)         (2)
FY 1989
3rd Quarter               2.2                2.2             10
4th Quarter               2.4                4.6             21
FY 1990
1st                      2.2                6.8             31
2nd                      2.0                8.8             40
3rd                      1.3               10.1             46
4th                      1.6               11.7             53
FY 1991
lot                      1.3               13.0             59
2nd                      1.5               14.5             66
3rd                      1.3               15.8             72
4th                      1.1               16.9             77
FY 1992
lst                       0.9               17.8             81
2nd                       0.9               18.7             85
3rd                       0.7               19.4             88
4th                       0.6               20.0             91
FY 1993
1st                       1.1                21.1            96
2nd                       0.9                22.0           100



:  -                    I     I     I               
K~--   i  x I!i 
0 ~    ~~~        ~      ~~~ ~ m S   e; 33I..qzE.... ..x.|
4'~~           !           i                
,I                                                   -     K
*                                    K       N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ea=e
4mo                                      G
-~~~~~o                                                   2   %-     
_D__    <                                   _^_"   10
b -  w - - - > - - *                                               co
_ _"e~~~ ID                                   . .
*                                                              -a~~~~~~~20*
eusfl  1,1          1              1      [iC1o"
_ lA  aI  1 re a-, A    an
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I _A ,I . J"    IW_O JJ
1 I _ I _^ , I _ q 1a                    an       a
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m , (9w ^,|                 r^,l.
w w 31 w Ep IE~~ow am MS OI am
9~~~1 XQU                                v  11 wr1
69~~~~ 



- 70 -
Annex 19
UGANDA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Document Code
(Africa Regional
Documents Center)
Documents Available in Project File
1.       *Appraisal of Textbook Component", C. Denning,
Consultant, May 1988                                             D17042
2.       'Report on a Consultancy to the Education Policy
Review Commission of the Ministry of Education --
From 10th July to 20th August, 1988.' By Dr. Brian Garvey
(Consultancy was financed under PPF)                            D19420
3.       'Financing and Efficiency of Primary Education'.
By Pierre Baesjou, Consultant (Unesco). Economist for
4th Education Project Appraisal Mission                         D19421
4.       'National Curriculum Development Centre Decree", 1973.
Decree No. 7. Government of Uganda, 23rd March, 1973             D19423
5.       'Ugandat Completion Report -- Third Education 2roject
(CR 1329-UG)-. Draft Unesco, Educational Financial
Division, March, 1988                                            D12935
6.       'The Financial Feasibility of Universal Primary Education
in Uganda". World Bank Sector, Report, 1987 6682 - Yellow.    B/IR 6682
7.       'Costs and Efficiency of Vocational, Technical and Comnercial
Education in Uganda', by Garth L. Mangum, Consultant,
Washington, D.C., May 7, 1987                                    D19424
8.       *A Study of Costs in Internal Efficiency at Makerere
University', by Stephen A. Hoenack, Consultant
(Draft) Washington, DC., May 18, 1987                           D19425
9        'Uganda: Towards Stabilization and Economic Recovery'
Washington, World Bank Report, September, 1988                     --



_,18D 2078
,AIN                            *                    t3                                
__s  u                  D A  N  /
/ \.   --OO                               .'   '  
i; _ Z 7W a ,g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Krabong J)
Major Roads                                          Iorz
Railroods                                   4       -,I
3-     -        Rivers                                 TAR4D                                                                                                                      3
*     District Capitals
District Boundories                                                              ULU
Internationol Boundaries                                                                                                                       MOROTo\5       m
Pbk.i
-,                ~~~~~~NottoLR
0     25    50    75   100 KILOMETERS
0       20      40      40 MILES                                                           APAJ
2.                                                                                                                                                                                2 
MASIND2I
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                    ,         S,,I                                 .&P H    A
HOM '-KAK-ft<-   1   XMAtAhtAt->  - ^ -w                       . i _     SUDHO;NR  >5
4                    O~-   UNOIUGYOID
K eviolo N I              /      /1MUBENDE                                  J                                   -ft..      
,'A       L AN    -  I J   IGAN                                                                                                  O
L                      )J
BUHEY                             TCANA.R[N.
~~~ k.-"' RWANDA'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  St.  -~~~~~~~~~-                               1~~~~~~~~TANZANIA~~~~~~~V
KAI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ZMI
m  RAKAI                      V I c f o   a                             KENYA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JLY19



