Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1965 UG
                    (Fourth Education Project)
                              between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 9, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1965 UG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December  9,  1988,  between THE REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, being  satisfied of the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association  to  assist  in the financing of the
Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed  on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section  1.01.   The   "General   Conditions   Applicable  to
Development  Credit   Agreements"   of   the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with  the  last  sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General  Conditions),  constitute  an  integral  part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings  therein  set  forth,  and  the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
     (c)  "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
     (d)  "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit within MOE;
     (e)  "TF" means the  Textbook  Fund  to  be established under
Part B.1 of the Project;
     (f)  "NCDC" means the  National Curriculum Development Center
within MOE;
     (g)  "STEPU" means the  Science  and Technology Equipment and
Production Unit;
     (h)  "EPRC" means the Education Policy Review Commission;
     (i)  "Third Education Project" means the Project described in
Schedule 2 to  the  Development  Credit Agreement (Third Education
Project), dated  March  11,  1983,  between  the  Borrower and the
Association;
     (j)  "U Sh"  means  Uganda  shillings,  the  currency  of the
Borrower; and
     (k)  "Project   Preparation   Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted  by  the  Association  to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of  letters,  dated December 10, 1987, and
January 15, 1988, between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen
million   one    hundred    thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 17,100,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit  Account,  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement,  for  expenditures made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of goods  and  services,  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this  Agreement, and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
    (b)   The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and  maintain  in  dollars,  through  the  Bank  of Uganda, a
special account  in  a  commercial  bank  on  terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits  into, and payments out
of, the Special  Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
Page  3
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of  the   Project   Preparation   Advance,  withdrawn  and
outstanding as  of  such  date,  and  to  pay  all  unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance  of  the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1994, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the Credit, not
withdrawn  from  time  to  time,  at  a  rate  to  be  set  by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate
of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue:
         (i)   from a date sixty (60)  days after the date of this
               Agreement  (the  accrual  date)  to  the respective
               dates on which  amounts  shall  be withdrawn by the
               Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled;
         (ii)  at the  rate  set  as  of  the  June 30 immediately
               preceding the accrual date  or  at such other rates
               as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
               to paragraph (a) above. The  rate set as of June 30
               in each  year  shall  be  applied  as  of  the next
               payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, except  that  the rate set as of
               June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid:
          (i)  at such places as  the Association shall reasonably
               request;
         (ii)  without restrictions of any  kind imposed by, or in
               the territory of, the Borrower; and
        (iii)  in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
               purposes of Section 4.02  of the General Conditions
               or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
               may from time  to  time  be  designated or selected
               pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service  charge  at  the  rate  of  three-fourths  of  one percent
(3/4 of 1%)  per  annum  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  May  15 and November 15
commencing May  15,  1999,  and  ending  November  15,  2028. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
November 15, 2008, shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever:
          (i)  the Borrower's gross  national  product per capita,
               as  determined  by   the  Association,  shall  have
               exceeded $790  in  constant  1985-dollars  for five
               consecutive years; and
         (ii)  the Bank shall  consider  the Borrower creditworthy
               for Bank lending,
Page  4
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and, after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry out the Project, through
MOE, with due  diligence  and  efficiency,  and in conformity with
appropriate educational,  financial  and administrative practices,
and shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and,  except  as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     (c)  Pursuant to paragraph (a)  of this Section, the Borrower
shall, on a quarterly  basis,  make  available  to MOE, for use by
PIU, such  funds  in  Uganda  shillings,  as  are  estimated to be
required by  PIU  in  the  following  three-month  period to cover
expenditures which are not to  be  covered by withdrawals from the
Credit Account.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of  the  goods  and  services  required for the
Project, and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Credit,
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  3  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall,  no later than December 31,
1989, submit to the  Association,  for  its review, a satisfactory
action plan to  eliminate  the  discrepancy  between the number of
primary and secondary school teachers actually performing teaching
duties and the number of teachers on the payroll.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall,  no later than December 31,
1990, submit to the Association,  for  its review and comments, an
action plan to:
     (a)  ensure that the  level  of  enrollment at primary school
teachers' training colleges is cost-effective; and
     (b)  improve the ratio of  school-size  to number of subjects
Page  5
offered  at  secondary  school  teachers'  training  colleges  and
technical and vocational institutions.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices,  the  operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect  of  the  Project,  of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special  Account  and  the  TF  for each fiscal
               year,  audited,  in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied   by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain,  until  at   least   one   year  after  the
               Association has received  the  audit for the fiscal
               year in which the  last  withdrawal from the Credit
               Account was made,  all  records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts  and  other documents) as
               evidence of such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
Page  6
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 8147
          Kampala
          Uganda
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                FINSEC                           61170
                Kampala
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                          By /s/ Stephen K. Katenta Apuli
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  7
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Textbooks                   6,000,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
(2)  Instructional               2,000,000       100% of foreign
     materials, and                              expenditures and
     teaching and                                80% of local
     office equipment                            expenditures
(3)  Vehicles,                     200,000       100% of foreign
     motorcycles and                             expenditures and
     spare parts                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(4)  Technical                   1,230,000       100%
     assistance
(5)  Training abroad               220,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
(6)  Overseas shipping           2,330,000       100% of foreign
     and consolidation                           expenditures
(7)  In-country workshops          210,000       50%
     and seminars
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(8)  Operating costs:
     (a)  for Part B.2             120,000       30%
          of the Project
     (b)  other                    340,000       15%
(9)  Refunding of                  250,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Preparation                         suant to Section
     Advance                                     2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(10) Unallocated                 4,200,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  17,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "operating costs" means expenditures for:
        (i)   office supplies and office communications services;
       (ii)   fuel   and   maintenance   of   vehicles,  including
              motorcycles,  procured  from  the  proceeds  of  the
Page  8
              Credit and the Credit made under the Third Education
              Project; and
      (iii)   per-diem allowances.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
     (a)  expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
     (b)  expenditures   under   Category   (8)(a),   unless   the
Association receives by September  30  of  each year, beginning on
September 30, 1990, a satisfactory  performance report on Part B.2
of the Project for  the  preceding  fiscal year and a satisfactory
work program for the subsequent fiscal year.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to:
     (a)  maintain  the  momentum  of  the  Borrower's educational
rehabilitation efforts and ensure their sustainability;
     (b)  assist the Borrower in  initiating,  on a pilot basis, a
revolving textbook  fund  for  the  replenishment of instructional
materials;
     (c)  strengthen key institutions in MOE; and
     (d)  prepare  for  a   subsequent   project  to  address  the
Borrower's strategy for the education sector.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Textbooks and Instructional Materials
     Acquisition  of   textbooks,   teachers'   guides  and  other
instructional materials, and  equipment  for the rehabilitation of
about 3,400 primary schools.
Part B:   Institutional and Policy Development
1.   Establishment, on a  pilot  basis,  of  a  revolving fund for
replenishment of textbooks and  instructional materials in schools
selected from  among  those  assisted  under  the  Third Education
Project.
2.   Strengthening    MOE's    inspectorate    through   technical
assistance, training, including  workshops  and  seminars, and the
acquisition of vehicles, including motorcycles and spare parts.
3.   Strengthening NCDC's  ability  to  produce,  revise  and test
syllabi and course materials  (on  a  pilot basis), and assess the
cost effectiveness, quality  and  reliability  of local publishing
and printing.
4.   Strengthening STEPU's ability  to undertake experimental work
on simple low-cost science  instructional materials and equipment,
through training,  consultants'  services  and  the acquisition of
office equipment.
5.   Strengthening  NEPRC  through  consultants'  services,  study
tours and seminars.
Part C:   Studies
Page  9
     Carrying out studies required to implement policy measures in
the education  sector  and  preparing  for  a subsequent education
sector operation.
               *               *               *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as  provided  in  Part  C  hereof,  goods and overseas
shipping  and  consolidation  services  shall  be  procured  under
contracts awarded in  accordance  with  procedures consistent with
those set forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of  the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans  and  IDA  Credits", published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods manufactured in Uganda may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Materials, equipment, vehicles,  motorcycles  and spare parts
estimated to  cost  less  than  $50,000  per  contract,  up  to an
aggregate amount not to exceed  the equivalent of $380,000, may be
procured on the basis  of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of books for Part A of the Project
may be  procured  on  the  basis  of  negotiations with publishing
houses holding copyrights on such books.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of  invitations  to  bid,  proposed  awards  and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for  such  contracts  are  to  be  made  out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed  copies  of  each  such  contract required to be
furnished to  the  Association,  pursuant  to  paragraph  2 (d) of
Appendix  1  to  the   Guidelines,   shall  be  furnished  to  the
Association prior to the making  of  the  first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of each such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to  be  made  out  of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of each such contract,  together with the other information
required  to  be   furnished   to   the  Association  pursuant  to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished to
the Association as part of  the  evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  10
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower   shall   employ   experts   and  consultants  whose
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
shall  be  satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Such  experts  and
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures, satisfactory to the  Association,  on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as  Executing  Agency", published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Management
1.   In order  to  facilitate  the  proper  implementation  of the
Project,  MOE  shall  continue   to   maintain  PIU  with  overall
responsibility for the management  and coordination of all Project
activities. PIU's staff shall  include  a  Director, an Advisor to
the  Director,  a  Deputy   Director,  a  Procurement  Manager,  a
Distribution Manager, an  Accountant,  and  an  adequate number of
support staff whose  qualifications  shall  be satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   In order to assist PIU  in the implementation of the Project,
MOE shall,  as  and  when  required,  employ  technical assistance
staff, who shall form part of PIU.
3.   PIU shall prepare and  submit, to the Association, semiannual
reports  on  the  progress   of   implementation  of  all  Project
activities, and, promptly after the completion of the Project, the
Project completion  report  referred  to  in  Section  9.06 of the
General Conditions.
Part B of the Project
TF
4.   With the assistance of  a  suitably qualified consultant, MOE
shall take appropriate  steps  to  launch  TF, with annual contri-
butions from parents,  communities  and  MOE,  for the purchase of
books and instructional materials  to  be  used by schools in four
districts selected  by  MOE  on  the  basis  of selection criteria
satisfactory to  the  Association.  MOE  shall,  by  May 31, 1989,
submit to the Association, for its review and comments, a detailed
plan for the operation of TF including:
     (a)  specific arrangements for the collection of TF funds;
     (b)  arrangements to be made between MOE, MOF and the Bank of
Uganda under which MOF shall ensure that adequate foreign exchange
shall be made available  to  MOE  for the acquisition of textbooks
and educational materials with TF funds;
     (c)  specific criteria  for  monitoring  progress  during the
implementation of TF; and
     (d)  the level of the Borrower's contributions to the TF.
Page  11
5.   MOE  shall,  no  later  than  June  30,  1990,  carry  out an
evaluation of the pilot scheme to:
     (a)  determine the extent of success of the scheme, including
an assessment of the underlying causes;
     (b) verify that all  schools  which make contributions to the
scheme actually receive their entitlements; and
     (c)  recommend appropriate modifications  to the operation of
the scheme.
6.   MOE shall, no later than  June  30,  1991, carry out a second
evaluation of the  scheme  and,  subject  to  the  results of such
evaluation,  make  appropriate  recommendations.  The  Association
shall be afforded an  opportunity  to  review  and comment on such
recommendations.
Inspectorate
7.   MOE  shall,  with  the  assistance  of  a  suitably qualified
expert:
     (a)  prepare a detailed  plan,  including  a work program and
strategy,  satisfactory  to  the  Association,  for  improving and
strengthening the Inspectorate;
     (b)  organize and  conduct  workshops,  seminars and training
programs for inspectors at the district and regional levels;
     (c)  prepare suitable handbooks and guidelines for the use of
inspectors, teachers and headmasters; and
     (d)  strengthen the system of vehicle use and maintenance.
8.   By September 30, 1989,  MOE  shall submit to the Association,
for its review, a three-year work program for the period beginning
July 1,  1990,  and  ending  June  30,  1993,  satisfactory to the
Association, and, by September 30  of each subsequent year, submit
a performance report for the  preceding fiscal year and an updated
work program for the following fiscal year.
Part C of the Project
9.   MOE shall, with  the  assistance  of consultants if required,
carry out studies for:
     (a)  implementing  policy  measures  resulting  from  ongoing
assessments of the education sector;
     (b)  carrying out Project activities; and
     (c)  preparing for a subsequent education sector operation.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "Eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  Eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
Page  12
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to  be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received satisfactory evidence that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other evidence required, pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this  Schedule,  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for Eligible
                Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account, under  the  respective  Eligible Categories and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly  from  the  Credit   Account,   in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Article V  of  the  General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to  the  Eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount of any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02  of  the General Conditions, with respect
to the Project, shall equal the  equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit
Account  of  the  remaining   unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit
Page  13
allocated to the Eligible  Categories shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify  by  notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the  Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit  in  the  Special  Account, as of the
date of such  notice,  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
        (i)   was made for  an  expenditure  or  in  an amount not
              eligible pursuant to  paragraph  2 of this Schedule;
              or
       (ii)   was not justified by  the  evidence furnished to the
              Association,  the  Borrower   shall,  promptly  upon
              notice from the Association:
              (A)  provide  such   additional   evidence   as  the
                   Association may request; or
              (B)  deposit into the  Special  Account  (or, if the
                   Association shall  so  request,  refund  to the
                   Association) an amount  equal  to the amount of
                   such payment  or  the  portion  thereof  not so
                   eligible or  justified.  Unless the Association
                   shall otherwise  agree,  no  further deposit by
                   the Association into  the Special Account shall
                   be made until  the  Borrower  has provided such
                   evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the
                   case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds  to  the  Association  made  pursuant  to  para-
graphs 6 (a), 6 (b) and  6  (c) of this Schedule shall be credited
to  the  Credit   Account   for   subsequent   withdrawal  or  for
cancellation in accordance  with  the  relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
