Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A2/v" /9             q /  - 624j.  
Report No. 7436-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
DECEMBER 29, 1988
Industry, Trade and Finance Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance off
their ofRicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /a
(annual averages)
Rs per US$1.00       US$ per Rs 1.00
FY82                          10.55                 0.095
FY83                          12.75                 0.078
FY84                           13.48                0.074
FY85                           15.16                0.066
FY86                           16.13                0.062
FY87                          17.17                 0.058
FY88                           17.55                0.057
/a   Since January 8, 1982, the exchange rate for the rupee has been managed
with respect to a weighted basket of currencies.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ABL       Allied Bank Limited
ADB       Asian Development Bank
ADBP      Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
BEL       Banker's Equity Limited
CCI       Controller of Capital Issues
DFIs      Development Finance Institutions
DSCR      Debt Service Coverage Ratio
FCBs      Foreign Commercial Banks
FSAL      Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GOP       Government of Pakistan
HBL       Habib Bank Limited
ICP       Investment Corporation of Pakistan
IDBP      Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IIC       Industrial Investment Credit
KSE       Karachi Stock Exchange
MCB       Muslim Commercial Bank
NBP       National Bank of Pakistan
NCBs      National Commercial Banks
NDFC      National Development Finance Corporation
NIT       National Investment Trust
PBC       Pakistan Banking Council
PICIC     Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
PFIs      Participating Financial Institutions
SALs      Structural Adjustment Loans
SSEs      Small-Scale Enterprises
SBP       State Bank of Pakistan
SFYP      Seventh Five Year Plan - FY88-FY93
TFCs      Term Finance Certificates
UBL       United Bank Limited
GOVERNMENT OF ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                    Page No.
PROJECT SUMMARY .....................,...............                  i
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR.                                                   2
A. Economic Setting.                                                   2
B.  Industrial Structure and Recent Performance.                       3
C.  Industrial Strategy and Investment Prospects.                      3
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR.                                                    4
A. The Structure of Financial System.                                  4
B.  Industrial Finance .................... ................           7
C. Policy Framework.                                                   8
D. The Capital Market .10
E. Financial Sector Reforms .13
IV.  BANK'S INDUSTRIAL LENDING STRATEGY .14
V. THE PROJECT.16
A. Project Objectives .16
B. Project Description and Design .17
C. Equity Market Development .18
D.  The Credit Delivery System for Industry .19
E. Technical Assistance .21
F. Project Cost and Financing Plan .21
VI.   PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (PFIS) .22
A. Participating NCBs .22
B. Participating DFIs .23
VII. THE PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT .31
A. Amount and Allocation of Funds .31
B. Financial Package .31
C. Administration ..35
VIII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .36
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS .36
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Pakistan in
June/July 1988. The mission consisted of Messrs. Dalla (Chief), Punsalan, Thuyet
(ASTIF), Bhattacharya (EMTIE), Qureshi (RMP) and Gordon (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wcrld Bank authorization.



Annexes                                                                               Page No.
1.   Textile Sector . ............................................                     38
2.   The Commercial Banking System ..............................                      48
3.    Islamization of Pakistan's Financial System ................                      57
4.   The Capital Market .......................... .                                   64
5.   Projected Private Industrial Investment (FY89-FY91) ........                       75
6. Habib Bank Ltd                         ................   76
7. United Bank Ltd                                . . .    80
8.   Muslim Commercial Bank .............................                              82
9. National Bank of Pakistan                             . . .                         85
10.  National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC)                    .      .        88
11.    Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP)                   .     .          95
12.    Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation ......                     113
(PICIC)
13. Projected Disbursements                             ....   126
14,   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File ......                      127



- i -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                    Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries               Private industrial enterprises will be eligible for
financing under the project. The Bank's funds can
be used to finance both fixed assets and permanent
working capital.
Amount                      US$ 148 million equivalent in Bank loan and
US$2.0 million equivalent IDA credit.
Terms                       The loan will carry the Bank's standard variable
interest rates and will have a fixed amortization
schedule of 20 years including a grace period of 5
years. The credit will be on standard IDA terms of
35 years including a grace perioe of 10 years.
On-lending Terms            A final minimum interest rate of 15% p.a. plus
regular charges. Allowing a minimum spread of 3% to
the PFIs, GOP will on-lend the Bank funds at 12%.
The PFIs will be allowed to price the individual
sub-loan at or above the minimum lending rate based
on the credit risk of each sub-borrower. GOP would
receive a fee of 4.35% p.a. (based on the current
Bank lending rate of 7.65%) to cover foreign
exchange and interest rate risks. GOP will on-lend
the Bank funds to the PFIs for a period of 15 years
including a grace period of 3 years . The PFIs
would on-lend the funds to the final borrowers for a
period of up to 10 years including a grace period of
up to 3 years.



- 1. -
Project Description.       The proposed Project is aimed at: (i) financing
private industrial projects through an expanded
term-lending system; (ii) assisting GOP in
developing a more efficient stock market to increase
tie sources of equity finance for industry; (iii)
stimulating further competition among Participating
Financial Institutions (PFIs) as a means of
improving the services offered to the private
sector; (iv) assisting the PFIs especially PICIC and
IDBP in their operational diversification programs;
and (v) addressing selected key corporate finance
issues such as bridge loan, and more market
determined interest rate.
Estimated Cost             US$ 298 million
Participating Financial
Institutions (PFIs)        PFIs which meet agreed eligibility criteria.  These
would include three development banks (PICIC, NDFC,
IDBP) and four participating commercial banks (Habib
Bank, United Bank, Muslim Commercial Bank, and
National Bank of Pakistan).
Procurement                Contract below US$ 2.0 million: present commercial
practice, i.e., at least three quotations. Contract
over US$ 2.0 million: Limited International Bidding
consistent with the Bank guidelines.
Eligibility Criteria
of sub-projects            (i)   Maximum debt/equity ratio: 60:40.  Bridge
loans will be considered as debts.
Subordinated loan from the director would be
considered as equity.
(ii)  Minimum debt service coverage ratio: of 2:0.
(iii) Minimum Internal Financial & Economic Rate of
Return of 15X.
Technical Assistance       Funds would be made available to cover cost of
training, necessary office technology such as
personal computers to enhance analytical work,
sector studies, and advisory services required to
improve the efficiency of credit delivery system for
industrial finance. Technical assistance programs
aimed at strengthening the Corporate Law Authority
will also be eligible for financing under the
Project.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (TC) PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Since 1977, GOP has given greater emphasis to the role of private
industry. This policy shift is reflected in GOP's decisions to privatize a
number of industrial units which were nationalized in 1972, open restricted
industries to private investment, limit investment in public sector
manufacturing enterprises to balancing and modernization and facilitate
resource mobilization for investment in private industry. The government has
substantially relaxed investment sanctioning requirements and other industrial
conI ols, and has increased investment and export incentives for private
industry. These policy measures have succeeded in stimulating private
investment and performance improvements. In connection with the Second
Industrial Investment Credit (IIC) project, GOP took a number of important
measures in the FY86 budget to develop the stock market to increase the
availability of long-term funds for investment. These measures included: a
reduction in corporate tax rate from 50% to 40% for companies listed on the
stock exchanges and total exemption of dividends from income tax. The
operations of the Karachi Stock Exchange (KSE) and Lahore Stock Exchanges have
also been modernized through technical assistance under the Second IIC
project. The measures taken so far have had positive impact on the stock
market and the number of listed companies has increased from 353 to 400. The
market capitalization of the securities listed on the KSE reached US$2.0
billion at the end of 1987. In order to further accelerate the growth of the
capital market, GOP has agreed to take additional measures (paras. 5.04-5.05).
1.02     The Project.  The proposed Project will build on the successful
implementation of the first and second IIC projects which have improved the
system of industrial finance involving the major development and commercial
banks (para. 4.04) and initiated measures to develop the stock market. The
proposed Third IIC Project aims at further increasing availability of equity
finance and non-bank long-term resources through zhe development of a more
efficient stock ma:ket.  It also seeks to improve the efficiency with which
funds for industrial investment are delivered by focusing on both the system
and individual institutions. The proposed Project would also address broader
corporate finance issues such as bridge loans (para. 5.05) and more market-
determined lending rate for project finance (para. 7.05). The Project would
continue the Bank Group's direct involvement with leading commercial banks
initiated under the First IIC project. The proposed Project incorporates
action programs to continue strengthening appraisal and supervision
capabilities of participating commercial banks and to assist development
financing institutions (DFIs), particularly the Industrial Development Bank of



- 2 -
Pakistan (IDBP) and the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investmcnt Corporation
(PICIC) and their business diversification programs. This report outlines a
Bank loan of US$148 million to meet a portion of the foreign exchange term
lending requirements of industry, and an IDA credit of US$2 million equivalent
for technical assistance to help meet policy and institutional objectives.
The proposed Project complements the Government's SAF program as is outlined
in the Policy Framework Paper and forms an integral part of the Bank Group's
lending strategy in Pakistan, in which a set of operations are geared to
support the expanded role of private investment, reforms in the financial
sector (para. 4.02), and efficiency improvements in public and private
industrial enterprises.
H. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
2.01     Duiring 1977-87 Pakistan's economy grew rapidly, at about 6.5% p.a. in
real terms. During the same period the manufacturing sector expanded faster,
recording a growth rate of 9.2% p.a. in real terms. The Government policies
have contributed significantly to the performance of the sector. During the
early 1970s, the Government nationalized a large segment of Pakistan's
industrial sector and dramatically increased the role of the public
enterprises in the manufacturing sector. Private investment dropped sharply
as also the overall performance of the sector. The present Government, which
took office in 1977, reversed these policies by assigning the leading role to
the private sector and limiting investments in public enterprises to balancing
and modernization of the existing units.
2.02     The role of the private sector expanded further under the Sixth Five
Year Plan (FY83-88). A new Industrial Policy Statement emphasizing the role
of the private sector as the engine of growth was issued in 1984 and
accelerated the process of deregulating industry. Investment sanctioning
limits were raised from Rs. 60 million to Rs. 300 million in project size, and
from Rs. 30 million to Rs. 50 million in foreign exchange. In July 1988, the
project size limit was raised further to Rs. 500 million, which practically
limit sanctioning to projects relating to security, defense and basic
essentials (drugs, and pharmaceuticals). The qualified financial
intermediaries (development finance institutions and commercial banks) have
been given the power to sanction investment projects. By delegating
investments sanctioning authority to the qualified financial institutions, GOP
has essentially left the investment decision to the private investors. The
deregulation of the industrial sector was also accompanied by trade policy
reforms, albeit at a slower pace, gradually replacing non-tariff barriers with
trade taxes and simplifying a complex web of trade restrictions. The combined
impact of all these policies has been impressive. Private industrial
investment grew at a rate of 23.9% p.a. in current prices during 1978-88
period. Investment in medium- and large-scale industries (MLSI) grew at an
even faster rate of 26.8% p.a. during the same period. What is most notable
is that the share of private industrial investment in *otal industrial
investment rose from 27.2% in 1978 to 89% in 1987. Under the Sixth Five-Year
Plan,, an investment target of Rs. 62 billion in private industrial investment



was envisaged. By the end of FY 1987, an investment of Rs. 49.2 billion, or
79% was realized and preliminary estimate shows that the target would be
e:sceeded.
B. Industrial Structure and Recent Performance
2.03     In FY87, the manufacturiag sector accounted for about 20% of GDP, and
employed about 16% of the economically active population. The MLSI, the
target group of the proposed Project, accounted for 72% of the sector's
output. Pakistan's manufacturing sector is dominated by textiles and food
processing industries, which are estimated t account for more than one-half
of manufacturing value added; other major se ors are engineering and chemical
industries. In FY87, manufacturea and semi-manufactured goods represented
about 72% of total exports. Cotton products account for about half of the
manufactured exports followed by carpets, leather products, synthetic
textiles, and marine products. In FY87, the manufacturing sector grew at a
rate of 7.4% in real term, which was somewhat lower than that of earlier
years. However, the performance of the textile sector was impressive with an
increase of 20% in the production of cotton yarn. The improvement in the
textile sector was due to the sharp increase in production of cotton yarn
which has risen from 4.0 million bales in 1983 to about 8.0 million bales in
1987. Most investments aimed at modernizing the textile sector, which were
approved during the 1984-86 period, came on stream in 1987. -'  Several
other major industries (cement, fertilizer, sugar, paper board, chipboard)
also showed notable growth.
C. ILdustrial Strategy and Investment Prospects
2.04     GOP's industrial strategy under the Seventh Five-Year Plan (SFYP)
sustains the strategy and policies pursued since 1977: a leading role for the
private sector; efficient import substitution; and rapid growth in e. orts.
The plan envisages a continued removal of infrastructural bottlenecks; a
substantial increase in the output of engineering goods and reduced dependence
on imports in sectors such as cement, fertilizers and edible oils. The drive
to expand and diversity exports will focus on agro-based industries, with
other sectors such as. engineering, and selected textiles making major
contributions. The plan targets a growth rate of 10% p.a. for the industrial
sector. Real growth of industrial output and value added is expected to be 9%
p.a. Manufactured exports are projected to grow by about 11% in real terms
which would increase the share of manufactured exports from 55% to 64% of
total exports by FY88. Private industrial investment is projected to grow at
29% p.a. in nominal terms and 22% in real terms. The ratio of industrial
investment to GDP is projected to increase from 4% in FY83 to 5.3% by FY88.
In terms of investment, the plan forecast a total manufacturing investment of
Rs. 102.5 billion, of which Rs. 91.1 billion,or 89% in the private sector. Out
of ARs. 91.1 billion, Rs. 68.6 billion, or 75% being MLSI and the balance in
the small-scale sector. The Plan envisages that the investment would be in
I'  Annex I provides a more detailed discussioi± or the textile sector.



- 4 -
the following sectors: textiles (28.5%), basic metal and engineering (25%),
agro-small scale industries (22..;), chemicals (15.9%), and others (7.9%).
2.05     The success of the plan's industrial strategy will depend, to a large
extent, on GOP'S ability to address weaknesses in trade and industrial
policies, the efficiency of public sector enLerprises, and infrastructure
deficiencies. The trade policy incentives continue to reflect import
substitution strategy for industrialization, inducing strong bias against
exports. However, in July 1988 the GOP implemented a major trade reform vhich
eliminated a substantial part of the non-tariff barriers, and initiated a
process of tariff rationalization. The GOP is also preparing a major
financial sector reform, to be supported by a proposed Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (FSAL) (para. 4.02). Sustaining these reforms in the medium
term, complemented by sound macroeconomic policies and flexible exchange rate
policy, is a necessary framework within which efficient industrial development
can take place. Policy Framework Paper approved by the Board on December 19,
1988, presents the comprehensive medium-term framework for Pakistan's
macroeconomic and adjustment policies. Within this framework, the low levels
of corporate savings and self-financing in Pakistan necessitates improvements
in the system of industrial finance especially supply of equity funds to
maintain the momentum in private industrial investment and ensure continued
industrial growth. The development of a vibrant capital market capable of
meeting the requirement of the private industries and reducing the excessive
reliance on the banking sector is therefore a key structural reform that needs
to be addressed by the Government (paras. 5.04-5.05)
H. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Structure of the Financial System
3.01     Overview.  The financial system in Pakistan consists of:  (i) five
nationalized commercial banks (NCBs); (ii) eighteen foreign commercial banks
(FCBs); (iii) two specialized commercial banks; (iv) eight development
financing institutions (DFIs); (v) several leasing and insurance companies;
(vi) two stock exchanges; and (vii) a housing finance corporation. The State
Bank of Pakistan (SBP), the central bank, regulates and directs the financial
system. Within the overall policies set by GOP and the SBP, the Pakistan
Banking Council (PBC), oversees and coordinates the activities of NCBs while
the Minis.ry of Finance monitors the operations of the other financial
institutions.
3.02     The Commercial Banking System.  Annex 2 provides a comprehensive
discussion of the commercial banking system. With total assets of Rs. 425
billion (US$24.8 billion) at the end of 1987, or 80% of the assets of the
financial system and a network of over 7,100 branches, the commercial banking
system plays a dominant roie in Pakistan's financial system. The five NCBs
together accounted for about 91% of deposits; 87% of advances; and 75% of
commercial bank's net profit after taxes (see Table 1).



- 5 -
Table 1: The Commercial Banking System. Key Indicators. 1982/1987 La
NCBs                       FCBs
1982    1986    1987     1982     198      1987
Deposits (Rs billion)           117.1    218.0    240.7      9.1     19.8     23.4
Advances (Rs billion)            72.4    133.7    130.7      9.1     16.7     20.1
Total Assets (Rs billion)/b     171.6    321.8    371.8     23.0     44.5     53.2
Advance/Deposits (%)             61.8     61.3     54.3    100.0     84.3     85.9
Capital and Reserves (Rs billion)   3.1    6.5      6.3      0.6      1.5      1.7
Capital/Deposits (%)             2.6       3.0      2.6      6.6      7.6      7.3
Net Profits (Rs million)        450      906      911       97      192      302
Return on Total Asst,.; (X)  0.6-0.43 0.07-0.33 0.05-0.27 0.0-1.25 0.0-0.21 0.0-1.85
Operating Costs as % o.' Average
Total Assets (X)               2.1      2.0      2.1      1.9      2.1      2.1
Number of Branchet 'Jvnee 30'                       7,100                       63
LA As of December 31
Lb Including contra items
Source: Grindlays Bank, May 30, 1988 and staff estimates.
3.03      With the measures taken by GOP and PBC since 1979 (para. 3.04), the
overall performance and profitability of NCBs improved considerably until
1985. The combined reported net profit after tax of the NCBa increased from
Rs 450 million in 1982 to Rs 970 million in 1985. Since 1986, the
profitability of NCBs has come under pressure with the introduction of more
stringent internal rules for provisioninig. As a result, the net profit of
the NCBs declined to Rs 911 million in 1987. However, there are significant
differences in profitability and the performance among the NCBs. In 1987,
Habib Bank's net profit were Rs 402 million, or 44% of the combined profits of
the NCBs although its total advances were 36% of the NCBs. In 1987, return on
total assets ranged from 0.27% for HBL to 0.05% for Allied Bank, the smallest
NCB. All NCBs to a certain extent continue to suffer from the problem of
overstaffing due to strong labor unions. In 1987, personnel cost as A
percentage of deposits of NCBs averaged 2.2% ranging from a low of 1.87% for
HBL to 2.81% for Allied Bank. Although the operating costs of the NCbs are
about the same as the foreign banks (Table 1), their profitability is low.
The relatively low profitability of NCBs is caused mainly by: high reserve



- 6 -
requirements (352 of deposits) and strict credit ceiling; I' the credit
allocation policy, which directs NCBs to finance priority sectors at low
interest rates; a large netwc:k of low profit branches in rural areas;
non-payment of interest on loans to the public sector; and general
overstaffing. FCBs, however, are able to increase profitability by catering
to selected corporate clients and carrying out a larger proportion of
fee-based business for which profit margins are greater. Some of these issu-es
would be addressed under the proposed FSAL (para. 4.04).
3.04     Sirce 1979, a number of steps have been taken to improve the
performance jf the NCBs. The NCBs have been allowed to build up their capital
to more prudent levels by limiting dividends to GOP. This has allowed the
NCBs to increase lending operations. These actions have led to a substantial
increase in profitability with the share of NCBs in total commercial bank
profitability, increasing from 71% in 1978 to about 90% irn 1984. The share
declined to 75% in 1987 due to the PBCs desire to build up reserves. Branch
expansion is no longer automatic and through a program of branch consolidation
a number of uneconomical branches have been closed !'. Expansion of
staffing, with the exception of recruitment of MBAs at middle management
level, has been frozen. A performance review system has been introduced and
bank employees can now be terminated with three months notice; increasingly,
promotions are based on merit rather than seniority. Central training
institutes (e.g., Institute of Bankers) have been strengthened. However, the
capital-to-deposit ratio of the NCBs remain low at about 3%. If more
stringent guidelines were to be applied, thien the NCBs as a group may need
additional capital. In connection with the proposed FSAL, GOP would be taking
a number of additional measures to further improve the performance of the NCBs
(para. 4.02). These would include a greater operational autonomy,
establishment of a performance monitoring system with specific performance
targets for each NCB, introduction of performance incentives based on
after-tax profitability, and an increase in paid-in capital based on a
portfolio audit to be carried out by SBP.
3.05     Role of NCBs in lndustrial Financing. Since early 1980 the SBP has
assigned an industrial term financing role to the NCBs through specific creuit
allocations. These allocations, if not utilized, cannot be channeled to other
credit purposes by the banks. Initially, there was some reluctance by the
banks to participate in the scheme. This reluctance was based on the low
interest spread obtained. By regulation these loans could only earn 11% p.a.
while working capital loans normally earn 14%. However, the disincentive was
removed with the Islamization of the financial system (see Annex 3). With
Islamization of the banking system and the use of Term Finance Certificates
As of December 31, 1987, the loan/deposit ratio of the five NCBs was
54.3% compared with 85.9% for foreign commercial banks. Because of the
overall credit ceiling, the NCBs are unable to lend and de facto forced
to invest excess funds in treasury bills which yield 6% p.a.
2/    Over 200 branches were closed in 1984.



- 7 -
(TFCs), the banks do not have the problem of cross rates and term lending has
become more attractive. The more efficient banks found ways to make these
operations more profitable by insisting on other banking business such as
letters of credit, working capital, collections and foreign exchange. As a
result, term lending by NCBs has increased sharply since FY83. In 1987,
actual disbursements of term loans to industry amounted to Rs 4.0 billion, or
4.3% of gross fixed investment. The rapid growth of this portfolio also was
aided by the general buoyancy in private industrial investment especially
textile.
3.06     Specialized Financial institutions.  A number of specialized financial
institutions also provide assistance to private industry. Key amongst these
institutions for industrial financing are the DFIs, their subsidiaries and the
various mutual funds and underwriters. Among the DFIs, PICIC, the only
financial institution with private ownership, makes foreign exchange loans to
medium- and large-scale industry. IDBP lends to medium- and small-scale
manufacturing units, directly and through selected commercial banks. The
National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC) provides term financing and
working capital to public and private sector industrial enterprises.  Banker's
Equity Ltd. (BEL), which was originally set up to promote Islamic instruments,
especially equity finance, provides capital to private industry by
underwriting equity issues and arranging consortia finance participation from
NCBs. The Investment Corporation of Pakistan (ICP) arranges industrial
financing through consortia of NCBs, underwrites equity issues and operates a
number of mutual funds while the National Investment Trust (NIT) operates
mutual funds and unit trust savings schemes. Three joint venture companies,
Pak-Kuwait, Pak-Libya and Pak-Saudi, were established in 1982 to provide loans
and venture capital to industry. Since 1985, several leasing companies have
been set up. However, they have thus far catered to the financing needs of
the small-scale enterprises.
3.07     Due to historical developments, different legal structures and
changing government policies, the DFIs became excessively compartmentalized
and were constrained in the range of financial services which they could
provide to industrial clients. In connection with the First IIC Project
(para. 4.04) during 1983-1985 GOP took a number of measures to rationalize
regulations affecting DFIs. These measures have led to increased competition
among the DFIs, a sounder financial basis especially for IDBP and PICIC, and
the provision of more comprehensive financial packages to private investors.
As a result, the efficiency of the industrial credit delivery system has
improved considerably.
B. Industrial Finance
3.08     Until 1981, PICIC and IDBP were the two major sources of term finance
for private industry. PICIC was set up with the assistance of the Bank Group
with IFC as a founding shareholder. Up to 1982, PICIC was catering to medium-
and large scale private industries while IDBP's main role was to service
small-scale enterprises. NDFC was catering to the public enterprises in the
manufacturing sector. However, since then the relative importance of the



- 8 -
established DFIs (PICIC and IDBP) have declined materially with the emergence
of the NCBs as a major force in term lending (para 3.05). Because of the
portfolio problems of PICIC and IDBP caused by the massive devaluation in
1972, they were unable to effectively meet the needs of private industry. To
overcome this problem, the Government in 1982 through SBP involved the NCBs in
term lending through mandatory credit allocation. Since the NCBs account for
80% of the financial system, they were able to carry out the new activity very
effectively. In 1982, the market segmentation between DFIs disappeared when
NDFC's Charter was amended to allow it to lend to private sector enterprises.
The role of the NCBs in term lending has increased further since 1983 when the
three major banks were included in the Bank and ADB projects as participating
financial institutions (PFIs). The increase in number of intermediaries and
added competition has led to a much more efficient system of delivering credit
to private industry and has by and large benefited the investors. Project
processing time was reduced and this has led to accelerated private industrial
investment. The trend is now clearly toward one stop banking as clients
demand a broader range of financial services from a single financial
institution.
C. Policy Framework
3.09     Islamization. I' As of July 1985, Pakistan's financial system and
all domestic currency transactions are based on new financing modes consistent
with Islamic principles. Interest rates have officially been removed from the
system. New financing arrangements, proposed or in operation, relevant to
industrial finance include: (i) mark-ups, a sale with profit margin which
varies according to the term; (ii) Term Finance Certificates (TFCs), which are
bonds with a risk premium; (iii) Musharikas, designed to meet working capital
needs, 2' in which profits are shared according to a pre-agreed formula;
(iv) Modaraba companies, which operate as investment funds in accordance with
Islamic tenets; and (v) hire-purchase and leasing.
3.10     The impact of Islamization on the financial system and industrial
finance has thus far been positive. By not imposing restrictions on the terms
and conditions which can be negotiated between lenders and borrowers, GOP has
effectively deregulated financial rates of return. This liberalization
applies in particular to term financing under TFCs and the arrangements for
hire-purchase and leasing. TFCs carry effective rates of 15% p.a., in
contrast with past term lending of 11%, this has to a large extent eliminated
major disincentive for financial institutions to engage in lending for fixed
industrial investment. In addition, the introduction of new financing
mechanisms such as hire-purchase, leasing and Modarabas have expanded both
financing options available and the role of the private sector in financial
intermediation. M darabas in particular offer the opportunity for project
"     See Annex 3 for a detailed discussion of Islamization.
2/    This instrument has not been actively used.



-9-
sponsors to raise funds directly from the public. Islamization, with its
emphasis on equity or quasi-equity forms of financing investment, should also
lead to a deepening of the capital market. Up to now, most financing have
taken place through mark-ups, both short and long-term, which offer security
of principal and regular income flows, thus avoiding most of the uncertainty
and risk in an Islamic system based on profit-and-loss sharing. Leasing has
been a popular instrument and several leasing companies are in operations.
The Modaraba has also proven to be a successful instrument and its use is
likely to increase further.
3.11     Interest Rates.  Before the full conversion to Islamization,
Pakistan's interest rate structure was characterized by a crossing of rates;
deposit rates rose while lending rates fell with maturity. The interest rate
structure provided a clear incentive for banks to favor short-term lending at
147 and short-term deposits at 5.5% rather than making long-term loans at 11%
and mobilizing term deposits at 9% to 12%. In line with GOP's policy of
liberalizing and increasing the efficiency of the financial system, the
ceiling on long-term interest rate was abolished and the permissible range on
short-term rate was set at 10-20%. However, there is currently no market
determined interest rate for term lending. The nearest proxy is the going
rate for short-term lending which is about 15% p.a. on average plus regular
charges (see Annex 2). The return on TFCs, which are essentially term loans,
is also 15 p.a. plus regular charges appears a reasonable starting point in
pricing long-term loans under the proposed Project. The proposed minimum
lending rate of 15% p.a. (para. 7.05) is also positive and projected to be
substantially positive during the commitment period of the loan. (If sound
macroeconomic policies are pursued as envisaged in the recent Policy Framework
Paper, the inflation rate is projected to be below 7% during 1989-1991). To
permit gradual deregulation of long-term rates and cr&ate a market-based index
for long-term loans, the PFIs would also be given more flexibility in pricing
the individual sub-loan based on assessed risks of each sub-borrower.
3.12     Credit Allocation.  The Government has in the past conducted an
effective and conservative monetary policy which brought down inflation levels
from double digit figures to an average of about 5 percent during the last
three years. Monetary policy aims at achieving credit targets which are
derived from overall monetary growth targets and a forecast of the change in
net foreign assets resulting from the balance of payments. Currently the SBP
is responsible for determining and managing the Annual Credit Plan (ACP) in
close consultation with GOP. The ACP has a central role in determining the
overall level of credit and its distribution, Setting maximum volumes of
lending for each bank and financial institution. Overall ceilings are
disaggregated by economic sector and between private and public sectors. This
detailed system of credit allocation somewhat preempts the intermediating and
allocative functions of the financial system. However, in practice the system
is implemented with considerable flexibility. The National Credit
Consultative Council, charged with developing each ACP, is composed of
representatives of financial institutions and the private sector as well as
government officials. Performance in utilizing credit allocations and the
appropriateness of individual ceilings are reviewed quarterly, with needed



- 10 -
adjustments made. To introduce additional flexibility, the SBP has allowed
financial institutions to trade ceilings within the overall credit expansion
targets and has set up an Industrial Credit Cell to monitor and improve the
flow of credit to the industrial sector. To date the credit allocation system
has functioned reasonably well in channeling resources to priority sectors as
well as meeting the credit needs of private industry. With greater reliance
on market-determined interest rates envisaged under the proposed FSAL (para.
4.02), further relaxation in the credit allocation system may be possible.
3.13     To date, GOP's domestic bank borrowing has not crowded out lending to
the private sector although inadequate domestic resource mobilization efforts
and the increasing financing reqL.rements of a growing economy could squeeze
credit to the rapidly expanding private industrial sector. Given the fiscal
situation it can be expected that the Government will be absorbing a large
proportion of resources from the banking sector. i/ Therefore, there is
clearly a need to widen the sources and methods of financing private sector
industrial investment. Strengthening the stock market, improving incentives
for equity financing and encouraging the development of secondary markets to
enhance the liquidity of long-term and equity financing would widen the
presently restrictive pattern of industrial finance considerably. One of the
main objectives in the preparation and design of the proposed Project has been
to assist GOP in accelerating the growth of the stock market and create a more
active secondary markets for corporate securities (para. 5.04).
D. The Capital Market 2 '
3.14     Structure.  Pakistan has two stock exchanges, one each in Karachi and
Lahore, with the Karachi Stock Exchange (KSE) being the major center of
activity. KSE started in 1949 while the Lahore Stock Exchange was set up in
1970.  Stock exchanges in Pakistan principally trade only the common 3/
shares of companies registered in Pakistan. Under the Companies Ordinance of
1984, corporate entities are not permitted to issue debentures or preference
shares to the general public. Government securities have generally been held
by banks to satisfy liquidity requirements. 4/ Under the proposed FSAL, the
Government securities would be auctioned and a secondary market would be
created (para. 4.02). Stock exchange regulations consists of requirements
imposed by legislation, and those imposed by the stock exchanges on their own
In the FY88 budget, GOP took several concrete measures to reduce the
budget deficits.
2/       See Annex 4 for a more detailed discussion of the Capital Market.
3/       Termed "ordinary" shares in Pakistan.
4/       The current 35% statutory liquidity requirement consists of 30%
invested in approved securities and a minimum reserve requirement of
52 in cash.



- 1i -
members and on publicly listed companies. Legislation consists of the
Securities and Exchange Ordinance (1969), and Rules (1971) and the new
Companies Ordinance (1984). The Corporate Law Authority (CLA) and the
Registrar of Joint Stock Companies are responsible for ensuring compliance
with these Acts. New issues are governed by the requirements of the
Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Ordinance (1970) and the Capital
Issues Act (1947). The latter gives full authority to approve all public
issues to the Controller of Capital Issues (CCI), who is a Joint Secretary in
the Ministry of Finance. The KSE has a fixed membership of 200, of whom about
110 are currently active, but trading is dominated by about 30 members. The
Lahore Scock Exchange has 120 members of which only a handful are active.
Admission is controlled by the Board of each stock exchange. Members must be
citizens of Pakistan, and have a minimum networth criterion of Rs 500,000.
Both stock exchanges have requireiients relating to disclosures but in practice
these are not rigorously enforced. Companies listed on the KSE as of June 30,
1987, cover a wide spectrum of commercial activity with cotton textiles
accounting for 25%, chemicals and pharmaceuticals 9%, sugar and allied
industries 7%. Out of the 376 listed companies, 279 companies were wholly
owned by private investors, and 65 were joint sector companies, the balance 32
multinational companies. Multinational companies have been consistently
amongst the best performers on the stock exchange due to confidence in their
management and higher profitability.
3.15     The two most active participants in the stock market are the
Investment Corporation of Pakistan (ICP) and the National Investment Trust
(NIT). ICP underwrites new issues, operates 17 close-end mutual funds and
also manages an "Investors Scheme" comprising about 10,700 discretionary or
non-discretionary investment accounts with aggregate investment of about Rs
412 million as of June 30, 1987. NIT manages the only open-ended mutual fund
in the country. As of June 30, 1987, NIT had 60,000 unit shareholders with
total invested value of Rs 2.9 billion. The market value of the investments
stood at Rs 4.4 billion, reflecting an unrealized capital gain of Rs 1.4
billion. Shares valued at around Rs 5 billion are held by NIT and ICP
inclusive of the latter's mutual funds and Investor's Scheme. NIT has managed
to ensure a fair return to its unit-holders (currently around 14% against a
sale price of Rs 11.50). The ICP mutual funds have performed well with
dividends of from 13-24.2%.
3.16     Because of the limited role of the stock exchange in financing
industry, the KSE was able to handle the volume of business without much
difficulty. The capital requirement of the individual member was not a
constraint. However, given the increased volume and a greater role which is
expected from the KSE in financing private industry, there is clearly a need
to expand the membership of KSE and increase the capital requirement of the
members. Better capitalized and funded members would be able to operate more
efficiently and accelerate the growth of the market. Corporate membership
will also increase the range of services that would become available to both
institutional and individual members. It is, therefore, recommended that some
DFIs such as NDFC, BEL, and PICIC as well as the new private investment
finance companies be allowed to become members of the stock exchange either



- 12 -
directly or through a subsidiary. The existing brokers on the KSE should be
encouraged to form partnership or incorporated into specialized security
houses. Finally, GOP should also encourage joint venture with foreign
brokerage firms to increase the range of services and professionalism.
3.17     Recent Performance. As a result of improvement in the economy and
in the overall investment climate, the turnover of shares on the KSE has
accelerated rapidly since 1984, corresponding in some degree to the rapid
increase in the same period in the market value of listed shares (Table 2).
Table 2: Karachi Stock Exchange -
Companies, Prices and Turnover
Aggregate
Market Value    General Index of
Number of   Paid-up       of Ordinary      Share Prices       Turnover of
Dec. 31   Companies   Capital         Shares          (1980/81 = 100)      Shares
… ----Rs billion----                              -million-
1981       311 2/         8.1            6.9                99.4             35.3
1982       324            9.4           11.2               114.8             50.2
1983       327           10.0           15.2               148.3             76.0
1984       346           11.5           17.8               168.3            115.7
1985       362           13.6           22.8               166.5             33.1
1986       360           14.4           30.2               199.9            114.0
1987       379           15.8           32.0               228.4            133.5
-/     The Lahore Stock Exchange has 247 listed companies all of which are
listed on the Karachi Stock Exchange as well. Its trading activity is
marginal.
Eight companies delisted.
Source: Karachi Stock Exchange.
3.18     Out of the listed shares about 150 are regularly traded and there is
an active daily market in only 30. Of these, most are blut chip companies,
amongst which multinationals and selected engineering enterprises feature
prominently. Since 1981, paid capital of listed companies has almost doubled
(from Rs 8.1 billion to Rs 15.8 billion), and the market value has more than
quadrupled (from Rs 6.9 billion to Rs 32.0 billion). Although the market
capitalization has increased substantially, its size is small in comparison to
other developing countries such as India (US$19.4 billion), Thailand (US$5.5
billion), Malaysia (US$18.5 billion). The rapid increase in stock prices
reflects some underlying improvements in important segments of industry
(especially cotton textiles, which account for nearly one-third of the listed
companies), revival of basic business confidence, recognition of political
stability, and the Government's policies of increasing the role of private
sector. Another material factor has been returning wealthy Pakistanis from
the Middle East. Generally, most investors in Pakistan both individual and
institutional tend to be income oriented. Cash dividend and high payout ratio



- 13 -
weigh more heavily in their investment decisions than potential capital
gains. In 1986, 181 companies, or about 50% of listed companies declared
dividends.
3.19     Since 1984, the capital markets in Pakistan has been playing an
increasingly important role. In connection with the Second IIC Project, the
Government took a number of concrete measures in the FY86 budget. These
included: (i) reduction in the corporate tax rate for listed companies from
50% to 40% (privately held companies are taxed at 55%); (ii) income tax
exemption on dividend paid by the listed companies; (iii) a decision to allow
private investment finance companies to perform all banking functions except
deposit taking; and (iv) introduction of bearer bonds in foreign and local
currency to attract "black money" and mobilize iditional resources. The
operations of the Karachi and Lahore Stock Exchanges have also been modernized
through technical assistance under the second IIC project. The measures taken
so far have had positive impact on the stock market and the number of listed
companies has increased from 353 to 400. The market capitalization of the
Karachi Stock Exchange reached US$2.0 billion at the end of 1987. However,
the number of listed companies of 400 remains small in comparison to the
15,000 registered companies. In order to further accelerate the development
of capital markets, GOP would need to take additional measures. These are
discussed in para. 5.04.
E. Financial Sector Reforms
3.20     To further improve the efficiency of the financial system and
strengthen the banking system, GOP would be implementing several major
financial reforms over the next few years. The financial sector report
prepared by the Bank in 1988 was instrumental in identifying the areas which
need reforms. The major focus of the reforms in the financial sector would be
on: (i) improving monetary and debt management. GOP would be making a major
change in its funding policy by auctioning Government debts on a pilot basis;
(ii) strengthening the regulatory framework for supervising financial
institutions i/; (iii) improving the accounting policies to increase
transparency in the financial system; and (iv) strengthening of the commercial
banks through an introduction of the management information system,
performance review, and more prudential rates regarding the capital and
provisions for losses. The Bank is working closely with GOP on these areas.
The proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan would assist GOP in implementing
the reforms. The measures related to the equity market and system of
industrial finance under the Third IIC project complement the proposed FSAL.
A subsidiary of SBP is expected to be set up to monitor the non-bank
financial institutions. Initially, the subsidiary will regulate only
leasing companies and private investment companies which are expected to
be licensed in late 1988.



- 14 -
IV. BANK'S INDUSTRIAL LENDING STRATEGY
4.01     The Bank Group strategy in Pakistan encompasses sector work and
lending operations designed to support GOP in achieving its industrial
objectives of efficient industrialization. To achieve this objective, the
Bank assistance is provided according to the outward-oriented and market-based
strategy for industrial development. The Bank Group has carried out extensive
work in the area of trade policies, r. latory framework, and financial
sector. Based on those analyses, the bank's sectoral assistance strategy has
been mapped into a sequence of structural reforms in the medium-term, which is
both consistent with and complements Pakistan's current priority objective of
macroeconomic adjustment. With a more manageable macroeconomic framework, the
country will also be able to weather immediate repercussions of structural
reforms. In sequencing the structural policies, the Government has correctly
taken the first important step through deregulation of many business decisions
in the industrial sector. Here, it is important to note that actual and
potential size of Pakistan's domestic market is enormous -- raising
competition and contestability of domestic markets through deregulation is at
least as important as foreign competition through trade liberalization.
Moreover, industrial producers' hands have been significantly untied from
regulatory constraints in order to combat external competition at home and
abroad. While pursuing the remaining agenda for deregulation, the next step
is to reform financial sector and trade policies. In view of the potentially
negative implication on the balance of payments in the short term, trade
policy reform must be implemented in close coordination with appropriate
macroeconomic and exchange rate policies. Both trade liberalization and
domestic deregulation imply substantial adjustments for firms and workers.
The management of the economic and social adjustment cost of this transition
process will require close attention in the Bank's assistance strategy. The
trade policy reforms, however, can strain the economy's financial system,
since the intended shifts in relative prices and profitabilities of past
investments mean business rationalization, restructuring, and even
bankruotcies along with new investments. An important ingredient in the
adjustment process is therefore a healthy financial sector that can survive a
substantial change in profitability of its loan portfolio, move investment
funds according to new incentives in the real sector, and provide the credit
to help firms adapt to the new environment. Thus, the trade policy reforms
must be coupled with financial sector reforms, designed to prevent temporary
financial distress from becoming a systemic one and to improve efficiency of
financial intermediation. An appropriate macroeconomic framework is also the
prerequisite here, since the deficit financing pressures on the financial
system must be eased.
4.02     The Bank's strategy for the financial sector is to assist the
Government in broadening and deepening financial markets to support an
expansion of private investment and savings. Currently credit flows are
administered through a system of nationalized commercial banking with overall
credit ceilings, segmented credit markets with mandatory targets at subsidized



- 15 -
interest rates and high reserve requirements to provide captive funds for
government financing at below market rates. The capital markets still play a
limited role in mobilizing resources. The proposed FSAL would serve as the
umbrella under which needed financial sector reforms would be undertaken.
Under this loan the Government would: (a) reduce segmentation of financial
markets and develop capital markets by (i) introducing a system to auction
Government debt, (ii) raising concessional rates of interest, (iii) limiting
directed credit schemes; and (b) strengthen the health of the banking system
and increasing competition by (i) recapitalizing and restructuring the
nationalized commercial banks, (ii) improving prudential regulations and bank
supervision, (iii) increasing the autonomy and accountability of the
nationalized commercial banks, and (iv) allowing private domestic banks to
enter the market.
4.03     As of June 30, 1987, the Bank/IDA cumulative commitments to Pakistan
amounted to about US$5.2 billion of which US$1.2 billion or 23% was for
industry both private and public. For project investment in the private
sector, the Bank Group has made 18 loans totalling US$ 769 million through the
financial intermediaries. Eleven loans and credits totalling US$ 230 million
have been made to PICIC for on-lending to medium- and large-scale private
sector projects. The last direct loan to PICIC was made in 1980. Four loans
and credits totalling US$ 129 million have been made to IDBP and through NCBs
to provide term loans directly to a large number of small-scale industries
(SSIs). In 1984, under the first IIC project (Ln. 2380-PAK Cr. 1434-PAK) a
credit line of $100 million was made available to three DFIs (NDFC, PICIC, and
IDBP) and one commercial bank (Habib Bank Ltd.) to be utilized on a first come
first served basis. Because of the rapid commitment, a second IIC Project of
US$ 150 million was made in 1986 and the number of intermediaries was
increased to 6 (three DFIs and three NCBs). The Bank Group's lending to the
public manufacturing sector up to June 30, 1987 amounted to US$430 million
consisting of four fertilizer loans (US$161 million), refinery engineering
(US$12 million), industrial estate (US$6.5 million), industrial imports
(US$220 million). In addition, a credit line of US$30 million was channelled
through NDFC for on-lending to public manufacturing enterprises.
4.04     First and Second IIC Projects. In 1983, the Bank Group concluded that in
addition to institution building, industrial and financial sector policy
reforms should be an essential objective of future Bank Group lending to the
industrial sector. It was also decided that the practice of lending to an
individual financial institution be replaced by lending through multiple
institutions to improve the efficiency of the system through increased
competition. The first IIC project expanded the Bank's involvement in the
financial system through the use of commercial banks as well as DFIs as
intermediaries for term lending to medium- and large scale industries.
Initially, the Habib Bank Ltd. and the United Bank Ltd. were included. The
use of a larger number of more efficient institutions has benefited the
investors by reducing the project processing time and increasing the range of
services that can be obtained from a single institution. The implementation
of the project was highly satisfactory. Under the second IIC project, one
more commercial bank, the Muslim Commercial Bank, was included and the



- 16 -
National Bank of Pakistan became eligible for technical assistance. All six
PFIs were allowed to compete on a first come first served basis. Also, the
three DFIs were given the equal opportunity to compete. For example, the
Charter of IDBP was amended so that it could make working capital loans and
take full advantage of its status of being a scheduled bank. PICIC was given
a license by the SBP to offer import-export finance. NDFC's Charter was
amended so it could lend to both public and private sectors. Taxation was
equalized so each institution is taxed on the same basis. The second IIC
project was also instrumental in bringing about changes in policies related to
capital market development (para. 3.19). By having direct involvement with
the major players in the financial system, the Bank's dialogue on financial
sector has been enhanced. The implementation of the second IIC project is
proceeding well and the loan was committed well ahead of the schedule.
4.05     The first IIC project originated in the need to deal with the system
of industrial finance as a whole, rather than concentrating solely on the
problems of the individual institutions. In viewing the system as a whole and
discussing general industrial finance issues with the Government, the Bank was
able to continue to strengthen the DFIs and bring about necessary institutional
reforms in all the PFIs without affecting the flow of credit to private
industry. The Second IIC project further expanded the credit delivery system,
as well as addressing selected capital market issues. The experience so far
has been satisfactory, the flow of credit to industry has been improved and
the performance of the PFIs as a group has been upgraded. The proposed
Project will build on the experience gained under the First and Second IIC
projects and focus on the development of the equity market as well as
continuing the institution building programs at the PFIs.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
5.01     The proposed Project will support GOP's policy of promoting private
industrial investment uxider the Seventh Plan. The demand for credits under
the second IIC project has far exceeded the expectation and, in particular
there is a need to make adequate foreign exchange resources available to the
PFIs to maintain momentum. The specific objectives of the proposed Project
are as follows:
(a) to assist GOP in accelerating the growth of equity markets
through necessary policy changes and technical assistance;
(b) to improve credit delivery system for industrial finance by
focusing on the system as well as the individual financial
intermediaries;
(c) to assist the PFIs especially PICIC and IDBP in their
operational diversification programs and to continue institution
building programs of PFIs;



- 17 -
(d) to address selected important corporate finance issues such as
bridge loans, and more market-oriented interest rate to foster
efficient industrial growth; and
(e) to ensure a stable flow of long-term foreign exchange resources
to private industry.
Under the proposed Project, the coverage of term-lending facilities will be
expanded from six to seven major financial institutions (three DFIs and four
NCBs). Together, they will be covering about 80% of the financial system.
The National Bank of Pakistan will have access to the Bank's funds for the
first time.
B. Project Description and Design
5.02     The proposed Project would involve a loan of US$148 million and an
IDA credit of US$2 million equivalent to GOP. GOP will on-lend the funds to
eligible PFIs on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The seven PFIs
will on-lend the Bank's funds to viable private industry in all subsectors.
The PFIs will be responsible for appraising projects in accordance with Bank
standards. All projects will include calculations of Internal Economic Rate
of Return (IERR) and Domestic Resource Cost (DRC) in addition to the Internal
Financial Rate of Return (FRR). The Bank loan to GOP will be on standard
terms and conditions for Pakistan, i.e., 20 years including a grace period of
5 years. GOP will on-lend the bank funds to the PFIs for a period of up to 15
years including a grace period of three years. GOP will on-lend the Bank's
funds to PFIs at 12% p.a. in Rupees. As under the second IIC project, all
PFIs will receive a spread of 3% and bear the credit risk. PFIs will on-lend
the Bank's funds to final borrowers at rates the market would bear, but the
minimum interest rate would be 15% p.a. (see para. 7.05). The Bank's funds
will be made available to PFIs on a first-come first-served basis. GOP will
bear the commitment fee until the Bank has authorized sub-projects to the
PFIs. Based on the experience gained during the first and second IIC project,
the maximum and minimum sizes of the subloan would be US$6 million and US$0.75
million respectively. The new lower limit will make it possible to service
the lower end of the medium-sized industries and bridge the gap between the
IIC and SSI projects. To ensure a sound capital structure and strong
commitment from the sponsors, the maximum debt:equity ratio of subprojects
financed under the proposed project will normally be 60:40. Bridge loan will
be considered as debt (para 5.05). PFIs will also be required to certify
that the sponsors are not in default with other financial institutions. The
appraisal reports will also include a statement on the environmental impact of
each investment and, when warranted, the appropriate remedial actions. To
ensure timely implementation of sanctioned projects, the Bank's commitment
will be withdrawn if the letter of credit is not opened within nine months
after the date of authorization by the Bank. However, the Bank will consider
waiving this requirement on a case by case basis. Specific eligibility
criteria has been established for each PFI (Chapter IV).



- 18 -
C. Equity Market Development
5.03     The Second IIC project supported the Government's objectives of
developing the capital markets. GOP took several measures which have had
positive impact on the capital markets (para. 3.19). The listing on KSE has
increased and the demand for high quality paper remains high as evident by
high level of over-subscription of new issues. There is generally a shortage
of high quality corporate securities. The number of listed companies of 403
remains small in comparision to the 15,000 registered companies. Funds
mobilized through new issues have increased substantially to Rs. 890 million
in 1988 from Rs. 68 million in 1983 but remains negligible relative to the
size of private industrial investment. GOP has taken sufficient fiscal
measures to stimulate demand for corporate securities. However, additional
measures to increase the supply of high quality securities and improve the
operations of the secondary market are needed to accelerate the growth of the
equilty market. These measures are discussed below.
5.04     First, the pricing of new issues in the stock market should be left
completely to the market participants. The CCI is currently responsible for
pricing new issues. All new issues are required to be priced at "break-up
value" subject to a maximum of 200 per cent of book-value. This formula, in
many instances, serves as a powerful disincentive on companies to seek
listing. The high level of over-subscription on new issues is partly
explained by the almost certain capital gain which the present pricing formula
provides to investors. It is, therefore, recommended that the valuation of
companies seeking a listing should be left to sponsors and their underwriters,
determined in accordance with market principles. Rather than emphasizing the
"break-up value" of the company, this approach would place emphasis on the
earnings potential of the comapny, its dividend pay-out policy, and potential
capital appreciation. Second, the infrastructure for underwriting of
securities should be improved and deregulated. The number of participants in
the stock market is limited and most brokers are under-capitalized.
Therefore, they are unable to perform an underwriting function which is badly
needed. Better capitalized members of the stock exchange would greatly
facilitate underwriting of new issues. The present underwriting fee for new
companies, which is set by the CCI, is 2.5% with a further 2.5% payable on
take-up. Both situations should be replaced by a fee freely negotiated
between sponsor and underwriter(s) to reflect market conditions. A corrollary
to freely determine underwriting commissions is that underwriters should be
drawn from a much larger network than at present and should include all
interested DFIs and private investment finance companies. -he existing
brokers on the KSE should also be encouraged to form partnership or
incorporated into specialized security houses. Third, the use of debt finance
should be reduced so that there is more incentive to raise equity. In this
connection the use of bridge loans should be minimized (para. 5.05). Fourth,
the corporate sector should be allowed to issue Participation Terms
Certificates (PTCs) directly to the public. PTCs are basically convertible
debentures and would provide the corporate sector with more flexibility in
raising funds directly from the public. Fifth, to increase the distribution



- 19 -
network for shares in the country, commercial banks should be allowed to
perform trust function on behalf of their clients. Since the appraisal of the
Project in July 1988, GOP has acted on some of the recommendations discussed
above. Starting september 1, 1988, listed companies are allowed to issue PTCs
directly to the public. The CCI has also become more flexible in the pricing
of new issues although no formal instructions have yet been issued. During
negotiations, an agreement was reached with GOP on the implementation of the
remaining measures as follows: (i) GOP will take necessary measures to allow
financial institutions to become members of the Karachi Stock Exchange by
December 31, 1.989; and (ii) GOP will issue guidelines on bridge loans to be
followed uniformly by all financial institutions by June 30, 1989. In
December 1988 GOP issued a statement clarifying its policy regarding the
pricing of new issues.
5.05     Excessive Leverage/Bridge Loans.  A large number of projects financed
during the last three years were highly leveraged and concentrated in the
textile sector. The present financing pattern is based on a debt/equity ratio
of 60-40%. However, only 22.5% is required in sponsor's equity with the
balance of 17.5% provided in the form of bridge loans. Some institutions also
do not require the sponsors to deposit their equity contribution at loan
signing. Since there is a time lag of about one year between the time of
opening the letter of credit and negotiating documents, there is usually an
increase in cost of machinery. The resulting financing gap is generally
financed by the lending institution. As a result, the effective debt/equity
ratio is closer to 90:10. Furthermore, it tends to take another year or two
to implement the project and the stake of the investor becomes negligible.
The bridge loans of the profitable companies are repaid when called and they
normally do not issue shares to the public, while the companies with poor
records are not in a position to sell their shares. Therefore, the present
practice and regulations need to be reviewed to promote a sound industrial
growth. In this connection, it is recommended that: bridge loans be included
as debt in the debt/equity ratio of 60:40 for projects financed under the Bank
project. In order for them to implement the project the sponsors should be
encouraged to raise the funds directly from the stock market either in the
form of shares or PTCs.
D. The Credit Delivery System for Industry
5.06     Institutional Upgrading. The design of the Project would enable the
Bank Group to work with GOP in a systematic manner to address the problems
affecting the flows of industrial credit. The capability of PFIs would be
reinforced through implementation of the operational diversification programs
of PICIC and IDBP and institutional improvements at other institutions. Funds
would also be channeled through NCBs which have become an important source of
private industry iiivestment, and whose role would continue to increase under
the Seventh Plan. Under the proposed Project, appraisal and supervision
capabilities of the NCBs would be strengthened further and their participation
would enable them to provide clients with a full range of banking services
including foreign exchange term loans. By involving the NCBs in the First and
Second IIC projects, the Bank Group is now in a better position to discuss



- 20 -
issues relating to the entire banking system and industrial finance. The
broader policy aspects would be addressed under the proposed FSAL (para. 4.02).
5.07     Rationalization of Regulations Affecting DFI. Although IDBP, NDFC and
PICIC lend to similar target groups, each is subject to different regulatory
controls. IDBP is a scheduled bank and falls under the supervision of the
SBP. NDFC is an autonomous agency under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of
Finance. PICIC is a private c,mpany and is supposed to operate independently,
although 49% of its share capital is held by public sector institutions. With
their different legal structures and organizational arrangements, the DFIs
operated under different parameters which created anomalies both in the
services they were able to provide and in the fiscal treatment of their
profits. However, their differences have been largely corrected in connection
with the First and Second IIC projects as shown in Table 3 below.
Table 3: Comparison of Services Offered by DFIs
IDBP           NDFC             PICIC
Term Loans                            yes              yes             yes
Deposits /a                           yes              yes             no
Export Finance and Foreign Exchange yes                yes             yes
Corporate Tax                         yes              yes             yes
Sanctioning Authority                 yes              yes             yes
Working Capital Loans                 yes              yes             yes
-a   IDBP, as a scheduled bank, can take deposits, but has only recently begun
to do so.  PICIC, as a private company, is prevented from taking deposits
by the Bank's Nationalization Act of 1974.
5.08     Under the First and Second IIC projects, GOP took a number of
measures to rectify the operating anomalies. An amendment to IDBP's Act in
November 1983 expanded the scope of its operations; IDBP now is active in
making working capital loans and plans to mobilize additional domestic
resources through deposits (para. 6.17). In 1985, NDFC was granted
sanctioning authority fo. new investments, which was previously limited to
IDBP and PICIC. I'  PICIC now is allowed to mobilize local currency
resources in the form of interbank deposits, debentures, and notes to the
public. PICIC has also received a license from SBP to offer import-export
finance to its clients. In 1987, the tax exempt status of NDFC and BEL was
This authority was later extended to all PFIs under the Bank and ADB
loans. By adoptinig this policy GOP has de facto left the investment
decisions to the financial institutions which are better equipped to
evaluate projects than GOP.



- 21 -
withdrawn to correct the anomaly which existed among the DFIs. With these
changes, the three DFIs now operate under largely similar operations
procedures and parameters.
5.09     There is a need to further rationalize DFI regulations so that they
can provide their clients with more comprehensive financial services, thus
facilitating project implementation. The conditions under which NDFC operates
should be considered as a model for PICIC and IDBP to allow them to diversify
and provide a full range of banking services. This will mean that PICIC and
IDBP would need to transform themselves from specialized term iending
institutions to institutions capable of providing broader range of financial
services. Under the proposed Project, PICIC and IDBP will be implementing
agreed business diversification programs (paras. 6.17 & 6.24).
E. Technical Assistance
5.10     The proposed Project includes a technical assistance component of
US$2.0 million equivalent, divided into four subcomponents: (i) organization
and system studies, (ii) training and necessary equipment; (iii) subsector
studies, (iv) programs aimed at strengthening the capabilities of the
Corporate Loans Authority in view of its increasing role in the capital
market; and (v) activities to support the financial sector reforms envisaged
by GOP (para. 3.23). Funds would be reallocated based on the demand for
services. A major part of the training component will be used by the
participating PFIs to fund their programs to upgrade their appraisal
capabilities. PICIC and BTTRP are expected to utilize the funds for
Lmplementing the business diversification programs agreed upon during
negotiations. The technical assistance funds will be made available to the
PFIs as development expenditure on a first-come first-serve basis. Training
program proposals from the PFIs would be reviewed and agreed upon during
negotiations. The Bank Group will review and approve all technical assistance
sub-projects.
F. Project Cost and Financig Plan
5.11     Private industrial investment has remained buoyant.  During the
1982/83-1987/88 period, the private industrial investment increased from
Rs. 5.4 billion to Rs. 13.8 billion, an annual increase of 26.4% p.a. in
current prices. The investment in medium- and large-scale industry (MLSI)
grew at a faster rate of 30% p.a. in current prices. Given the average
inflation rate of about 7% p.a. during the period, the growth in private
investment has been impressive. The percentage of private industrial
investment in constant 1982/83 prices increased from 51% of the total
industrial investment in 1982/83 to 89% in 1987/88. Under the Seventh Five-
Year Plan (1988-1993), industrial investment of Rs 103 billion (US$5.7
billion) is projected. Private industrial investment is projected at Rs 91
billion (US$4.1 billion), or about 90% of total industrial investment. Out of
the Rs 91 billion, MLSI is estimated a. Rs 69 biilion, and Rs 22.7 billion for
SSI at 1988 constant prices. The projected composition of the investment
would be as follows:  engineering (25%), textiles (287), chemical products
(16%), small-scale industries (23%), and others (87).



- 22 -
5.12     Out of Rs 69 billion projected industrial investment in mediwu- and
large-scale industry (MLSI), about 55% (US$2.1 bil'ion) would be in foreign
exchange. This figure is in line with the recent zrend. Annex 5 shows
projected private industrial investment ever 1988-91 period, the commitment
period of the proposed third IIC project. Projected investments in MLSI
during the period are estimated at Rs. 42.1 billion of which Rs. 16.8 billion
(US$1.4 billion) in foreign exchange. Taking into consideration the existing
available resources of the DFIs, current and future ADB loans, suppliers'
credits and bilateral sources, there will be a gap of about US$527 million.
Out of this amount the proposed Bank project of US$150 million (US$148 million
in loan and US$2 million in credit) would cover 50% of a total financing
package of US$298 million. The balance of 50% would be covered by sponsors
and participating financial institutions. It is expected that the entire Bank
loan will be fully committed within two years after effectiveness.
VI. PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (PFIs)
A. Participating NCBs
6.01     Three NCBs (HBL, UBL and MCB) participated under the Second IIC
project. The National Bank of Pakistan (NBP), the second largest commercial
bank was included in the technical assistance component. Based on the
assessment carried out during the appraisal it was concluded that NBP should
be included as a PFI in the proposed Project subject to its meeting the agreed
eligibility criteria. Annexes 6-9 provide assessment of the four NCBs. As of
December 31, 1987, the total assets of the four NCBs amounted to Rs 354.3
billion (US$20 billion), or 83% of the assets of the banking system. Among
the four NCBs, HBL is the most established and well managed. Since 1983 HBL
has demonstrated its ability to handle project finance in professional
manner. It has built up a good team of professionals in its Industrial Credit
Division. The divisior is responsible for appraising project proposals for
the Bank, ADB, suppliers credits, and consortium financing. It has met all
eligibility criteria and has been an active participant in the First and
Second IIC projects. Although UBL was included in the First IIC project, it
was unable to access Bank funds as they were fully committed by that time.
Through recruitment of new staff and extensive training under the Bank
financed technical assistance UBL has established a strong Industrial Credit
Division. The division is well staffed and is supervised by a senior member
board. UBL was an active larticipant under the Second IIC Project and is in
full compliance with the eligibility criteria. MCB was included in the Second
IIC project as a PFI and within a very short time developed a well managed
Industrial Credit Division and became an active participant. It has done so
mainly through external hiring of professional staff from the DFIs. It has
also taken full advantage of the technical assistance program. MCB is also in
full compliance with the agreed eligibility criteria. As mentioned earlier,
NBP will be included for the first time in the project subject to its meeting
the agreed eligibility criteria (paras. 6.02 and 6.03).



- 23 -
6.02     Participation Conditions.  During appraisal agreements were reached
with GOP and the NCBs on the participaticn conditions for the NCBs. These are
summarized in Table 4 below and were confirmed during negotiations. They will
be included in their subsidiary loan agreements and minutes of negotiations.
Table 4: Participation conditions for NCBs
HBL   UBL   MCB   NBP
Approval of Investment Policy by Board of Directors         x     x     x      x
Approval of Strategy Statement by Board of Directors        x     x     x      x
Approval of Training Programs (1988-91)                     x     x     x      x
Establishment of Organization set up for project finance                       x
All of the abovementioned conditions have been met.  Therefore, all seven PFIs
are eligible to participate under the proposed Project.
Eligiblity Criteria for Access to Loan Funds
6.03    During negotiations agreement was reached with GOP and NCBs that the
NCBs access to the Bank funds would depend on the compliance with the
conditions in Table 5 below:
Table 5: Eligibility Criteria for Access to Bank Funds
HBL      URBL      MOB       NBP
Maintenance of collection ratios               x         x        x          x
Establishment of the Ind. Credit Div.                                        x
Implement. of the agreed training program                                   x
B. Participating DFls
6.04     Subject to fulfillment of participating conditions and eligibility
criteria discussed in this section, the three DFIs (IDBP, PICIC, and NDFC)
have been selected to participate in the proposed project. A detailed
analysis of the operations and prospects of each institution is given in
Annexes 10 to 12.
National Development Finance Corporation'
6.05     NDFC was set up in 1973 as the bank for public sector enterprises.
However, with the change in Government policy in 1977 NDFC's Charter was
amended in 1983 to enable it to provide financial services to both public and
private sectors. NDFC has now become the largest of the development banks in
Pakistan with total assets of Rs 16.4 billion as of the end of 1987. It
currently has 30 branches and expects to open three more in 1988. NDFC's
operations are also the most diversified and include substantial working
capital loans, underwriting, syndications, equity investments, foreign
.-/ Annex 10 provides a detailed discussion of NDFC.



- 24 -
exchange services, and consultancy. NDFC has been successful in raising
resources from the market through various deposit schemes, bond/debenture
issues. In 1987, it raised Yen 30 billion (about US$ 20 million) through a
private placement which was the first successful issue by a Pakistani
financial institution in the Tokyo market. Furthermore, NDFC promoted the
establishment of other non-bank financial institutions such as three leasing
companies, a regional finance company, a training and development institute,
and a management/consultancy group. It is currently in the process of forming
a private investment company with the participation of private and
multilateral organizations. In 1987, NDFC updated its policy and strategy
statements which includes its general policies on investments and financial
guidelines. These policies include NDFC's maximum exposure to single
enterprises, maximum size of eligible projects, debt/equity ratios of
enterprises, size and exposure of its equity investments, retention of 50% of
profits to reserves, and protection against foreign exchange risks.
6.06     NDFC experienced an average growth rate of 302 p.a. until 1987.  In
view of tighter competition in both its sourcing and lending operations, NDFC
projects a lower average growth of about 15 over the 1989-91 period. Its
recent experience suggests a slower growth in short-term deposits and working
capital loans; much of its growth would be in long-term lending and
borrowings. Administrative expenses in relation to total assets is projected
to slightly increase starting in 1988. NDFC should monitor these items
closely. NDFC expects to maintain its spread at around 3.5% which is
adequate. Due to higher gearing ratio, its return on equity would improve to
about 18% which is satisfactory.  Howevcr, its debt service coverage ratio
(DSCR) will be declining as more debt is incurred and higher repayments become
due on existing debts. Given its high short-term deposits and need to
maintain liquid reserves, NDFC needs to maintain its high DSCR of about six.
This will also require an increase in equity to maintain its debt/equity ratio
within 7:1. NDFC would have had to raise about Rs 110 million in new equity
to be within this gearing ratio. Its projections show an additional equity of
about Rs 50 million should be adequate through 1990. During negotiation, an
agreement was reached with NDFC and GOP on the amount and timing of equity
contribution. NDFC will be required to maintain a debt/ equity ratio of at
least 7:1 to remain eligible under the proposed Project. In 1987, NDFC's
provisions for doubtful debts more than doubled compared to 1986. This raised
its accumulated provisions to Rs 330 million equivalent to 3.2% of gross loan
and investment but increasing to 3.8% by 1990. These should be sufficient
assuming cash collection ratio is maintained at about 88% which would contain
arrears to about the level of 11% as in 1987.
6.07     Prospects/Project Pipeline.  In Pakistan, NDFC is the most experienced
in terms of merchant banking operations and has successfully built-up its
deposit mobilization capabilities and organization. It has shown flexibility
to adapt to changing situations and is active in doing subsector research for
its project promotion and corporate/financial planning. NDFC can now provide
complete financial packages to industrial enterprises. NDFC plans to expand
on its non-fund operations and foreign exchange/export business. Its major
objective is to preserve/improve the quality of its operations in



- 25 -
view of the tighter competition in the system and projects a slower but
adequate and diversified growth in business which is appropriate. In summary,
local currency loans are expected to decrease from 20% of total approvals in
1987 (actual) to less than 102 by 1990 while foreign currency loans would
increase to 10% from 72 in 1987.  Working capital loan would still account for
the bulk of its gross approvals but would be declining on an incremental
basis. For the period 1988-1990, NDFC projects foreign currency loan
approvals of US$ 220 million. NDFC's pipeline is large to meet these
projections which amounted to US$374 million as of June 30, 1988. This
pipeline does not reflect fully the impact of potential projects in the energy
sector which was recently opened to the private sector and considered for
financing under another Bank project. Overall, NDFC is a mature, well-managed
financial institution; it should continue to show satisfactory financial
performance and be able to meet the eligibility criteria and be an active PFI
under the proposed Project.
6.08     Participation Condition.  The only participation condition for NDFC
under the proposed Project is the formal approval of its updated Policy
Statement by its Board of Directors.
6.09     Eligibility Criteria.  NDFC's continuing access to the Bank Loans will
be subject to the following criteria.
(i) Maintenance of a minimum debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) of 1.25;
(ii) Maintenance of a minimum overall collection rate of 85X; and
(iii) Maintenance of a maximum debt/equity ratio of 7:1
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP)
6.10     Annex 11 provides a detailed discussion of IDBP.  IDBP was
established in 1961 to provide term finance to SSEs. During the sixties IDBP
was considered a well managed institution and was the major so':rce of foreign
exchange term finance for SSEs particularly in the textile sector. However,
the Seventies proved to be an exceptionally difficult period for IDBP.
Separation of East Pakistan in 1971, devaluation of the rupee in 1972 by 132%
and the nationalisation of some of the major private industries (chemical and
heavy engineering) led to a decline in private industrial investment and a
general disruption of the economy. The textile industry, which accounted for
more than 50% of IDBP's loan portfolio, was particularly adversely affected by
reduced exports due to international recession in demand. Many IDBP borrowers
defaulted on their foreign currency loans resulting in IDBP facing serious
financial problems.
6.11     Thus by 1980, IDBP was faced with serious repayment arrears
exacerbated by internal administrative problems including loss of some of its
experienced staff. The Bank and ADB worked closely with GOP to rehabilitate
IDBP (and PICIC which also faced similar problems). In this connection, GOP
took a number of concrete measures which included establishment of the
Committee for Sick Industrial Units, regular meetings chaired by the Finance
Secretary to review collection performance of arrears and introduction of the



- 26 -
Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme. IDBP was also financially restructured
and new management was appointed. Because of these concerted efforts, IDBP
has been able to strengthen its financial condition, improve collections,
particularly of new loans, increase its volume of business, profitability, and
collections especially for post 1980 loans which are covered under the foreign
exchange risk coverage scheme. IDBP is also taking additional measures to
enable it to function better in a more competitive financial environment.
6.12     IDBP's term loan approvals have increased from Rs. 1.1 billion in
1984 to Rs. 2.7 billion in 1988, of which foreign currency loans account for
Rs. 1.7 billion or 63%. Working capital loans increased sharply from Rs. 89
million in 1984 to Rs.l.l billion outstanding at the end of FY88. Most of
these loans were guaranteed by the commercial banks which did not have
sufficient credit ceilings. Direct working capital loans by IDBP have thus
far been limited. Total term loans disbursed amounted to Rs. 1.0 billion in
FY88. During FY84-88, IDBP's lending operations covered a wide range of
industrial subsectors. The overall dominance of the textile sector, however,
has been gradually declining from its pre-1981 position (more than 50% of
total approvals) as a result of deliberate policy towards less traditional
industries such as chemicals, engineering and food processing.   Lately,
however, the bulk of IDBP's approvals have again gone to the textile sector
which forms a major part of "IDBP's projects in pipeline". This has happened
in view of the prevalent boom in the textile industry.
6.13     Although IDBP's portfolio management has improved since 1982 specific
targets were set under the First and Second IIC projects to intensify recovery
efforts. IDBP has substantially met these targets (Table 6).
Table 6: IDBP-Collection Targets under IIC I & II for FY87-88
and Actual Performance
FY87                   FY88
Target   Actual        Target   Actual
Cash Collection (Rs million)   600         590           750      704
Total Collection X                45        55            55       52
Minimum Collection Ratio
(Current dues)                    75        75           75        81
Portfolio infection ratio %       35        37            25       36
6.14     IDBP's financial performance has been steadily improving through the
1980s. Net income rose from Rs 34 million in FY83 to 57 million in FY87. The
total assets tripled from Rs 2.7 billion in FY83 to about Rs. 9.0 billion in
FY88. Over the same period, the long term portfolio has increased from Rs.
2.7 billion to Rs. 6.2 billion and the working capital loan portfolio from nil
to Rs. 1.1 billion. IDBP's financial ratios have remained within the limits
laid down under the IIC II project and in FY88, the debt/equity ratio stood at
4.6, which was within the limit of 7:1, debt service coverage ratio at 1.21



- 27 -
(limit not below 1.2), return on equity at 15% (limit not below 12%). In 1987
the ratio of administrative expenses to average total assets was 0.96%. This
is satisfactory. In FY88, net income rose by 21%. Overall, IDBP's liquidity
position remains satisfactory.
6.15     Despite notable improvements in sanctions, commitments, and
disbursements for IDBP to achieve a stronger financial position, there is a
need to reduce the high proportion of non-performing assets and improve the
current overall collection ratio of about 5so. As of June 30, 1988, 36% of
the portfolio was affected by arrears. The major problem in recoveries of
arrears is the cumbersome legal system where the courts are overburden with
the numbers of cases and the system allows delaying tactics by respondents.
However, this is a problem common to all DFIs and NCBs, and would therefore,
be addressed under the proposed FSAL. Nevertheless, IDBP needs to make
further special efforts to recover old dues (over two years) which are about
80% of total arrears. For recoveries of loans made after 1981, IDBP also
needs to improve upon the current collection ratio of 74% and raise it to at
least 80% by 1990 to avoid building up of arrears against current loans.
Under the proposed FSAL Project GOP is considering stringent guidelines for
non-performing loans and provisioning. This is likely to require higher
provisions for non-performing assets and thus possibly a need for fresh equity
injection. IDBP has agreed to carry out a portfolio audit to determine the
extent of financial restructuring needed under the proposed accounting rules
and make adequate provisions in consultation with its auditors.
6.16     Business Diversification.  Even when assessed on a post 1981 basis, IDBP
may not be able to survive as a single product institution. Thus there is an
urgent need for it to diversify its product mix and engage in financial
operations which are more profitable, utilising the framework of its present
charter as a full scheduled bank. There are opportunities for IDBP also in
merchant banking as the financial sector continues to diversify and capital
and money markets continue to develop. IDBP must augment its sources of
income from non-fund business and more profitable funding operations. A
timebound action plan for product diversification is shown in the Attachment 3
of Annex 11 under which IDBP intends to undertake business activities in the
area of export-import finance, deposit mobilization, leasing and increased
short term lending. In the area of leasing, IDBP has already approach-d the
Central Board of Revenue to avail of depreciation allowance for income tax
purposes which is available to other leasing companies. Ability to carry out
these activities will depend very much on management's commitment. In order
for IDBP to implement the plan it will need to recruit key staff externally
including some at the senior level, and this should be done as a matter of
urgency. It also needs to accelerate the training of its present staff
although this will be slow. The success of IDBP in this area will depend very
much how effectively it utilizes consultants. IDBP's operational targets for
commercial/merchant banking operation are shown in Annex 11. IDBP is well
placed to implement the above diversification plan as it is already a
scheduled bank, but its management would thus need to make special efforts



- 28 -
to transform IDBP into a universal bank. During negotiations an agreement was
reached with IDBP on a specific timetable to implement the business
diversification program, in order that it may qualify for access to Bank funds
under the proposed Project.
6.17     Projected Financial Conditions and Results:  IDBP's projected financial
statements for FY88-91 are provided in the Annex 11. During the period,
IDBP's assets are projected to increase from RS. 8.5 billion in FY88 to Rs.
14.2 billion in FY91, or an annual increase of 18.7% p.a. The composition of
the assets is projected to change structurally with domestic currency loans
increasing to about two third of the loan portfolio by the end of FY91.
Working capital loans are projected to double from Rs. 1.3 billion in FY88 to
Rs. 2.7 billion. The provisions for losses are projected to increase to Rs.
1.2 billion, or about 9% of the outstanding portfolio. This, together with
the reserves in the suspense account should be adequate to cover possible
losses. IDBP would be in compliance with the debt/equity ratio requirement of
7:1 unless it was to make substantial additional provisions which may be
required under the rules proposed under FSAL (para 6.15). In that case there
will be a need for additional equity from GOP. IDBP's projected income
statement shows net income would increase from Rs. 69 million in FY88 to Rs.
134 Ajillion in FY90 and then decline to Rs. 109 million in FY91 because of the
expected tax benefits from leasing operations. Return on equity is projected
to average 15% which is satisfactory. The administrative expenses are
projected to remain below 1% of average total assets. This is satisfactory.
Debt Service Coverage Ratio over the period is projected to remain above 1.25,
which is adequate.  Ifbr; s financial performance and porLuiiu Ilidiiagellint-It will
continue to be monitored carefully during the supervision and future Bank/ADB
collection review meecings which are expected to be held twice a year.
6.18     Participation Conditions. The participation conditions for IDBP under
the proposed Project are the formal approval by its Board of Directors of:
(i) the revised Strategy Statement; and (ii) the business diversification
program.
6.19     Eligibility Criteria.  IDEP's access to Bank funds would be subject to:
(i) Implementation of the agreed business plan (attachment 3 of Annex 11);
(ii) Maintenance of a minimum Debt Service Coverage Ratio of 1.25.;
(iii) Maintenance of long-term debt: equity ratio of 7:1; (iv) Achievement of
the collection ratio of 75% in FY89 and 80% in FY90; and (v) Implementation of
the plan for handling non-performing assets.
Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation Limited (PICIC)
6.20     A detailed assessment of PICIC is provided in Annex 12.  PICIC was
established in 1957, with Bank Group assistance to provide term finance, in
local and foreign currencies, to private industry and to play a key role in
capital market development through direct purchase and underwriting of shares
and debentures. During the 1960s PICIC was well-managed and became the major
source of foreign exchange term finance for private industrial investment in



- 29 -
the cement, sugar and textile sectors, which today are important subsectors of
Pakistan's economy. However, the 1970s proved to be an exceptionally
difficult period for PICIC. The separation of Bangladesh, the 1972
devaluation of the rupee by 131% and the nationalization of major private
industries in the first half of the decade, contributed to a drastic reduction
in private industrial investment and a general disruption of the economy. The
worldwide recessions affected ?akistan's textile export industry, which in the
1970s accounted for more than 40% of PICIC's portfolio. Consequently, by
1980, PICIC was faced with serious portfolio and institutional problems,
shared also by IDBP. To address these issues several concrete measures were
taken. These included: (i) appointment of new senior management,
establishment of the GOP Committee for Sick Units, World Bank/ADB Collection
Review Meetings, and the passing of a Presidential Ordinance on Foreign
Exchange Risk. Subsequently the Bank Group and ADB worked closely with GOP
and PICIC to bring these measures to fruition. Since 1981, PICIC has been
able to reduce its arrears, substantially improve its liquidity position,
increase its business, and improve its financial condition.
6.21     PICIC has made considerable improvements in its operations since
1985. PICIC's loan approvals in 1987 amounted to Rs 2,175 million, up 70%
over 1986 and 122% over 1985. Disbursements amounted to Rs 781 million in
1987, up 8% over 1986 and 21% over 1985. PICIC has also been an active
participant under the First and Second IIC projects. In 1987, PICIC's net
profit amounted to Rs 104.6 million compared with Rs 90 million in 1986. In
1987, PICIC declared a dividend of 20% consisting of 10% cash dividend and 10%
stock dividend. In addition, PICIC announced a right issue of 25% with 100%
premium over par. The market has responded positively and its shares are
currently quoted around Rs 38 per share compared with Rs 10 in 1981.
6.22     PICIC is in compliance with the financial covenants under the Bank
loans regarding cash collections, debt equity and debt service coverage
ratios. PICIC's collection ratio of loans made after 1981 (loans covered
under the foreign exchange risk scheme) was about 80% in 1987. However, PICIC
continues to face the problem of high levels of arrears and low overall
collection ratios of 23 per cent as recoveries against cases under litigation
have been insignificant due to cumbersome and time consuming legal processes
in Pakistan. Based on the long form audited financial statements, as of
December 31, 1987, total portfolio affected by arrears (excluding overdues
below Rs 25,000) amounted to Rs 1.6 billion, or 27% of effective advances of
Rs 5.9 billion. The amount in arrears over two years were Rs 918 million.
Seventy two companies with total exposures of Rs 2.2 billion were operating at
a loss, or were experiencing technical or financial difficulties. Eleven
companies with total exposure of Rs 246 million were under liquidation. PICIC
has made substantial provisions against this non-performing assets. However,
there is a need to make a concerted effort to reduce the level of
non-performing assets to strengthen further PICIC's financial condition. In
this connection, PICIC will carry out a comprehensive review of its portfolio
and prepare a plan to address non-performing assets and will submit to the
Bank for review by negotiations. PICIC's plan was discussed and agreed upon
during negotiation.



- 30 -
6.23     In line with its policy of diversifying its operations PICIC has
prepared a time bound action program to implement its diversification plan
(Annex 12, attachment 3). New business areas include export-import finance,
leasing, underwriting, domestic resource mobilization (money markets) and more
active portfolio management (para. 6.24). The proposed implementation plan is
reasonable and, if implemented, it should make substantial contribution to
PICIC's profitability and long-term viability. For such a plan to work PICIC
would need to recruit additional staff and carry out extensive training of its
existing staff.
6.24     As mentioned earlier, PICIC reported an increase in profit in 1987.
The increase was due to a sharp rise in capital gains from equity investments
and trading activities. PICIC's initiative in diversifying its source of
income is commendable. Since the return from equity investment and stock
trading are by their nature volatile and involve certain risks, it is
recommended that PICIC's management develop explicit policies to guide these
operations. These policies would cover PICIC's overall exposure limit, target
return, security selection criteria, maximum exposure in a single security,
and the necessary internal control procedures. Such policies should be
approved by the Board of Directors who should be informed on the performance
on a quarterly basis. The logical extension of this activity would be for
PICIC to offer portfolio management services.
6.25     PICIC's projected financial results and conditions are given in
Attachment 2 of the Annex 12. Barring a major downturn in the economy and the
textile sector, PICIC is expected to be in compliance with the basic financial
covenants i.e. debt/equity ratio, collection ratios and DSCR.
6.26     Participation Conditions. The participation criteria for PICIC are as
follows: (i) Approval by PICIC's Board of Directors of the business
diversification plan and the implementation schedule; (ii) approval by PICIC's
Board of Directors of its equity investment management policy; (iii) approval
by PICIC's Board of Directors of a revised strategy statement; (iv) approval
of a staffing and training program to enable implementation of the business
plan by PICIC's management; and (v) preparation of an action plan to handle
problem projects.
6.27     Elgibility Criteria.  PICIC's access to Bank funds would be subject
to: (i) Implementation of the agreed business plan (Annex 12, attachment 3);
(ii) maintenance of Debt Service Coverage Ratio of 1.20; (iii) maintenance of
Long-Term Debt: Equity Ratio of 7:1; (iv) implementation of the plan for
handling problem projects; and (v) maintenance of the collection ratio of
post-1981-loans of at least 80% in 1988 and 1989.



- 31 -
VII. THE PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
A. Amount and Allocation of Funds
7.01     The Loan. The financial package for the proposed Project would
consist of a Bank loan of US$148 million and an IDA credit of US$2 million
equivalent for technical assistance. The loan will carry the Bank's standard
variable interest rates and will have a fixed amortization schedule of 20
years including a grace period of 5 years. The credit will be on standard IDA
terms of 35 years including a grace period of 10 years. GOP would on-lend the
funds to the PFIs, with subsidiary loan agreements with each institution. The
funds will be allocated on a first-come first-served basis. During
negotiations, it was agreed that signing of a subsidiary loan agreement,
satisfactory to t.ae Bank Group, between GOP and at least two PFIs (one DFI and
one NCB), which have met participation conditions, be a condition of
effectiveness.
7.02     Subloan Size, Free Limits and Review. Under the first IIC project, the
Bank Group agreed to an initial allocation of about 45% of the project funds
to the three DFIs. The balance of funds were placed in a pool of funds
availabie to all PFIs which subsequently met eligibility criteria. This
formula was used to encourage competition among PFIs; allow for the
strengthening of each PFI without adversely affecting the flow of investment
funds to the private sector; and safeguard the interest of the DFIs during
this transitional period. Under the second IIC project the Bank funds were
made available to the PFIs on a first-come first-served basis. This
arrangement has worked well and will be continued under the proposed Project.
Prior Bank review and approval would be required for all subloans above US$3
million from all the DFIs. In the case of the commercial banks, the free
limit for HBL and UBL will be US$3.0 million. The free limit for MCB will be
US$2.0 million. An appropriate free limit will be established for NBP after
the review of first three subprojects handled by NBP. The maximum and minimum
sub-loan sizes will be US$6.0 million and US$750,000 respectively. The
aggregate of free limit subloans would not exceed US$75 million of the total
Bank loan. At least about 50% by amount of all sub-projects would receive
prior Bank review and approval. All sub-project proposals above the free
limit would be required to include calculations of economic and financial
rates of return and domestic resource cost ratios. The cut-off for acceptance
would be at least 15%. The maximum debt/equity ratio of each sub-project will
be 60:40. Bridge loans will be considered as debt subordinated loan from the
director would be considered as equity. Each sub-project will be subject to a
minimum debt service coverage ratio of 2:0 at full capacity.
B. Financial Package
7.03     The proposed Bank loan of US$148 million would finance about 10% of a
total projected private industrial investment of US$1.4 billion over 1988-91
period. rhe balance will be financed by the sponsors and the PFTs. ADB has
financed the First and Second IIC project on a parallel basis and will be
doing so under the Third project (para 7.04). Any foreign exchange



- 32 -
requirement not covered by the Bank or ADB funds would be met from the foreign
exchange pool of the SBP under general open license, I/ or from resource
mobilization by the PFIs. The necessary local currency requirement will be
provided by the sponsors and the PFIs. In some cases IDBP and PICIC would
co-finance their sub-projects with the NCBs. Based on the past experience and
the maximum and minimum size limits (para. 7.02), it is estimated that about
50 projects would be financed under the proposed Project. The loan funds are
expected to be fully committed within two years of Board approval of the
Project (i.e. by December 31, 1991).
7.04    ADB Coordination and Parallel Financing.  ADB and the Bank have worked
closely in the past in ending through the financial intermediaries. ADB has
adopted an almost identical approach as that of the Bank by making an
open-ended credit line available to eligible PFIs. The PFIs under the ADB and
the Bank projects are identical, except for the Bankers Equity Ltd. ADB has
made three DFL loans totalling US$410 million. The latest loan of US$200
million was approved in December 1987, and was fully committed in September
1988. ADB is planning to make an industrial sector loan of about US$200
million in 1988. ADB is also planning to make a fourth DFL loan of about
US$200-300 million in 1989. The Bank and ADB have synchronized the
conditionality related to the PFIs. It was also agreed that the joint
ADB/BANK/GOP Collection Review Meetings 2/ for PICIC and IDBP be held on a
regular basis. Since these meetings are chaired by the Secretary of Finance,
they are very useful. The last meeting was held in July 1988. An agreement
has also been reached that the Bank and ADB would exchange information on the
Projects on a regular basis to ensure that eligibility criteria are
consistently applied.
7.05    On-lending Terms.  Project funds will be on-lent by PFIs at
competitive market rates with a minimum rate of 15% p.a. which, given
inflation of about 7% in FY87, is substantially positive in real terms. The
proposed on-lending rate is consistent with market lending rates of 15% and
would give PFIs more flexibility in pricing their loans. Inflation rates are
expected to remain below 8% over the commitment period of the loan as long as
the macroeconomic adjustment program as envisaged in the PFP is pursued.
However, to prevent the on-lending rate from becoming negative in the event of
accelerated inflation, agreement was reached during negotiations that
on-lending rates would be reviewed annually by GOP and that it would take
corrective measures to ensure that the rates remain positive in real terms.
The proposed Bank loan would be lent to GOP which would on-lend to the PFIs at
12% p.a. Under the proposed project, GOP would bear the foreign exchange and
For projects involving a total investment not exceeding RS 60 million
and needing foreign exchange less than RS 30 million, the investor can
raise foreign exchange directly from SBP under general license scheme.
Z/    The Collection Review Meetings were initiated in 1983 to address
portfolio problems of PICIC and IDBP. They are held during supervision
missions.



- 33 -
interest rate risks for a fee of about 4.4% (i2% - 7.6X). This policy
approach was adopted in 1980 when GOP decided to bear the exchange risk for
all foreign credit which it on-lends to intermediary financial institutions.
7.06    In 1986, GOP set up a committee I' to review its policy of providing
the fore4-gn exchange risk coverage to the intermediaries and private investors
at a flat fee of 32 p.a. regardless of the currency. The committee concluded
that the policy was not sound as it encouraged borrowing in strong currencies
with low nominal interest rate while the Government bore the risk of exchange
losses. For direct commercial borrowing, the committee recommended that the
level of foreign exchange coverage fee for each currency be linked to the
long-term lending rate for loans denominated in Rupee to avoid interest rate
arbitrage at the expense of the Government. The new policy implemented by the
Government mimics a market solution in the best possible way given the
controlled capital account. The foreign exchange cover is determined as
follows: the domestic rate for long-term lending minus the sum of the
prevailing international rate specified for each currency (e.g. Financial
Times International Report's 5-year deposit rate for US$) and a pre-specified
margin for intermediation cost (varies among currencies, but with a maximum of
1.5%)./
7.07    With regards to on-lending through financial intermediaries in
Pakistan, the committee recommended that the GOP continue to provide an
exchange cover for a minimum fee of 3% p.a.  The committee's rationale for
providing the cover at a lower fee was to permit a reasonable margin to cover
intermediation cost. The committee noted that the weighted nominal cost of
all GOP borrowings used to support local currency credit lines (multilateral
and bilateral sources) was about 3.9% while GOP's ovarall weighted on-lending
rate was about 12%, providing a spread of about 8% to cover foreign exchange
risk. The committee found that the spread had historically been adequate in
covering the risk for GOP.
7.08    The pooling of different multilateral and bilateral funds for
on-lending to private industry has several advantages: It has enabled the
Government to pool risks associated with the management of official foreign
exchange liabilities, in a manner that has been adequate to cover capital
losses associated with such external debt on average; it has therefore enabled
the Government to pass on the concessional element of international funds to
the private sector, as opposed to the public one, while simultaneously
l-'   The Committee was headed by the Chairman of NDFC, and included chief
executives of all financial institutions.
2/    As of June 7, 1988, the exchange cover fee for major currencies were as
follows: US$, 3% p.a.; DM, 6.63%; Sfr, 8.38%; Sterling, 3.0%; Yen,
7.0%.  These fees are adjusted frequently to reflect changes in
international interest rates.



- 34 -
minimizing market segmentation and creit rationing problems that would have
resulted if different loans had been passed on at differential interest
rates. As long as the private sector continues to be charged the interest
rate that is close to a possible market rate, the scheme generates no subsidy.
7.09    The concessional component of Pakistan's official external debt,
however, can be expected to decline over time. The concomitant opening of the
country's capital account, liberalization/modernization of its financial
markets, and the change in risk-preference of the private sector relative to
the Government, will in time change the role of the Government in managing the
foreign exchange risk as well. Therefore, the proposed FSAL (para. 4.02)
includes a study to prepare for the future, by estimating GOP's potential
liabilities and assessing alternative options (including private ones) for
providing foreign exchange cover. Meanwhile, the on-lending arrangement
proposed under the Third IIC project would raise the GOP's fee over 3%. Based
on the present Bank lending rate of 7.65%, the current fee is 4.35%, which
approximates differential rates of inflation expected between Pakistan - with
macro adjustment - and its major trading partners.
7.10    Beneficiaries.  The proposed IIC Project is aimed at financing viable
private sector projects in all sub-sectors. However, the mission is concerned
about the excessive financing of textile in spinning. The mission carried out
a review of the sector (Annex 1) which showed that the bulk of the investment
is still going in the area of spinning of lower count yarn i.e. up to 20
counts, which has a very low value added. There is a need to increase
investment in fully integrated mills and higher value added and product
diversification. Also, from exposure there is a need for the PFIs to carry
out a review of their lending to textile to establish a prudent exposure for
textile. The mission exchanged views on the subject with PFIs and there seems
to be a consensus on the need to diversify the portfolio. Priority would be
given to financing of: (i) balancing and modernization of existing profitable
spinning units which are planning to diversify their products; (ii) fully
integrating mills; and (iii) independent processing houses for finishing. The
strategy statement of each PFI would reflect their policy of limiting its
lending to the textile sector and incorporating appropriate exposure limits.
To promote the modernization and improved efficiency in the sector, foreign
investment through joint ventures should be allowed and encouraged.
7.11    Amortization Schedule. The proposed loan of US$148 million made to GOP
will be on standard Bank terms (20 years including a grace period of 5
years). The IDA credit of US$2.0 million equivalent will be on standard
terms.  GOP will on-lend the loan funds to the PFIs for a period of up to 15
years, including a grace period of three years. The PFIs would repay GOP on
the basis of a composite amortization schedule of subloans. The PFIs would
on-lend the funds to industrial projects based on their cash flow
requirements. However, the maximum maturity normally will be limited to ten
years including the grace period.



- 35 -
C. Administration
7.12    Procurement.  The procurement procedures of the PFIs are satisfactory
and consistent with the local commercial practice. As under the second IIC
project, Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures I/ would be required
for individual contracts for equipment and civil works above US$2 million.
Project sponsors would be required to seek bids from a list of potential
suppliers broad enough to assure competitive prices. The PFIs would be
required to confirm directly with the suppliers, the validity of the lowest
evaluated bid. For smaller contracts, PFIs would employ their existing
procurement procedures which generally conform to the Bank Group's standard
practices. In most cases, machinery and equipment would be procured by
obtaining at least three competitive quotations from established sources. The
PFIs would be expected to maintain records of the method of procurement and to
monitor utilization of subloans through regular supervision activities. For
technical assistance projects the PFIs would follow the Bank Group's
guidelines for the selection of consultants.
7.13    Disbursement Procedures.  The estimated disbursement period is five
years (Annex 13), which is about one year shorter than the disbursement
profile of IDF projects in Pakistan due to a large number of PFIs. That the
last date for submission of the subloan applications to the Bank will be
December 31, 1991. The closing date will be June 30, 1994. The proceeds of
the loan and credit would be disbursed at the rate of 100% of the foreign
exchange costs for machinery and equipment of eligible subloans and 60X of
local expenditures (corresponding to the estimated average foreign exchange
content of these items). As in prior Bank Group loans and credits to DFIs,
full documentation of expenditures would be submitted to the Bank Group.
However, it was agreed during negotiations that GOP will set up a special
account at the Habib Bank Ltd. to handle small transactions (below US$20,000)
under the loan. Under the credit, GOP has agreed to set up a special account
at Habib Bank to handle all technical assistance transactions.
7.14    Reporting, Accounts and Auditing.  PFIs would be required to submit
quarterly progress reports acceptable to the Bank Group covering their
operations under the Project. Financial statements, submitted annually by the
NCBs and the DFIs, would be required to conform with the Bank Group standard
reporting requirements, with submission of audited financial statements,
prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, within six months
after the end of each fiscal year. PICIC and IDBP will also be required to
submit progress report on their business diversification programs on a
quarterly basis. The Bank will have the right to withhold new commitments if
PICIC and IDBP fail to implement their respective agreed operational
diversification programs. This was confirmed during negotiations.
Section 3.2 of IBRD's "Guidelines for Procurement 'Under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits".



- 36 -
VIII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
8.01    Benefits.  The project would assist GOP in maintaining the growth of
private industrial investment, developing the stock market, and reorienting
development finance institutions from purely term lending activities to become
more dynamic financial intermediaries. If successful, the project would open
new avenues for financing industrial investment by the private sector and
release the pressure on the banking system. Based on past experience, it is
expected about 30,000 new direct jobs would be created a', an average
investment cost per job of about US$20,000. The minimum IERR and IFRR of each
sub-project to be financed under the Project will be 15%.   The proposed
Project would allow the Bank to continue its assistance to GOP in addressing
b-roader corporate finance issues such as bridge loans, and more market-
determined interest rates.
8.02    Risks.  A risk of the lending component of the proposed Project is
that an adequate number of eligible sub-projects might not materialize due to
political uncertainties and the absence of the continued improvements needed
to support a strong investment climate including a sound macroeconomic
framework. GOP has taken a number of steps to remove controls inhibiting
industrial development; more needs to be done. If progress in liberalizing
trade industrial policies is slow, efficient industrial investment will also
be constrained. Currently, however, projects on hand and in the pipelines of
the PFIs indicate credit demand substantially in excess of the amount proposed
for the Project and full commitment of the US$148 million sub-loan component
should be achieved within the two years provided under the Project.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01    During negotiations, agreements or understandings between the Bank
Group and GOP were reached on the following:
(a)     Policy measures needed to accelerate the development of the
equity market (paras. 5.04-5.05).
(b)     Contents of Statements of Strategy and Operating Policies for
PFIs (paras. 6.02, 6.08, 6.18, and 6.26);
(c)     Eligibility criteria for PFIs (paras. 6.03, 6.09, 6.19, aA.d
6.27);
(d)     A time bound action program for implementing business
diversification program of IDBP (para. 6.16).
(e)     A time bound action program for implementing business
diversification program of PICIC (para. 6.23).



- 37 -
(f)     The amount of equity contribution by GOP to NDFC to maintain
debt/equity ratio of 7:1 (para. 6.06).
(g)     On-lending terms, conditions and spread (paras. 7.05).
(h)     An annual review of the on-lending rate (para. 7.05).
(i)     Free limits and sub-project reviews (para. 7.02);
(j)     Procedures for procurement, disbursement reporting, accounting
and auditing (paras. 7.12-14).
9.02    During negotiations, agreement was reached that signing of a
subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank Group, between GOP and at
least two PFIs (one DFI and one NCB), which have met participation conditions,
be a condition of effectiveness (para. 7.01).
9 03    In case of PICIC and IDBP, it was agreed that the Bank would have the
unilateral right to withhold new commitment if the institutions fail to
implement the agreed business diversitication program (para. 7.14).
9.04    The proposed Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$148 million and
an IDA credit of SDR 1.5 million (US$2.0 million equivalent) to the Government
of Pakistan on terms and conditions outlined above.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page I of 10
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
TEXTILE SECTOR
Introduction
1.       The textile industry is the most important subsector of Pakistan's
industry. It is based on cotton, wbich is abundantly available. Although the
textile sector's relative importance has been reduced in recent years as a
result of industrial diversification, in FY88 it accounted for 26% of
Pakistan's industrial output and 16% of manufacturing value added, employed a
366,000 workforce, and contributed about 57% of manufactured exports. The
text-le industry comprises a large scale mill sector (LMS), and a highly
fragmented cottage/small-scale sector (SSS). LMS is predominantly a spinning
sector whereas the downstream industries viz, weaving, knitting. garmenting,
and made-ups, etc. are largely concentrated in the SSS. In FY88, there were
4.30 million spindles and 17,000 looms in the LMS, and about 133,000
power-driven looms in SSS.
2.       The industry grew rapidly until early 1970 when it suffered a major
set back due to the massive devaluation, loss of major markets in what is now
Bangladesh, fear of nationalization, and a major shift in labor policy.
Capacity utilization and production stagnated. Table 1 provides a summary of
the performance of the textile sector during the seventies. Because of the
shift in the labor and taxation policies and general bias against the mill
weaving sector, investment stagnated. This also encouraged a rapid growth of
SSE. In FY80, the share of the mill sector in production declined to only 10%
compared to 47% in FY72.
Table 1: Capacity and Production
Installed Capacity          Working Capacity         Mill Production
Spindles        Looms       Spindles       Looms      Yarn        Cloth
…      million ------       ------million------   (M.Kgs)    (M.Mtrs)
FY72           2.0            30           2.7         26,000       335         628
FY75           3.1            29           2.8         25,000       351         555
FY78           3.6            26           2.7         15,000       297         391
FY80           3.7            26           2.8         16,000       362         342
Source: APTMA Annual Report, 1986-87.
3.     Since the late 1970s, the government has taken several policy measures
to assist the sector. These included the introduction of a special textile
machinery import scheme for balancing, rehabilitating, and expanding the



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 10
capacities. As a result, investment in the textile sector exceeded the
planned target (Rs 12.8 billion). About 75 percent of which was utilized for
spinning. The spinning subsector became stronger and vibrant.
Recent Performance
4.     In FY88, the teAtile mill sector reached record capacity utilization
(86.8%) and production levels (Table 2). Aided by the boom in the
international market, FY88 exports increased nearly two-fold over FY83 (Rs 23
billion in FY88 from Rs 12.9 billion in FY80) (Attachment I). Encouraged by
the current textile boom, new spinning mills (totalling nearly 800,000
spindles) are being installed and nearly another 0.6 to 0.8 million spindles
are being planned. The subsector has reached a level of maturity, and there
has been a slow shift towards higher-value fine and blended yarn production.
Table 2: Performance Highlights (FY86-87)
FY86        FY87         FY88  a/
Capacity utilization (%)
Spinning                  71.4         81.5         86.8
Weaving                   52.6         52.9         56.2
Production
Yarn (M.Kgs)             482          586          685
Cloth (M.Mtrs)           253          238          280
Exports (M. Rs)
Yarn                   4,511        8,709        8,784
Cloth                  5,082        5,930        8,813
a/ Based on 10 month average.
Source: APTMA
5.     The spinning subsector, in its present state, can be broadly divided
into two groups. The first group consists of 52 new textile units, accounting
for nearly 15 percent of total spindles; and 86 partially or non-modernized
units accounting for about 45 percent of installed capacity. The second group
consist of 27 partially closed units accounting for nearly 16 percent of total
capacity, and 50 fully closed units accounting for over 20 percent of total
capacity. A review of the spinning subsector shows that, except for the newly
established units, and some rehabilitated units, most of the other units are
still old with about one million spindles lying idle (70 percent in fully
closed, and 30 percent in the partially closed units). The overall
productivity and capacity utilization levels are low which reflect the
presence of idle spindles, old spindles, and power shedding.



- 40 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 10
6.     The weaving subsector consists of 55 integrated textile mills in the
LMS, and about 25,000 power loom units under the SSS. At present the
installed looms in LMS are 17,000 (Attachment II), and there are about 130,000
looms in the SSS. Between the LMS and SSS in FY72, the share of LMS has
reduced from 50% of cloth production in FY82 to to 12 percent in FY87. In the
mill sector the capacity declined steadily from 30,000 to 17,000 (of which
only 9000 looms are presently in operation). The excise tax and the changes
in the labor policies appear to be the main reason for the decline.
Comparatively lower wage rates and consequently 1"wer manufacturing costs for
the SSS make weaving operations in the LMS generally uncompetitive in the
product ranges, which are dominated by the SSS. Due to these factors, the
investments in the weaving sections of the mill sector has been minimal. Only
integrated mills which modernized their weaving sections, and upgraded the
product-mix to high value fabrics, have done well.
7.     The 55 integrated textile mills also have some fabric finishing
facilities, although larger numbers of small-sized processing units (about 150
in number) are under SSS. The finishing subsector is, by and large based on
poor production technology. Many finishing plants have second-hand equipment
from Western European countries. As a result, the quality of finished fabrics
is generally low. Around 50 percent of mill-made cloth is sold as grey and
unprocessed (Attachment III). Poor weaving facilities, and outdated
processing capacities restrict the mill sector to low-value products thereby
-zom^..ng Aire^F ^m-4    with the nnwPr loom products. which are 25-30
percent cheaper.
8.     Competitiveness in export market.  Despite the strong export
orientation of the spinning subsector, the majority of partially modernized
and old mills is not cost efficient. While the newly set up spinning mills
are highly productive, quality efficient, and cost competitive in the yarn
export markets, the rest of the industry's export capabilities depends on the
availability of raw cotton at lower-than-the international prices. Table 3
compares overall manufacturing cost structure of Pakistan cotton yarn with
those of India and Korea.
Table 3: Manufacturing Cost Comparison of Cotton Yarn
(Index: Pakistan = 100)
Total
Auxiliary   Conversion
Cotton   Labor   Capital   Waste   Power    Material          Cost
Pakistana"      100       100      100       100      100       100          100
Indiak'         147       43       113        48     122         51          104
Koreak'         180        59      111        64      130        40           91
Source:  "APTMA, k'ITMF, Zurich



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 10
9.     The higher labor cost for Pakistan yarn (Table 3) is due mainly to
lower work assignments in old mills, and consequently, higher labor input
requirement. Because of the poor quality of yarn produced by the old mills,
the average export price of Pakistani yarn is somewhat lower. Likewise, as
may be expected, the cloth quality is poor, the export prices for the Pakistan
mill made cloth are considerably lower as compared to the other major exporting
countries such as Turkey and India.
10.    The Garment subsector has been a dynamic segment of the industry.
However, the subsector is almost entirely in the small-scale-sector, heavily
cotton based, and least mechanized. Sub-contracting with the housewives doing
the stitching is prevelant. Despite low capital intensity, low exposure to
garment designing and marketing, and low product quality of domestic faurics,
the subsector has shown remarkable export performance (from Rs. 887 million in
FY82 to Rs. 4,721 million in FY87), albeiL in the lower segments of the
market.
11.    The Ginning subsector is characterized by old equipment and
unsatisfactory operations. Poor quality of ginning leaves impurities in
cotton, which require intensive treatment during the spinning process. In the
old mills, the poor yarn quality is due to their inability to completely clean
the poorly ginned cotton. The raw cotton prices in the export market could
improve significantly with improved ginning operations. In view of the steady
increase in cotton production, and its export potentials, thle ginning subsector
needs to be expanded to cope with the increasing production.
12.    Man made fibers:  The annual consumption of man made fibers is around
60,000 tons, of which 30,000 tons is met through the domestic production, and
the rest is imported. The country having no production facilities for
viscose, nylon or acrylic fibers, and filaments, must import its entire
requirement. Taking advantage of continuing high duty structure (around 100
percent of import prices), a number of inefficient polyester fiber and yarn
manufacturing plants have been established. Heavy concentration on
pure-cotton spinning and consequently low consumption of the man made fibers
are the direct outcomes of high tariff on the imported fiber. Under the
present duty structure, there appears to be hardly any economic motivation for
the spinning mills for making blended (high-value) yarns.
13.    Textile machinery mantufacturing consists of a few firms making
first-generation (1950 technology) automatic looms. High protection until
recently, about 100 percent total duty on imported looms, had brought about a
sense of complacency in the domestic machine manufacturing activity and denied
the industry access to better weaving equipment. In the early 1980's, two
modern plants under the public sector, were established to manufacture ring
spinning, and cone winding machinery. Due to poor quality and ill-suited
machine designs, there are almost no takers. Both of these firms, after
prolonged closure, are operating at present, at extremely low capacity levels.



- 42 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 10
Problems and Prospects
14.    The fundamental problem of Pakistan's textile sector is its heavy
reliance on export of low-count yarn. In FY88, about 83% of the total yarn
manufactured was confined within a narrow count range of 103 to 343.
Further, almost the entire new capacity (nearly 800,000 spindles) under
installation and the project applications in the pipeline (another 600,000
spindles) are planned in a narrow count range. Although the suitability of
the domestic cotton is a major factor for the product concentration in the
narrow count range, for which currently there is a great demand in the export
market; the situation may change as Pakistan's exports of yarn have nearly
exhausted the EEC quota and saturated and Japanese and Korean markets.
Furthermore, the price advantage of Pakistan's yarn due to 20% price
differential of Pakistan's cotton vis-a-vis international price may be lost
when good crops return to other cotton-producing countries (e.g. the US).
There is a considerable risk in creating excess capacity chrough the
installation of additional capacity as proposed in DFI and commercial bank's
pipelines.
15.    Long-term strategy.  Spinning subsector development in Pakistan must be
based on diversification towards greater value-added items. GOP's new policy
to allow easy imports of high grade cotton should facilitate this strategy of
moving away from low-count yarn production. In the context of the proposed
IIC III, it is proposed that support ror green fieid spinning projects ill
coarse and medium-count range should be restrained, at least for the time
being. Similarly, support for the reopening efforts of the "sick" mills
should be considered only for BMR efforts. Since substantial increase in
exports is less likely due to already full quota utilization (Attachment IV),
diversification towards greater value added items viz. combed yarns, fine
count and blended yarns, sewing threads, specialised and fancy yarns,
industrial yarns etc. maybe the possible way to increase exports value. For
the weaving and finishing subsector, rehabilitation of these activities and
creation of additional capacities with modern equipment and processes will
help the mill sector, which now exports low-quality grey fabrics, to upgrade
their product mix and thereby avoid direct competition with the power loom
sector. BMR of the existing integrated mills and establishment of independent
modern weaving units would also automatically help upgrade the garment sector,
which has shown considerable potential in export development.
16.    A review of the textile sector carried out shows that a large number of
textile projects have been financed by IDA, under the Second IIC project, and
ADB loan. Presently, over 30 textile projects, at least 80 percent of which
are for spinning, are under various stages of implementation, and another 24
projects, again predominantly for spinning, are under active considerations of
the PFIS. Excessive financing of textile projects in spinning in Pakistan is
a matter of concern. The risk in creating an excess capacity in spinning is
considerable, more so because almost the entire fresh capacity is aimed at



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 10
producing low-value added coarse yarns of 20 counts. Although, lately, some
projects have been cleared by the PFIs for rehabilitation of weaving and
finishing segments but there is a continuing need to diversify portfolio to
increase investment in fully integrated mill of new weaving and finishing
mills.  Therefore, there is a nped for the PFIs to carry out a review of the
lending to establish a prudent exposure for textile. Under the Third IIC
project priorities will be given to financing of: (i) balancing and
modernization of the existing profitable spinning mills which are planning to
diversify their products; (ii) fully integrated textile mills; and (iii)
independent weaving, and processing houses for finishing. Strategy statement
of each PFI will reflect their policy for lending to textile sector and
ap?ropriate exposure limits. To promote the modernization and improved
efficiency in the sector, foreign investment through joint venture should be
allowed and encouraged.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 10
Attachment I
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
TEXTILE SECTOR
Export of Cotton Manufactures
(In Million RS.)
July-March
1983-84    1984-85    1985-86    1986-87         1987-88
Cotton yarn             2,931       3,974      4,511       8,709          6,5R8
Cotton thread             116          72          61          56            50
Cotton cloth           4,856       4,637       5,085        5,930         6,610
Cotton bags               209         180         153         139           158
Tent and canvas           833         753         500         399           408
Made - ups              1,656       1,991       3,225       4,227         4,231
Readymade garments    2,127         2,013       2,719       4,721         3,445
Hosiery                   204         256         262         296         1,/51
TOTAL:         12,932      13,876      16,516      24,477        23,241
Source: APTMA Annual Report, 1986-87, and mission data.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 10
Attachment 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
TEXTILE SECTOR
Growth of Textile Industry
Installed Capacity           Working Capacity       Yarn Prod.  Cotton
Spindles   Rotor   Looms   Spindles  Rotor  Looms   (Millions   Product
PERIOD   (,000)    (,000)  (,000)    (,OOO)  (,OO0)  (,OOO)    Kgs)           (Mill.Mts)
1971-72    2,848        -       30       2,650       -     26        335           628
1975-77    3,544        -       29       2,650       -     19        282           408
1980-81    3,983       19       25       3,175      16     13        374           307
1982-83    4,265       27       24       3,062      26     14        448           335
1983-84    4,224       29       24       3,020      25     12        431           296
1984-85    4,396       29       23       3,022      22     10        431           271
1985-86    4,422       37       19       3,159      25     10        482           253
1986-87    4,292       48       17       3,499      42      9        586           238
1987-88    4,330       55       17       3,757      49      9        514           210
(Jul-Mar)
Source: APTMA Annual Report, 1986-87, and mission data.



ANNEX I
- 46 -                                 Page 9 of 10
Attachment 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
TEXTILE SECTOR
Production Pattern of Cotton Yarn
(Quantity in Million Kgs)
1981-82        1983-84         1984-85           1985-86        1986-87
CATEGORY    COUNT/  Qty        X      Qty      %      Qty      %       Qty       %    Qty       %
RANGE
Course        1-20   185.6  43.2   163.3   37.8   166.5  38.1   146.8   30.5   224.5  38.3
Medium       21-34   165.8  38.6   179.5   41.6   191.6  44.4   238.1   49.4   262.2  44.7
Fine         35-47    18.1   4.2    19.8    4.6    21.4   5.0    28.5    5.9    29.2   5.0
Superfine   48-80       8.3   1.9    15.5    3.6    12.7   3.0    15.5    3.2    13.6   2.4
Hard Waste    -        19.3   4.5       9.3    2.2       8.3   1.9      7.9    1.6       9.6   1.6
Man-Made       -       32.7   7.6    44.0   10.2    32.9   7.6    45.2    9.4    47.1   8.0
Production Pattern of Mill-Made Cloth
(Qudntity in Million Meters)
1981-82          1983-84       1984-85          1985-86         1986-87
Qty     %      Oty      %      Qty       %      Qty       %     Qty       %
Greycloth          196.5  60.4   152.5  51.4   148.6   54.7   142.8   56.4   115.9   48.7
Bleached            43.5  10.6    47.7  16.1    39.4   14.5    29.5   11.6    23.3    9.8
Dyed and Printed  53.1  16.4    59.7  20.1    54.8   20.2    49.1   19.4    47.8   18.8
Blended             40.9  12.6    36.6  12.4    28.8   10.6    31.8   12.6    54.0   22.7
SourCe: APTMA Annual Report, 1986-87.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 10
Attachment 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
TEXTILE SECTOR
Utilization of Export Quotas - 1986
(ECM in ,000 kgs; USA in ,000 sq. yds.)
CLOTH                                       YARN
X of                                    % of
ceiling  APTMA  Exporters  Total    Ceiling  APTMA  Exporters   Total
ECM                                        Ceilin8g            a7-       R-      Ceiling
U.K.           10,583   4529    5291           92        678       374      135          75
F.R. Germany   2,875   1386    1438            98       1526      1321      205         100
France          1,725    355       860         70       1254      1113      141         100
Italy           2,636    379    1310           88       1993      1798      195        100
Benelux         1,580    696       790         88       1219      1103      116         100
Denmark           516    342       320        100        228       172       56         150
Ireland           781    226       370         76        402       319       80       99.8
Greece              41     13       20         80         59        43       12       97.0
USA
CATEGORY
313            94,267    5,999         6.36
315            55,057    4,098          7.44
320             8,000       291        3.63
Source: APTMA Annual Report, 1986-87.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 9
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (lIC III) PROJECT
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING SYSTEM
Background
1.     Overview.  The financial system in Pakistan consists of:  (i) five
nationalized commercial banks (NCBs); (ii) seventeen foreign commercial banks
(FCBs); (iii) four specialized commercial banks; (iv) nine development finance
institutions (DFIs); (v) several insurance and leasing companies; (vii) two
stock exchanges; aud (viii) a housing finance corporation. The State Bank of
Pakistan (SBP), the central bank, directs and regulates the financial system
within overall policies set by GOP. The Pakistan Banking Council (PBC)
oversees and coordinates the activities of NCBs. The Ministry of Finance
monitors the operations of the other financial institutions. I/
2.     The commercial banking system in Pakistan predates the country
independence. The oldest Pakistan bank was set up in 1942 by the Habib group
of entrepreneurs. The Australasia Bank (now forming the Allied Bank) was
established in Lahore early in 1947. Most banking functions before the
independence, however, were carried out by numerous branches of foreign and
Indian banks having their main offices in Bombay, Calcutta, and Delhi. Most
of them closed their offices upon partition, so that Pakistan had to rebuild
its banking system. In July 1948, SBP was established as the central bank of
the country. One of its first functions was the issuance of currency to
replace Indian currency notes in circulation as a transition measure. The
second important function was the promotion of banking companies. A Banking
Companies Act was passed in 1948, and the first new bank to be established,
with government participation, was the National Bank of Pakistan (NBP) in
November 1949. The existing Pakistani banks also were encouraged to expand
and the branches of foreign banks allowed to continue their activities
undisturbed. In the 1950s, commercial banking expanded rapidly and important
new private banking institutions, such as the National Commercial Bank in 1957
and the United Bank Ltd. (UBL) in 1959, were created. In the 1960s, two other
important banks were established--Commerce Bank and Standard Bank. During
this time SBP carried out its traditional central banking functions by
inspecting banking institutions. It also contributed to the formation of
professional bankers through a centralized training scheme.
Under the proposed FSAL, a subsidiary of SBP will be set up to monitor
non-bank financial institutions. Initially, the subsidiary will
regulate only leasing companies and private investment companies, which
are expected to be licensed in late 1988.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 9
3.     As banking grew, GOP felt the need to review the effectiveness of banks
in promoting economic development. During the sixties, GOP sought to channel
credit to targeted sectors mainly through specialized institutions and other
schemes financed by SBP. However, within the commercial banking system little
was changed; in 1972 GOP saw the need to enact a Banking Reforms Act which
expanded significantly SBP's control authority over the banks, to the extent
of removing directors and management if necessary. Capital and reserve
requirements were raised and reinvestment of a percentage of profits made
compulsory. GOP felt that the banks were failing to play a developmental
role. Together with banking reforms, SBP introduced more specialized credit
schemes for small producers in agriculture and industry, this time enjoining
greater commercial bank participation. These measures proved to be a prelude
to the Nationalization of Banks Act of 1974, whereby the SBP and all the
commercial banks incorporated in Pakistan were brought under direct government
ownership. The directors and management of the banks were removed and
replaced by government appointees. PBC was established to coordinate the
activities of the nationalized banks, which were merged to form five banks.
Since nationalization, the banking system has continued to expand its
operations and geographical presence, under more direct government control.
Since then, GOP has -ontinued to permit the establishment of foreign banks.
As recently as in 1982, three additional foreign banks entered tbh Pakistani
banking industry.
PrpRpnt Structure
4.     Commercial Bankina System.  With total assets of Rs 425 billion, or
about 80% of the assets of the financial system as of December 31, 1987 and a
network of 7,000 branches, the commercial banking system plays a dominant role
in Pakistan's financial system. The five NCBs accounted for about 91.2% of
deposits, 86.7% of advances and 75% of commercial banks' net profits.
Table 1: The Conmmercial Banking System
Key Indicators, 1982-1987 /a
NCBs                      FCBs
1982    1     _987    j192    j986        1987
Deposits (Rs billion)          117.1    218.0    240.7    9.1      19.8    23.4
Advances (Rs billion)          72.4    133.7    130.7      9.1     16.7    20.1
Total Assets (Rs billion)/b   171.6    321.8    371.8    23.0      44.5     53.2
Advance/Deposits (%)           61.8    61.3    54.3    100.0       84.3     85.9
Capital and Reserves (Rs billion)   3.1  6.5      6.3      0.6      1.5     1.7
Capital/Deposits (%)            2.6      3.0      2.6      6.6     7.6      7.3
Net Income (Rs million)        450.0    906.0    911.0    97.0    192.0    302.0
Return on Total Assets (%)    0.6-0.43 0.07-0.33 0.05-0.27 0.0-1.25 0.0-0.21  0-1.85
Operating Costs as % of Average
Total Assets (%)              2.1     2.0      2.1      1.9      2.1      2.1
Number of Branches /c                             7,'00                      63
/a As of December 31
Lb Including contra items
Lc As of June 30
Source: Grindlays Bank, May, 1988 and staff estimates.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 9
5.     Traditionally, Pakistani banks also have had a branch system abroad.
Branches were first established in the Jnited Kingdom. The branch system
abroad expanded during late 1970s and early 1980s as Pakistan's foreign trade
diversified and as increasing numbers of Pakistani laborers migrated to
Europe, the Middle East, Europe and Africa. By 1983, NCBs had 200 branches
abroad which contribute significantly to deposits via workers' remittances and
to profits through foreign exchange and trade operations. However, the growth
in the international bank-ng has slowed down due to the decline in oil prices
and increasing difficulties in operating in the Middle Eastern countries.
Since 1985 NCBs under the instruction of PBC have been consolidating their
overseas operations. In the past, profits from international operations were
used to cross subsidize local operations. However, this is no longer a
feasible option and, therefore, there is a clear need for the NCBs to increase
domestic profitability.
6.     The NCB's board members and chief executives are nominated by GOP.'/
In recent years, care has been taken to maintain continuity of direction where
possible and justified. Overall, the banks are reasonably well managed.
Internally, banks have adopted different administrative structures. Some are
quite centrally managed while others are significantly decentralized. Some
emphasize foreign trade activities, others domestic operations. These
different management styles, freedom of operation, and traditional different
clientele have made for diversity and healthy competition within the system.
Three of the five banks--Habib. National. and United--are mtuch mora imnnrtant
in terms of the volume of their operations and their impact on the economy.
Of the remaining two-Allied and Muslim--the latter is more aggressive and
efficient. Allied is the smallest accounting for about 5% of the operations
of the NCBs. Table 2 presents the situation in 1982 and 1987.
Table 2: Comparative Position of the NCBs (1982-1987)
Capital                                         Net
and Reserves    Deposits       Advances            Income
--------------(Rs billion)-------------        (Rs million)
1982   1987   1982   1987   1982   1987        1982   1987
Habib Bank            1.0    2.5   40.8   86.1   25.1   47.7         273    402
United Bank           0.8    1.5   27.1   56.5   18.5   31.3          29    186
National Bank         0.8    1.5   30.8   63.2   14.9   32.7          99    214
Muslim Bank           0.4    0.6   12.7   22.6    9.3   13.1          44    100
Allied Bank           0.2    0.3    5.6   12.3    4.6    6.0           5       9
Total                 3_      i.   117.0L_    240.7   72.4   130.8   45O    211
Source:  Grindlays Bank, May, 1988.
In July 1988, GOP in its budget speech announced its intention to
restructure the composition of the board of directors of each NCB. The
new Board will include two representatives from the private sector, one
from DFI, two from the management of the bank, one from PBC, and one
from GOP.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 9
7.     The PBC l/ plays an important coordinating role in the NCB system.
It is also the communications link with the Government, enabling the banks to
put before the Government proposals on banking legislations and regulations.
Additionally, the PBC formulates policy guidelines for the banks, reviews
their performance and determines areas where corrections or greater
coordination is needed. The PBC, however, has no legislative or regulatory
functions. The first remain with GOP authorities and are essentially
contained in the Banking Companies Ordinance of 1962. The latter is the
jurisdiction of the SBP which establishes reserve requirements, credit
controls and allocations, interest rate levels and structure, and commission
charge guidelines.
Recent Performance
8.     Deposits.  The comparative deposit figures for the commercial banking
system for the years 1979-1984 are shown in Table 3.
Table 3: Deposit Structure
(amount in Rs billion)
Year ended Dec 31         1983     %       1984    1985    1986    1987        2
(June)
Demand deposits           32.2    26.3    34.5    35.0    42.4    48.9    25.1
Savings deposits         52.6    43.0    57.3    64.2    77.7    81.3    41.6
Total fixed deposits    37.5    30.7    37.8    52.0    5I.8    b5.0    33.3
Fixed under one year  (16.3)  (13.3)  (14.1)  (21.0)  (20.0)  (24.8)  (12.7)
Fixed over one year   (11.5)  ( 9.4)  (13.5)  (19.0)  (23.6)  (24.9)  (12.8)
Fixed over five years  (9.7)   (7.9)  (10.2)  (12.0)  (14.0   (15.3)   (7.8)
Total Deposits        iZZ.    1Q00.0   129.6        151.2   ill.R   195.2   1Q0.0
Source:  SBP 1986/1987 Annual Report.
Total bank deposits increased from Rs 122.3 billion in 1983 to Rs 195.2
billion in 1987 or an annual compounded growth rate of 12.4% in nominal
terms. The share of demand deposits has remained constant around 252 of total
deposits. Traditionally the banks have tapped personal savings, and have
expanded the base of personal deposits from 362 of the total in 1983 to 472 in
1987. The importance of government deposits has been reduced for about 22 in
1987. Corporate deposits have remained relatively constant at about 282.
Other deposits from foreign and domestic constitutents have increased sharply
from 4% in 1983 to 142 in 1987. .
9.     The second important development is the savings promotion effort of the
commercial banks in recent years to reach larger numbers of depositors, even
The role of PBC is being redefined by GOP and it is likely to play the
role of a coordinating agency.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 9
in the most remote areas of the country. Between 1983 and 1987 the number of
depositors increased from 19.6 million to 22.3 million while the average size
of account rose from Rs 6,255 to Os 8,800. The growth in deposit was achieved
without any significant increases in average interest rate. With Islamization
of the financial system weighted cost of funds for the banking system
increased from 6.5% in 1983 to 9.2% in 1985 then declined to 7.95% in 1987.
The banks have been reducing deposit rates since 1985 because of the lower
profitability caused by the higher provisions for losses. The banks have also
been restricted in their lending by the credit ceiling (para. 13).
10.    With respect to other resources, the noticeable variations are in
increased borrowings from the SBP representing greater use of specialized
credit lines, particularly for export financing. The other important change
in the resource base of the commercial banking system is the continuous growth
of the capital and reserve accounts, and the important equity contribution to
the NCBs by GOP during 1981-1986. The NCBs have also been allowed to
strengthen their capital by retaining net profit after tax; in the past they
were required to remit all profit to the Government. The reported combined
net income of five NCPs increased from Rs 450 million in 1982 to Rs 911
million in 1987 (Table 2).
11.    Advances.  During the FY83-87 period, bank credit grew at an even
faster rate (18.3% p.a.) than deposits, reflecting greater use of SBP's
refinance credit lines. Under the credit allocation guidelines issued by the
SBP, the expansion of credit was directed to different sectors of the economy
in about the same proportion as in previous years. Table 4 compares the
commercial banks' portfolio by sector between 1983 and 1987.
Table 4: Commercial Banks Advances to Private Sector by Economic Sector
(Rs billion)
Year ended Dec 31                      1983    1984    1985    1986    1987        %
June
Agriculture                             8.0    11.6    18.1    25.0    27.9   25.3
Mining                                  0.4     1.1      0.6     0.7      0.5    0.5
Manufacturing                          26.2    30.1    38.4    42.4    42.8   38.8
Construction                            0.9     1.4      2.4      2.7     2.4    2.2
Electricity                             0.1     0.1      0.2     0.2      0.2    0.2
Commerce                               11.9    12.7    18.5    23.2    24.4   22.1
Transport                               0.4     0.9      0.8     0.8      1.4    1.3
Services                                0.6     0.8      1.2      1.4     1.7    1.6
Others                                  3.1     3.7      7.7     8.3      9.0    8.2
Total advances to private         51.6    62.4    88.0   104.8   110.4  100.0
Total advances                         91.5   102.5   124.0   147.5   149.2
Private as % of total                  56.4    60.9    71.0    71.0    74.0
Source:  SBP 1986/1987 Annual Report.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 9
12.    These figures show the continued predominance of the manufacturing
sector with 38.8% of private bank credit. The second most important sector is
commerce, absorbing 22.1% of bank advances. Because of the textile boom and
the marked improvement in industrial investment since 1985, the proportion of
credit of the manufacturing sector is estimated to have increased to around
44%. The figures show some uneven treatment of the manufacturing sector and
an expansion rate slightly below the overall expansion of credit. This is
explained by the reduction of government investment in manufacturing in the
past three years because of its policy of limiting public sector investment to
BMR projects and promoting private investment in the sector. The slack was
not fully picked up by the private sector until 1986. In 1987, the weighted
average rate of return on the advances of the scheduled banks was 12.0%
compared with 12.7% in 1986. Given the weighted cost of funds of about 8%
(para. 9), the effective spread of the banks was 4%.
Profitability
13.    With the measures taken by GOP and PBC since 1979, the overall
performance and profitability of NCBs improved considerably until 1985. The
combined reported net income of the NCBs increased from Rs 450 million in 1982
to Rs 1.2 billion in 1985. Since 1986, the profitability of NCBs has come
under pressure with the introduction of more stringent internal rules for
provisioninig. As a result, the net income of the NCBs declined to Rs 911
million in 1987 from Rs 1.2 billion in 1985 (Table 5). Profitability and the
performance among NCBs remains mixed. In 1987, Habib Bank's net income were
Rs 402 million, or 44% of the combined profits of the NCBs although its total
advances were 36% of the NCBs. In 1987, return on total assets ranged from
0.27% for HBL to 0.05% for Allied Bank, the smallest NCB. All NCBs to a
certain extent, continue tu suffer from the problem of overstaffing due to
strong labor unions. In 1987, personnel cost as a percentage of deposits of
NCBs averaged 2.2% ranging from a low of 1.87% for HBL to 2.81% for Allied
Bank. The relatively low profitability of NCBs is caused mainly by: GOP's
monetary policy of maintaining very high reserve requirements (35% of
deposits) and restrictive credit ceiling; I' the credit allocation policy,
which directs NCBs to finance priority sectors at low interest rates; a large
network of low profit branches in rural areas; non-payment of interest on
loans to the public sector; and general overstaffing. FCBs, however are able
to increase profitability by catering to selected corporate clients and
carrying out a larger proportion of fee-based business for which profit
margins are greater. Some of these problems would be addressed under the
proposed FSAL.
As of December 31, 1987, the loan/deposit ratio of the five NCBs was
54.3% compared with 85.9% for foreign commercial banks. Because of the
overall credit ceiling, the NCBs are unable to lend and de facto forced
to buy the treasury bills which yield 6% p.a.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 9
Table 5: Net Income of NCBs
(Rs million)
1987
Share %
1982     1985      1986     1987        All
NBP                  99       232      232       214         23.5
HBL                 273       640      393       402         44.1
UBL                  29       206      189       186         20.4
MCB                  44        98       82       100         11.0
ABL                   5         6        10        9          1.0
Total               45Q    1,182       22        911        100.0
Source:  Grindlays Bank, May, 1988
Role in Industrial Financing
14.    Since early 1980 the SBP has assigned a term industrial financing role
to the NCBs through specific credit allocations. These allocations, if not
utilized, cannot be channeled to other credit purposes by the banks.
Initially there was some reluctance by the banks to participate in the
scheme. This reluctance was based on the low interest spread obtained. By
regulation these loans could only earn 11% p.a. while working capital loans
normally earn 14%. However, the disincentive was removed with the
Islamization of the financial system (see Annex 3). With Islamization of the
banking system and the use of Term Finance Certificates, the banks do not have
the problem of cross rates and term lending has become more attractive. Also,
the more efficient banks found ways to make these operations more profitable
by insisting on other banking business such as letters of credit, working
capital, collections and foreign exchange. As a result, term lending by NCBs
has increased sharply since FY83 (Table 6). In 1987, gross disbursements of
term loans to industry amounted to Rs 4.0 billion or about 4.3% of total gross
fixed investment. The rapid growth of the term lending portfolio also was
aided by the general buoyancy in private industrial investment especially
textile.
Table 6: Financing of fixed industrial investment by NCBs (FY83-87)
(Rs million)
Gross           Net      Total Gross           Gross Disbursement
Disbursements    Increase   Fixed ''                 % of total
Investments         Gross fixed invest.
FY83             2,611           1,356          56,742                    4.6
FY84             2,896           1,692          63,439                    4.5
FY85             3,703           2,033          71,787                    5.2
FY86             3,418           1,484          81,319                    4.2
FY87             4,024           1,846          94,355                    4.3
LX  At current market prices.
Source: SBP 1986/87 Annual Report



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 9
Prospects
15.    Prospects for the development of the commercial banking sector in
Pakistan will depend on at least four major factors. The first will be the
overall performance of the Pakistan economy especially fiscal and monetary
policies, and the demands that the different sectors will make on the banks
for funds and services. At present, the prospects are for continued growth
and a widening of services demanded. The second factor has to do with the
future savings rate; Pakistan presently has a relatively low rate of domestic
savings. There is scope for increased savings particularly as income
increases, becomes more widely distributed and inflation is checked. The
third factor is the introduction of Islamic concepts into the economy,
particularly in the financial sector, and the related issue of freeing
interest rates as a result of participation schemes. The experience to date
shows that Islamization has resulted in gradual deregulation of the financial
system. Under the Islamic banking system, scope exists for increased bank
deposits attracted by higher yields and there is the possibility for the banks
to match these resources with credit demands maintaining adequate spreads
(Annex 2). The fourth factor which will influence the development of the
commercial banks is constituted by the policies that the SBP will pursue,
particularly with respect to reserve requirements, credit ceilings, credit
allocation, and other regulatory functions. This in turn will be influenced
to a large extent by the borrowing requirements of GOP.
16.    Recent experience and statements point to the likelihood of relatively
flexible and judicious management of the system with a tendency to free up
regulations as needed. An example is the recent freeing up of service
charges, on which banks can now compete freely. The interest rate ceiling on
term loans has been removed while the rate ceiling on sh-.)rt term working
capital loan has been increased from 15% to 20%. These actions will allow the
system to develop in accordance with the needs of the economy and permit it
greater internal efficiency. The last factor is the continuing role of the
PBC in coordinating the NCBs' activities. However, the banks' improving
performance would justify a greater degree of independence and competition.
In July 1988, GOP took several concrete measures to improve the efficiency of
the NCBs. These measures included: (i) limiting the role of PBC to a
coordinating organization and delegating more power to the newly constituted
board of directors of NCBs; and (ii) declaring its intention to disinvest up
to 20% of the shares of NCBs to public. These measures, if carefully
implemented, should have a very positive impact on the performance of NCBs and
the quality of banking services.
17.    The two important policy issues relevant to the commercial banking
system are: the levels and structure of interest rates, and the credit
allocation system. SBP is charged with regulating both. In the past, the
levels and structure of the interest rate have been utilized by SBP to pursue
two contradictory objectives: increase the rate of savings through attractive



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 9
deposit interest rates and promote investment in certain sectors and
activities by offering low cost financing for them through the commercial
banks. The result has been a crossed interest rate structure which had to be
subsidized either by GOP, the non-preferred sectors, or the banks. The
financial authorities had recognized the problem but were nevertheless
reluctant to address this issue directly and publicly in view of GOP's
commitment to Islamization of the economy. With the adoption of Islamic
instruments both for deposits and loans, the lid has been taken off interest
rate levels and the crossing effect eliminated. As long as the result is that
of rationalizing interest rates to reflect current price movements and market
interplay between savers and users, GOP's approach can be considered
adequate. This, however, is an aspect to be monitored carefully in the future.
18.    The banking system in Pakistan has traditionally been subject to
quantitative credit controls. These have taken the form of credit ceilings
and credit allocation measures. GOP has maintained these controls because of
the interest rate distortions of the recent past and the policy of moving away
from interest rates, it has no alternatlve but to manage credit on the basis
of quantitative assignments. GOP argues that this policy is in keeping with
the needs of a developing economy with limited resources and the need of
maintaining fiscal stability. SBP monitors credit limits and allocations
closely and re-adjusts amounts assigned periodically as needed.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 7
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
ISLAMIZATION OF PAKISTAN'S FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Intr_,duction
1.     Under Islam, it is considered an injustice if the party providing
financial capital is guaranteed a fixed and pre-determined interest rate while
the party providing enterprise alone is made to bear the investment risk. A
fixed interest also is considered unjust to the lender if the borrower earns a
profit quite out of proportion to what he pays in interest. Capital is not
considered a separate factor of production but should be inextricably linked
with enterprise in a profit and loss sharing arrangement. Since interest
rates are considered a major source of injustice and contrary to Islam's
objective of social equity, their abolition becomes the driving force of the
financial Islamization process. Although there is some disagreement among
Islamic scholars, GOP has adopted the view that interest, defined as a
predetermined fixed return for the use of money, is inconsistent with an
Islamic system. The focus of reforms is to replace interest rates with
financial mechanisms acceptable to Islam in the short run, and by a more
fundamental readjustment of all basic social and economic relations in the
long run.
2.     Pakistan's 1973 constitution required that all existing laws conform
with the injunctions of Islam but only after 1977, when the present Government
took office, has the creation of an Islamic economic system become a major
government objective. Since 1979/80 the Government began implementing a
gradual and cautious program of financial Islamization. Beginning July 1,
1979, the House Building Finance Corporation (HBFC), the Investment
Corporation of Pakistan (ICP), and the National Investment Trust (NIT) began
to reorient their financial activities toward non-interest bearing
operations. NCBs and cooperative credit societies were required to provide
interest-free loans in kind up to RS 5,000 to farmers cultivating subsistence
holdings. Bankers Equity Limited (BEL) was established to finance private
industrial investment through the provision of new financing modes. On June
26, 1980, legal changes were introduced to permit the issue of Participation
Term Certificates (PTCs) to replace debentures and the establishment and issue
of Modaraba companies and certificates. BEL was registered as the first
Modaraba company in Pakistan. On July 1, 1980, the Small Business Finance
Corporation (SBFC) was converted to non-interest operations. On January 1,
1981, commercial banks were directed to begin accepting profit and loss
sharing (PLS) savings and terms deposit accounts. To facilitate the operation
of these accounts, SBP converted a number of transactions previously conducted
on a non-interest basis. On July 1, 1982, musharikas were introduced to



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 7
provide working capital financing on a PLS basis, together with hire-purchase
and leasing for fixed investment.
3.     The Government has used the transition period during which conventional
financing modes and new Islamic instruments functioned in parallel to test the
new financing arrangements and their effects on intermediaries and investors.
GOP has approached this process pragmatically and has made a number of
adjustments to prevent major disruptions to the system. Six years after the
first measures were adopted, the FY85 Budget announced that the financial
system would be fully converted by July 1985, with the following timetable:l'
(a)   From January 1, 1985, all transactions of banks with the Federal
and Provincial Governments, public sector corporations, private and
joint stock companies will be based on Islamic (non-interest)
financing;
(b)   Effective April 1, 1985, all new financing by financial
institutions to all entities including individuals shall be on the
basis of (a);
(c)   From July 1, 1985, banks will not accept interest-bearing
deposits. All savings and term deposits will be on a PLS basis;
(d)   Islamic financing modes will be extended to the agricultural sector.
4.     With this program, the only transaction that would not be conducted on
an Islamic basis on foreign borrowings would be the on-lending of the proceeds
of foreign borrowing by the Government and non-government entities, when the
terms are stipulated in the loan agreement, and the foreign currency deposits
accounts of commercial banks.
Islamization of the Financial System
5.     PLS Deposits.  Commercial banks have operated voluntary PLS accounts
since 1981 but with full Islamization, time and savings deposits in all
financial institutions will be on a PLS basis. Under the PLS system,
financial institutions declare a return on deposits every six months based on
profits earned with PLS funds. A reserve fund will be set up with 5X-10% of
profits to offset future losses and equalize rates of return over time. Since
the banks' more profitable operations were earmarked for PLS funds, returns
have been consistently higher than for comparable fixed interest deposits,
although there has been considerable variation among banks. As of June 30,
1987 PLS deposits accounted for about 67% of total deposits.
All existing interest-based obligations will be honored until
discharged.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 7
6.     Government Finance.  Government savings schemes, which together with
prize bonds finance a large proportion of public development expenditures,
have been operated on the basis of fixed interest. Prize bonds which do not
pay interest but distribute prizes at random, will remain unchanged.
Government borrowing through treasury bills and bonds will also continue on an
interest basis. Financial arrangements between the Federal Government,
provincial governments and government corporations will remain unchanged since
the Government considers these as merely accounting adjustments which do not
give rise to injustice.
7.     Mark-Ups.  Among trade financing modes, the most commonly used is the
mark-up, which is applied to the financing of inputs for agriculture and
industry as well as for domestic and international trade. Instead of lending,
the financial institution makes a fictitious purchase of a portion of the
company's assets or inputs which is sold back to the company when the loan
falls due at a price including mark-up. Instead of a penalty for late
payments, timely repayments of the loan command rebates in the agreed mark-up
which includes some provision for penalty. A mark-down is also possible by
which assets are sold and re-bought by the borrower at a lower-price.
Mark-downs also can be used as discount rates for the purchase of trade bills
and notes of credit. The mark-up or mark-down is negotiated freely between
the parties but SBP has set minimum and maximum rates of 10% and 20%.
Although mark-ups were introduced to provide short-term financing, in 1985 SBP
extended the concept to term financing. In this case, Sbw oniy specified a
10% minimum but no maximum rate. Mark-ups entail a predetermined fixed rate
of return, security of principal and are not governed by the principles of
profit and loss sharing, they are a less preferred, but nonetheless the
acceptable financing mode under Islam. Mark-up financing is currently the
main instrument used by the banking system for working capital finance.
8.     Participation Term Certificates (PTCs).  Similar to redeemable equity,
PTCs are transferable instruments based on the PLS principle and were intended
to replace bonds and debentures for medium and long term local financing.
PTCs are a form of redeemable equity whereby instead of receiving interest,
PTC holders share in the profits and losses of the issuing company. PTCs can
be issued for up to ten years, are secured by a fixed mortgage on company
assets, and the claim on company profits is based on pretax profits and is a
tax deductible expense. klthough technically the PTC share of profits should
be based on the ratio of PTCs to the company's paid-up capital plus reserves,
PTC agreements have specified an expected rate of return of 15%. Most PTCs
are being issued at 17% with a 2% rebate if the company makes payments within
30 days of closing its annual accounts. Specific agreements may provide that
in the event of losses a portion of PTCs can be turned into convertible
shares, similar to preference shares in terms of rights and privileges. If
the company returns to profitability these shares can be reconverted into
PTCs. During the initial stages of Islamization, the Government expected PTCs
to become the main term lending instrument for both development finance



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 7
institutions and commercial banks. However, because of its PLS features, PTCs
met with considerable resistance from the private sector and the commercial
banks. The private sector voiced strong reservations about the potential
involvement of financial institutions in the management of companies and the
possible dilution of ownership in the event of losses. More importantly,
because of their deposit base the commercial banks were concerned with the
excessive transformation of short-term demand liabilities into venture
capital-type investment. The commercial banks were concerned that given their
already high involvement in term financing, a complete switch to PLS-based
instruments would have an adverse effect on their international credit
rating. As a result, the Government introduced a new term financing mode
based on mark-ups.
9.     Term Finance Certificates (TFCs).  The TFCs are currently the major
financing instrument for fixed investment and have replaced PTCs. However,
commercial banks still have the option of using PTCs on a selective basis.
The TFC involves application of the mark-up principle, initially designed as a
short-term financing instrument to long-term investment financing. The
provider of funds (TFC holder) acquires assets from the investor which are
sold back at a predetermined mark-up. The purchase price plus the mark-up is
paid back in annual or semi-annual installments over an agreed period of
time. Installmcnts are covered by TFCs which are equivalent to promisory
notes issued by the borrower in respect of equivalent installments of
principal and interest. Most of bridge finance have been provided on the same
basis, to be retired out of public floatation of shares, cash flows or new
funds injected by owners from their own resources. SBP has determined that
the actual mark-up or rate of profit will be freely negotiated between the
parties but has set a minimum of 10% p.a.
10.    Hire Purchase.  To finance acquisition of machinery and equipment, as
well as durable consumer goods, a hire-purchase is an interest-free agreement
in which the lender shares ownership with the borrower. As the borrower
repays in installments, he gradually gains ownership of the asset. In
addition to periodic repayment of principal, the lender receives a share of
the imputed rental value, net of depreciation, of the item purchased in
proportion to its outstanding share in the total outlay. This instrument has
not been actively used thus far.
11.    Leasing.  A sale under which the price of the item procured including
profit is payable on a deferred basis in installments or lump sum. The lessor
(financial institution) retains ownership of the asset and the lessee has
possession and use of it against payment of rental over a specified period.
Since 1985, leasing has become a very popular instrument. The National
Development Leasing Corporation (NDLC), a joint venture between NDFC and Habib
Bank, have played a key role in developing the leasing business. Several
leasing companies have since been established and the use of leasing in
financing industry is likely to increase in the future as all DFIs started
offering leasing as one of the products.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 7
12.    Modaraba.  The Modaraba Ordinance of 1980 defines a Modaraba as a
business in which one party participates with his money and another with his
efforts and skills, and a Modaraba Company as a company engaged in the
business of floating and managing Modarabas. A Modaraba is basically an
investment fund (mutual fund) for which resources are obtained through the
sale of Modaraba certificates by a Modaraba Company. Banks and financial
institutions can register themselves as Modaraba Companies and in that
capacity, provide risk capital to Modarabas in the form of equity and credit
with equity (PLS) features. An important advantage of Modarabas is that it
enables project sponsors to mobilize funds directly from the public without
recourse to financial intermediaries. In this way, funds raised through
Modarabas fall outside the credit ceilings imposed by SBP. Modarabas can be
multi- or uni-purpose. Initially, a company registered under the existing
Companies Act was eligible for registration as a Modaraba Company provided
that it had paid-up capital of Rs 5 million, of which a minimum of Rs 2.5
million is allocated to its Modaraba operations; or solely engaged in Modaraba
activities with a paid-up capital of Rs 6 million. In order to encourage the
use of Modarabas, the Government subsequently lowered the limit on paid-up
capital to Rs 2.5 million. The Modaraba Company must invest in at least 10%
of the capital it offers to subscribers. The income of Modaraba Company is
tax exempt if at least 90% of its annual profits are distributed as dividend.
Modarabas have been widely used and one of the largest offering in the KSE in
1987 was the Grindlay's Modaraba. Given that Modaraba can be designed to meet
multiple needs, it is likely to grow in popularity.
13.    Musharikas.  Based on the PLS principle, the parties contribute capital
and/or effort in a specified venture. Profits are shared according to a
pre-agreed formula but losses, if any, are shared in proportion to the funds
contributed by each party. A proportion of profits is set aside for the
promoter as a management bonus for having managed the venture. Although in
principle a Musharika is a form of partnership, an amedment to the
Partnership Act of 1932 has excluded Musharika as a legal partner3hip in
Pakistan. Some Musharika agreements expressly specify that the relationship
between the banking company and its customer is that of debt and credit or,
allowing the payment of "reasonable compensation" or liquidated damages, in
addition to principal in the event of default. A Musharika financing scheme
was launched by NCBs on June 1, 1982, designed to meet the working capital
requirements of trade and industry. However, the scheme has not proved
popular and most working capital financing is being provided on a mark-up
basis.
The Impacts of Islamization
14.    The most important effect of Islamization has been the freeing of
financial rates of return particularly for term-lending and a more
market-oriented approach to the pricing of capital. By allowing financial
institutions to negotiate rates of return and mark-ups within a range of 10%



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
to 20% for short-term financing and setting only a minimum of 10% for term
lending, the term imbalance which existed under the interest-based system has
been corrected. Returns on PTCs and TFCs are being set at 15% compared to 11%
for industrial rupee term-lending under the previous system. Working capital
and trade financing through mark-ups have increased to 13-16%. If Government
continues to allow flexibility in the setting of rates, mark-ups and rates of
return on new financing modes will have a stronger allocative function than
was previously the case in Pakistan. By making returns more responsive to
market conditions, financial institutions can react more readily to changing
economic circumstances and adjust rates in the event of higher inflation.
15.    Because of its emphasis on equity or quasi-equity investment modes and
the need to develop alternative financing mechanisms, Islamization is
encouraging the diversification of financial instruments and a stronger role
for the private sector. Four leasing companies with majority private sector
ownership are already in operation. Modarabas enable private investors to
mobilize funds directly from the public and thus provide an additional source
of finance outside credit ceilings. Modarabas have become popular and it is
expected that the use of Modarabas will increase in the future. In the FY88
Budget Speech GOP has already announced that it would license at least four
private investment companies. Moreover, the Government has decided to divest
up to 20% of the shares of the NCBs which is expected to substantially
increase the supply of securities in the stock exchange. To encourage the
development of the stock market, the Government has decided to provide a tax
exemption on dividend income from publicly traded companies and has reduced
the corporate tax for publicly listed companies from 55% to 40%. An important
outcome of Islamization has been the abolition of stamp duty for all financial
transactions. This was a major constraint to the issuance of short-term
corporate paper in Pakistan.
16.    The effect of Islamization on deposits and the levels of savings has
been positive. Bank deposits have continued to expand. Since PLs returns are
determined by the profitability of each financial institution, NCBs and other
institutions have competed aggressively for funds. Therefore, initially the
return on PLs deposits increased. However, since 1985 these rates have
declined as NCBs have been building up their equity base by increasing
reserves. NCBs' ability to lend has also been constrained because of the
GOP's policy of following a conservative monetary policy. As of June 30,
1988, the loan/deposit ratio of the NCBs was 50%. The excess liquidity was
invested in treasury bills which yielded 6%. The effect of Islamization on
deposits and the level of savings has been positive. Since PLS returns are
determined by the profitability of each financial institution, commercial
banks and other deposit taking institutions have competed more aggressively
for funds, which have led to improved service and increased mobilization of
terms and savings deposits. In recent years commercial banks in Pakistan have
improved considerably their overall profitability while somewhat reducing
operating costs. It is unlikely that short run PLS returns would fall below



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 7
interest rates offered prior to Islamization. Over the long rur., to the
extent that the system can accommodate mninimum expected rates of return on PLS
deposits (e.g., through reserve funds or deposit insurance schemes) most of
the uncertainty and increased risk would be removed.
17.    Under Islamization, Pakistan's monetary policy has not been conducted
differently. Direct and selective controls are the primary instruments for
regulating the growth and distribution of domestic credit. The Annual Credit
Plan sets specific overall monetary and credit growth targets as well as
credit ceilings for each lending institution and minimum credit targets for
priority sectors. Although SBP has indirect instruments available to regulate
credit expansion--such as a 5% minimum cash reserve requirement, a 30%
liquidity ratio, and its rediscount rate-- these are not used. Under the new
system, bank liquidity has continued to be determined through credit
ceilings. GOP continues to set priority lending targets on commercial bank
lending. SBP's rediscount rate continue to be used mainly for liquidity
support to financial *nstitutions.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 11
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
THE CAPITAL MARKET
Background
1.     Pakistan has two stock exchanges, one each in Karachi and Lahore, with
the Karachi Stock Exchange (KSE) being the major center of activity. KSE
started in 1949 while the Lahore Stock Exchange was set up in 1970.
Substantial private investment and rapid growth of private enterprise in the
1950s created buoyant conditions on the KSE as reflected in aggregate market
capitalization and also in the number of new issues. However, lack of a
proper regulatory' framework resulted in substantial losses for some smaller
investors. The Securities and Exchange Ordinance was enacted in 1969 to
protect investors in corporate securities. Increased powers were thus
acquired by the regulatory authorities over listed companies and KSE,
especially with respect to disclosure of information relating to corporate
affairs. Constraints on private sector profitability in the late 1960s,
followed by the loss of East Pakistan, the devaluation in 1972, and the
Government's nationalization program depressed the stock market which
continued to stagnate throughout the i970s.  As a result oE Lhe imIpluvvd
economic climate and government measures to encourage the private sector since
1977, the stock market has revived considerably. However, it remains a
relatively marginal source of funds for private industrial investment.
The Stock Market
2.     Structure.  Stock exchanges in Pakistan principally trade only the
common l shares of companies registered in Pakistan. There is hardly any
trading in corporate debentures, preferred shares, and Government securities.
Under the Companies Ordinance, corporate entities are not permitted to issue
debentures or preference shares to the general public. However, in connection
with the proposed Third IIC project, GOP in July 1988 took necessary measures
to allow publicly listed companies to issue PTCs directly to the public.
Government securities have get rally been held by banks to satisfy liquidity
requirements. Under the proposed FSAL, the Government securities would be
auctioned and a secondary market would be created.
Termed "ordinary" shares in Pakistan.
ThL current 35% statutory liquidity requirement consists of 30%
invested in approved securities and a minimum reserve requirement of 5%
in cash.



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 11
3.     Stock exchanges regulations consists of requirements imposed by
legislation, and those imposed by the stock exchanges on their own members and
on publicly listed companies. Legislation consists of the Securities and
Exchange Ordinance (1969), and Rules (1971) and the new Companies Ordinance
(1984). The Corporate Law Authority (CLA) and the Registrar of Joint Stock
Companies are responsible for ensuring compliance with these Acts. New issues
are governed by the requirements of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade
Practices Ordinance (1970) and the Capital Issues Act (1947). The latter
gives full authority to approve all public issues to the Controller of Capital
Issues (CCI), who is a Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Finance. Listing on
a stock exchange in Pakistan was, in general, not the outcome of an
independent initiative by a company. Rather, it reflected the requirements of
either regulatory authorities or financial institutions, which imposed the
requirement as a condition for the provision of credit. Until July 1988, a
company was required to secure public status when its issued capital exceeds
Rs 10 million. To accelerate the growth of the stock market, GOP in July 1988
increased the limit from Rs 10 million to Rs 50 million. This measure could
lead to increase the supply of high quality shares as it would make it
possible for multinational companies to issue bonus shares without giving up
the control of the company. The measure would reduce the number of poor
quality shares. One of the major bottlenecks in the present system is that a
publicly listed company is obliged to offer 50% of its shares to the general
public. This requirement has discouraged many good companies from going
public because of the fear of giving up control.  GOP should consider relaxing
this requirement to increase the supply of high quality shares. GOP's
objective of broadening of ownership would be handled by establishing a
minimum size of public issue.
4.     Single capacity for both jobbing and broking prevail on both stock
exchanges. Membership of the Exchange is on an individual or partnership
basis with each partner a member in his own right, with the exception that a
father may introduce his son. The KSE has a fixed membership of 200, of whom
about 110 are currently active, but trading is dominated by about 30 members.
The Lahore Stock Exchange has 120 members of which only a handful are active.
Admission is controlled by the Board of each stock exchange within the
framework of the 1971 Securities and Exchange Rules. Members must be citizens
of Pakistan, and have some previous experience of the securities business. It
has become a matter of practice that members of KSE would satisfy a minimum
networth criterion of Rs 500,000. Outgoing members usually trade their
membership. The going rate has appreciated in recent years and at present, is
understood to be around Rs 1.0 million. While the Securities and Exchange
Ordinance provides the Federal Government with powers which could override the
board of a stock exchange, the board carries responsibility for regulation and
control of matters relating to dealing, registration and settlement in
addition to admission, disciplining and suspension of members. Although the
stock exchanges have requirements relating to disclosure, the regulations are
not generally rigorously enforced. Commission rates are fixed according to a
schedule set by the stock exchanges, varying inversely with the value of a
transaction.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 11
5.     Because of the limited role of the stock exchange in the financing
industry, the KSE was able to handle the volume of business without much
difficulty. The capital requirement of the individual was not a constraint.
However, given the increased volume and a greater role which is expected from
the KSE in financing private industry, there is clearly a need to expand the
membership of KSE and increase the capital requirement of the members. Better
capitalized and funded members would be able to operate more efficiently and
accelerate the growth of the market. Corporate membership will also increase
the range of services that would become available to both institutional and
individual members. It is, therefore, recommended that some DFIs such as
NDFC, BEL, and PICIC be allowed to become members of vhe stock exchange either
directly or through a subsidiary. The existing brokers on the KSE should be
encouraged to form partnerships or incorporated into specialized security
houses. Finally, GOP should also encourage joint ventures with foreign
brokerage firms to increase the range of services and professionalism.
Incentives for Investment in Equity
6.     The main incentives for investment in shares in Pakistan at present are:
(i)   Up to June 1985, profits earned from PLS banking accounts, income
from NIT units and dividend income from listed companies was free
from income tax up to a maximum of Rs 15,000. Since the dividend
yield on the listed stocks have ranged froi-.i 9% to 12%, the retuti-
on shares was substantially lower than tax-free yields of 15%
available under the National Savings Schemes (NSS). In connection
with the Second IIC Project, GOP in its FY86 budget exempted income
tax on dividends paid by listed companies for a period of three
years. Because of the very positive results, GOP in its 1988
budget decided to extend this incentive until FY91; and
(ii)   Overseas Pakistanis are allowed repatriation in foreign exchange of
original capital invested in listed shares after these are held for
one year. Dividend on shares acquired by overseas Pakistanis is
also repatriable. However, NIT units and NSS Khas Deposit
Certificates purchased abroad in foreign currency need not be held
for one year and are fully repatriable as to both capital and
income. Foreign investors, though not excluded from purchasing
Pakistan equities, have not done so because exchange regulations
prevent repatriation.
Capital Market Institutions
7.     The two most active participants in the stock market are the Investment
Corporation of Pakistan (ICP) and the National Investment Trust (NIT). ICP
underwrites new issues, operates 17 close-ended mutual funds including the
State Enterprise Mutual Fund and also manages an "Investors Scheme" comprising
cbout



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 11
10,700 discretionary or non-discretionary investment accounts with aggregate
investment of about Rs 412 million as of June 30, 1987. In operating its own
portfolio (valued at Rs 473 million as of June 30, 1987) ICP attempts market
stabilization through countercyclical action. NIT manages the only open-ended
mutual fund in the country. As of June 30, 1987, NIT had 60,000 unit
shareholders with total invested value of Rs 2.9 billion. The market value of
the investments stood at Rs 4.4 billion, reflecting an unrealized capital gain
of Rs 1.4 billion. Given the limited liquidity in the market, NIT has
followed a conservative policy of not reflecting the unrealized capital gains
in the asset value of its unit trust. Shares valued at around Rs 5 billion
are held by NIT and ICP inclusive of the latter's mutual funds and Investor's
Scheme. NIT has managed to ensure a fair return to its unit-holders
(currently around 14% against a sale price of Rs 11.50). The ICP mutual funds
have performed well with dividends from 13-24.2%. Average earnings of
investors under the Investor's Scheme have generally exceeded the rates of
dividend payment on its mutual funds. This compares favorably with the
dividend performance of the stock market as a whole.
8.     Companies listed on the KSE as of June 30, 1987, cover a wide spectrum
of commercial activity with cotton textiles accounting for 25%, chemicals and
pharmaceuticals 9%, sugar and allied industries 7%. Of the 376 listed
companies, 279 companies were wholly owned by private investors, and 65 were
joint sector companies, the balance 32 multinational companies. Multinational
companies have been cullbibLebL tly amonogst the bcst perfornmes ^n the stock
exchange. This is partly due to confidence in their management and partly
because they operate in sectors (for example, chemicals and pharmaceuticals)
which are more profitable and in which cost barriers to new entrants are
higher. They have also been relatively prompt in their dividend payments.
Recent Performance
9.     As a result of improvement in the economy and in the overall investment
climate, the turnover of shares on the KSE has accelerated rapidly since 1984,
corresponding in some degree to the rapid increase in the same period in the
market value of listed shares (Table 1 and Attachment 1).



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 11
Table 1:  Karachi Stock Exchange
Companies, Prices and Turnover
Aggregate
Market Value    General Index of
Number of   Paid-up      of Ordinary       Share Prices       Turnover of
Dec. 31   Companies   Capital         Shares         (1980/81 = 100)       Shares
-----Rs billion----                               -million-
1981       311 (2/)       8.1            6.9                99.4             35.3
1982       324            9.4           11.2               114.8             50.2
1983       327           10.0           15.2               148.3             76.0
1984       346           11.5           17.8               168.3             96.8
1985       362           13.6           22.8               166.5             84.3
1986       360           14.4           30.2               199.9            114.0
1987       379           15.8           32.0               228.4            157.3
The Lahore Stock Exchange has 247 listed companies all of which are
listed on the Karachi Stock Exchange as well. Its trading activity is
marginal.
2/     Eight companies delisted.
Source: Kar acL i Stock Exchae.
10.    Of the listed shares about 150 are regularly traded and there is an
active daily market in only 30. Of these, most are blue chip companies,
amongst which multinationals and selected engineering enterprises feature
prominently. Reasons for the relatively thin market in shares is in large
measure explained by the structure of share ownership. Since 1981, paid
capital of listed companies has almost doubled (from Rs 8.1 billion to Rs 15.8
billion), and the market value has more than quadrupled (from Rs 6.9 billion
to Rs 30.2 billion). Although the market capitalization has increased
substantially, its size is small in comparison to other developing countries
such as India (US$19.4 billion), Thailand (US$5.5 billion), Malaysia (US$18.5
billion). Attachment (2) shows market capitalization of major stock markets
for 1980-87 period. The rapid increase in stock prices reflects some
underlying improvements in important segments of industry (especially cotton
textiles, which account for nearly one-third of the listed companies), revival
of basic business confidence, recognition of political stability, and
clarification of the Government's policies in respect of the relative roles of
the private and public sectors. Another material factor has been returning
wealthy Pakistanis from the Middle East. Generally, most investors in
Pakistan both individual and institutional tend to be income oliented. Cash
dividend and high payout ratio weigh more heavily on their investment
decisions than potential capital gains. In 198b, 181 companies, or about 50%
of listed companies declared dividends.



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 11
Table 2: Frequency Distribution of Companies According to Regular
Dividends an a percentage of paid-in capital (1981 to 1986)
Range of Dividends                              Number of Companies
Percent                     1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
No. Dividend                     147      159     149      179     178      181
0.1-  5.0                        16       17      20       19      16       14
5.1 - 10.0
10.1 - 15.0                       64      64       79       79      79       71
15.1 - 20.0
20.1 - 30.0                       41      34       43       37      43       51
30.1 - 40.0                       24      19       17       17      22       22
40.0 - and above                  19       33      19       16      24       21
Source: Karachi Stock Exchange.
11.    The flow of new issues in 1987 and the further acceleration in the
first half of 1988 represents a considerable advance on previous years
(Table 3). The high average level of oversubscription which these new issues
attracted, together with the rapid growth in the funds under management with
ICP and NIT iudicates the potential dcmnand for equity *nstruments.
Nonetheless the average size of new flotations is relatively small and does
not reflect the potential. The requirement to price new issues at the mid-way
point between book value and "break-up value" has been replaced with another
formula that allows new issues to be priced at "break-up value" to a maximum
of 200 percent of book value. Excluded from the determination of "break-up"
value are reserves arising from the revaluation of assets. The formula now
employed could, therefore, in many instances, serves as a powerful
disincentive on companies to seek a listing. The high level of
over-subscription on new issues is partly explained by the almost certain
capital gain which the present pricing formula provides to investors. The
converse is, of course, the disincentive on the sponsors to distribute the
benefits of his efforts to outside shareholders. It is, therefore,
recommended that the valuation of companies seeking a listing should be left
to sponsors and their underwriters, determined in accordance with market
principles. Rather than emphasizing the "break-up value" of the company, this
approach would place emphasis on the earnings potential of the company, its
proposed dividend pay-out ratio and the potential for capital appreciation.
Such a market based valuation would also allow the pricing to reflect the
stock market and economic conditions prevailing at the time of issue, to which
the "break-up value" formula is insensitive.
12.    A number of recent issues have included amongst the underwriters some
individual members (brokers) from the Kararhi Stock Exchange. For



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 11
inexperienced companies coming to the Stock Exchange it maybe necessary to
consider safeguards to prevent brokers, when they are issued as underwriters
from setting too low a price on new issues. Thus, the proposal to allow the
issue price to be determined by sponsors and underwriters in accordance with
the criteria set out above applies to that situation where the underwriters
are drawn from the institutions. (See para. 13).
Table 3: New Issues Floated on Karachi Stock Exchange '
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
(June)
Number of companies           11       20      16       9       16      21
Funds mobilized               68.4   301      257      92.2   770      890
Source: Karachi Stock Exchange
'' Excludes Rights and Bonds Issues
Underwriting
13.    The present underwriting fee for new companies, which is set by the CCI
is a maximum of 2 1/2 per cent, with a further 2 1/2 per cent payable on
ta-lbe--up.  I n thL'Le case of ..odaraba the unAderwriti t . mi, sion. ls set at- one
per cent. Both situations should be replaced by a fee freely negotiated
between sponsor and underwriter to reflect market conditions. A corollary to
freely determined underwriting commissions is that underwriters should be
drawn from a much larger network than at present and should include all
interested DFIs. The private investment finance companies soon to be licensed
might also be included, but the capital is small and they will be restricted
to a maximum underwriting exposure to any one name of 50 per cent of net
worth. This broader involvement would be essential to ensure that
underwriting costs are kept to the minimum.
The Secondary Market
14.    It is essential that the liquidity of the equity markets be enhanced by
permitting the development of a well capitalised institutional market-making
capability. One way to develop this would be to encourage the formation of
partnerships amongst the existing brokers on the Karachi Stock Exchange, which
could lead to the formation and incorporation of specialised securities
houses. Selected DFIs such as NDFC and PICIC should be allowed to become
members of the Karachi Stock Exchange. The illiquidity of the equity market
in Pakistan is largely explained by the absence of market-makers, i.e.
corporate bodies committed to publishing a selling price and a buying price
and to holding an inventory of shares. The dominant position of the ICP and
NIT unit trusts amongst the institutional shareholders also mean that they



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 11
have a strong influence on the price of quoted shares each time they enter the
market. The development of private sector unit trusts, which is permitted by
the Ordinance Governing the finance houses would seem to be desirable. Whilst
ICP and NIT have been able to increase the dividend yield on their investment
and compete with National Saving Schemes instruments and Khas Deposits, it is
likely that a liquid market with other institutional players would enable unit
trust managers to more readily realize capital gains on the investments.
New Corporate Law
15.    In 1984, GOP passed "The Companies Ordinance, 1984" to replace the 1913
Companies Act, that had constituted the core of Pakistani corporate
legislation supported by an assortment of other enactments, most of which were
also substantially repealed. The stated objectives of the new Act seeks the
achievement of healthy growth of corporate enterprises, protection of
investors and creditors, promotion of investment, development of the economy,
and matters arising out of or connected therewith. Greater shareholder
control has been attempted through provisions for more open management, making
it obligatory for managements to supply more detailed information on the
Cempany's working and accounts, limits on management authority in sensitive
areas, protection of minority shareholders and creditors and more effective
supervision and control. Stringent provisions have been made to prevent abuse
of power by the directors through the holding of more frequent company
meetings, and prescription of quorwuu requlLemments for company and board
meetings. Criminal liability of the directors and relevant corporate officers
has been stipulated for non-compliance with a variety of provisions.
Shareholder(s) having an aggregate 20% equity interest or creditors with an
equivalent exposure to a company can seek judicial reorganization of tLe
company's affairs, including transfer of shares between shareholders and
termination of the company's contracts with directors or its chief executive
officer.
Prospects and proposed measures to accelerate the growth
16.    Since 1984, the capital markets in Pakistan has been playing an
increasingly important role. In connection with the Second IIC Project, the
Government took a number of concrete measures in the FY86 budget. These
included: (i) reduction in the corporate tax rate for listed companies from
50% to 40% (privately held companies are taxed at 55%) I'; (ii) income tax
exemption on dividend paid by the listed companies; (iii) a decision to allow
private investment finance companies to perform all banking functions except
deposit taking; and (iv) introduction of bearer bonds in foreign and local
currency to attract "black money" and mobilize additional resources. The
operations of the Karachi and Lahore Stock Exchanges have also been modernized
through technical assistance under the second IIC project.
"    Effective from July 1988, the tax rate was reduced to 45X.



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 11
17.    The measures tal:en so far have had positive impact on the stocK market
and the number of listed companies has increased from 353 to 400. The market
capitalization of the Karachi Stock Exchange reached US$2.0 billion at the end
of 1987. However, the number of listed companies of 400 remains small in
comparison to the 15,000 registered companies. In order to further accelerate
the development of capital markets, the following additional measures should
be considered. First, the use of debt finance should be reduced (para. 18) so
that there is more incentive to raise equity. An example of India may be of
interest. Until 1984, the number of listed companies in the Bombay Stock
Exchange was about 1500. In late 1984, the government instructed all
government financial institutions not to provide more than 60% financing for
any investment projects and the companies were forced to resort to borrowing
from the capital markets either in the form of convertible debentures or
equity. The policy worked very well and the number of listed companies
increased to 3.000 within two years. Second, the number of participants in
the stock markets should oe increased. For example, the private investment
companies and some DFIs should be allowed to become members of the stock
exchanges. Third, to increase the distribution network for shares in the
country, commercial banks should be allowed to perform trust functions on
behalf of their clients. Fourth, the pricing of new issues in the stock
markets should be left completely to the market participants. Fifth, the
corporate sector should be allowed to issue PTCs directly to the public.
Excessive Leverage/Bridge Loans
18.    A large number of projects financed during the last three years were
highly leveraged and concentrated in the textile sector. The present
financing pattern is based on a debt/equity ratio of 60-40%. However, only
22.5% is required in sponsorts equity with the balance of 17.5% provided in
the form of bridge loans. Some institutions also do not require the sponsors
to deposit their equity contribution at loan signing. Since there is a time
lag of about one year between the time of opening the letter of credit and
negotiating documents, there is usually an increase in cost of machinery. The
resulting financing gap is generally financed by the lending institution. As
a result, the effective debt/equity ratio is closer to 90:10. Furthermore, it
tends to take another year or two to implement the project and the stake of
the investor becomes negligible. The bridge loans of the profitable companies
are repaid when called and they normally do not issue shares to the public,
while the companies with poor records are not in a position to sell their
shares. Therefore, the present practice and regulations need to be reviewed
to promote sound industrial growth. In this connection, it is recommended
that: (i) bridge loan be included as debt in the debt/equity ratio of 60:40
for projects financed under the Bank project. In order for them to implement
the project the sponsors should be encouraged to raise the funds directly from
the stock market either in the form of shares or PTCs.



I'A K ISTAN
1'110       ltU:It       l918          19141        1'M4         PI'S         1'1ni        IN7
A.  NUMBER Of LISTED COMPANIES
Karachi Slock Exchange LTD.                        314          311          326          321          347          362           361          379
8.  MARKET CAPITALIZATION
I) In Rupees                                     6.361        8.54i        11,267       15,201       18.834       21,900       29,491       34,300
2) In US Odlars                                    643           ill         877         1,126        1,226        1,3t0        1,710         1,960
C.  TRADING VAIUE*
1) In Rupees                                                    ---                        -            -            -          2.583        2,813
2) In US Dollars                                                 --           -            -            -            -            155          162
3) Turnovew   a                                                               -Rat                                                8.8          8.2
0.  LOCAL INDEX
I) SOP Index (1980    = 100)                      94.0         9914         114.8        1483         168.3        166.5        199.9        2284
2) Change in Index (%)                           -16.8          5..7         15.5         29 2         13.5         -1.1         201          14 3
E.  EMERGING MARKETS DATA BASE
1) Number d Slocksin EMDBSample                    -             -            -            -            52           52           52            51
2)-EMOB Share od Maikel Cap. (%)                    -            -            -            -           40.6         42.6         38.0         32.9
3) EMOB Total Returns Index (Dec84 = 100)          -             -            -            -          100.0        117.8         42.3        144.5
4) Change in (MOB Index (%)                                      -                                                  17.8         20.8          1.6
F.  ECONOMIC DIA
1) Gross Domestc Product (m US S)               74,031       28,C26       25,141       27.094       27.264       29,930        31,142       34,708
2) Consumer Price Index (1980=100)               100.0        I112.4        123.3        129.2        139.9        150.4        147.2        154.3
3) Exchange Rales (End of Perod)                9.9noo       9.xm0       12.840        1' 5200      15.300       M5S9=0       17.250       17.5000
4) Exchange Rates (herage o Period)             9.9000       9.911       11.8475      131170        14.0463      15.9284      16.6480      17.3990
'*.4 COKtfd by The   Us I1 1i i6
CugrewV a_mIrf   n
Source:    IFC  -  Emerging  tMarket  Data  Base
it, >4



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Page I1 of 11
Attachment 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRO INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
MARKET CAPITALIZATION
(in US$ Millions)
DEVELOPED
MARKETS                          8         192        1           1984        15           1286 
Japan           370.200    417.000    417,400    545,800    644.400    910,000  1,841,785  2.802.956
USA           1.448,120  1.333,385  1,520,167  1.898.063  1.862,945  2,324.646  2,636,598  2,588,890
UK              205,200    180.600    196.200    196.200    242,700    328.000    439,500    680,721
Canada          118,300    1OS,500    103.500    140.600    134,700    147.000    166,300    218.817
Germany          71.700      62.600      68.900     82,600      78.400    183.765    257,677    213,166
France           54.600      38,100     28.000      38.100      41,100      79.000    149.500    172,048
Australia        59.700      54.400     41,500      59,600      49,900      59,877     94,035    171,783
S. Africa       100,000      74.900     77,800      82,800      53,400      55,439    102,652    128,663
Switzerland      37.600      35.200     36.800      42,500      38.700     90,000    132,400    128.527
Italy            25.300      24,000      19,900     20.900      25,700      58,502    140,249    119,559
Netherlands      29.300      23.000      25.700     33,700      31.100      59,363     83,714      86,240
Spain            16.600      16.700      11,100     10,900      13,200      19,000     48,922      71,188
Sweden           12.900      17.200      18,600     30,200      25,700      37,296     63,354      70,564
Hong Kong        39,104      38.912      18,784      17,095     23,602      34.504     53,789      54,088
Belgium           10,000      8.400       8,SOO     10,800      12.200      20,871     37,337      41,377
Luxembourg        4,017       4.457      4,686       5,799       6.648      12.658     26.163      38.277
Denmark            5.400      6,200       5,500     10.600       7,600      15,096      16,284     20.181
Singapore        24,418      34.808      31.235     15.525      12,247      11.069      16.620     17,931
Israel            4,828       6,972      15.894      5,083       6,120       7.626      9,884      12,001
Norway             3.190      3,334       2,396      4.597       5,793      10,063      10.122     11,818
Austria            2.000      i,boo       1,500       1,500      1,SOO       4,602      6,656       7,411
Sub-total   2,642.477  2,487,269  2,654,061  3.282,564  3.317.654  4,468.376  6,333,541  7,656,206
EMERGING MARKETS
Taiwan, China     6,082       S.312       5.086      7,599       9,889      10,432      15.367     48,634
Korea              3,829      4,224       4,408      4,387       6,223       7,381      13,924     32,905
Malaysia          12,395     15,300      13.903     22,798      19.401      16,229      15,065     18,531
Brazil            9,221      12,574      10,261     15,100      28,994      42,768     42,096      16,900
India             7,585      11.802*    11,497*      8,510       8,018      14.364     13.588      15,877
Mexico            12,994     10,100       1.719       3,004      3.661       4.163       5,952     12,674
Portugal             191        156          92          84         73         192         748      8,857
Thailand           1,206      1,003       1.260       1,488      1,720       1,856      2,878       5.485
Chile             9,400       7,050       4,395      2.599       2,106       2.012      4,062       4,341
Greece             3,016      2.266       1,923         964        766         765       1,129      4,464
Venezuela          2.657      2,441       2,415      2.792        n.a.       1.128       1,510      2,278
Turkey              477         511         952        968         956        n.a.        935       3.221
Philippines       2,096       1.738       1,236       1,298        834         669      2,008       2,948
Jordan             1,605      2,457       2.845      2,713       2,188       2.454      2,839       2,643
Pakistan            643         864         877      1,126       1.226       1.370      1,710       1,960
Argentina          3,864      2.056         974       1,386      1,171       2.037       1,591      1,519
Colombia           1.605      1.399       1,322         857        762         416         822      1,255
Nigeria            3.118      3.010       1.458      2,970       3,191       2,743       1,112        974
Zimbabwe           1,456       n.a.         355         265        176         360        410         718
Sub-total      83.438      84,262     66,979      80,908      91.355    111,341    127,744    187,186
TOTAL         2,725.915  2,571.530  2.721.040  3,363,472  3,409,009  4.579.717  6.461,285  7.843,392
* Estimated



- 75 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of I
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
PROJECTED PRIVATE INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT
(FY89/91-1990/91)
FY89        FY90         FY91       Total
Medium and large-scale Industries (MLSI)
(Constant)                  12.0         12.5         13.6        38.1
(Current)                   12.6         13.8         15.7       42.1
Small-scale Industries
(Constant)                   3.6          4.1          4.5        '2.2
(Current)                    3.7          4.5          5.1        13.3
Total
(Constant)                  15.6         16.6         18.1       50.3
(Current)                   16.3         18.2         20.8        55.3
Foreign       Local
currency     currency       Total        X
Projected investments in MLSI
(Rs million)                     25,300.0      16,800.0   42,100.0
(US$ million)                     1,427.1         951.4    2,378.5   100.0
Financing Plan
Sponsors                            100.0         435.0       535.0    22.5
Suppliers' Credit                   200.0                     200.0      8.4
Financial Institutions                0.0         280.0       280.0    11.8
Bilateral Sources                   200.0                     200.0      8.4
Asian Development Bank              400.0                      400.0    12.6
Capital Markets                       0.0         236.4        236.4     9.9
Total                          900.0         951.4    1,851.4    73.6
GAP                                     527.1           0.0       527.1    73.6
To be finance by Bank/IDA            150.0           0.0       150.0      6.3
GAP                                     377.1                     377.1    20.1
Total                        1,427.1         951.4    2,378.5   100.0
September 15, 1988



- 76 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
HABIB BANK LIMITED
Background
1.     Habib Banic Limited (HBL), the first commercial bank in Pakistan, is one
of the five nationalized commercial banks (NCBs). With total assets of Rs
145.8 billion (US$8.4 billion), it remains the largest bank in Pakistan and
ranks among the 500 largest in the world. It has almost 25,000 employees
spread over 1,813 branches in 70 zones under 17 circle offices and four
provincial headquarters in Pakistan. It maintains 65 overseas branches and 5
representative offices in 20 countries and two subsidiary companies in
Hongkong and Australia involved in merchant banking operations.
Organization, Management and Staffing
2.     Beginning in 1986, HBL like other NCBs, established four provincial
headquarters to achieve greater decentralization. These are headed by members
of the Executive Board (MEB) with approval authority of up to Rs. 20 million
(except loans under the World Bank/ADB credit lines). HBL now has seven major
groupings, each headed by a MEB with the rank of Senior Executive
Vice-President (SEVPs) who are also full-time members of HBL's Executive Board
which supervises overall bank operations. Its Board of Directors includes the
President as chairman, one representative each from the Pakistan Banking
Council (PBC) and Ministry of Finance, and the seven SEVPs. Except for small-
scale-industries (under the Agricultural/Small Scale Division), HBL's all term
lending activities (ADB, syndicated loans, suppliers credits) is handled by
the Industrial Credit Division (ICD). The ICD is under the same MEB in charge
of other operational divisions such as Corporate Credit, Law, and
International Divisions which is appropriate for better coordination of
lending activities.
Overall Performance
3.     HBL's performance in the last five years is summarized in Table 1.  HBL
has shown continued growth in size and volume of operations while maintaining
its profit margins despite constraints arising mainly from credit ceilings.
HBL's liquid assets were high in 1987 but its overall return was lower due to
investment of surplus funds in lower yield securities resulting from credit
ceiling restrictions. However, it was able to maintain its average gross
financial margin at about 2.6% and its administrative costs remain at the
level of 1.8% of average total assets which is on the high side but reasonable
for a large retail banking operation. Return on equity averaged about 17%



- 77 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
in the last five years but was down to 9.4% in 1987 due to a large increase in
paid-in capital from Rs 543 million to Rs 2,478 million (4.5 times). This is
appropriate and HBL is better capitalized with equity of 3.7% as a percent of
total assets compared to only 2.6% in the previoup y.2ars.
Table 1: HBL - KEY FINANCIAL FIGURES
1983-1987
(Rs billion)                   1983        1984        1985         1986       1987
Liquid Assets                  20.2        21.0        25.6         23.3       38.0
Loans and Advances             30.4        34.0        39.1         48.0       47.6
Investments                    11.2        11.4        11.5         13.5       15.0
Total Assets                   82.2        91.4       107.5        119.3      146.1
Total Deposits             54,966      61,933      70,698       75,000    86,119
Equity                      1,896       2,191       2,799        3,155      5,433
Paid-in Capital             543         543         543          543      2,478
Reserves                  1,353       1,648       2,256        2,612      2,955
(Rs million)
Income before Tax             751         828         840          843        852
Income Tax                  400         500         200          450        450
Net Income                    351         328         640          393        402
Dividends                    33          33          33           33         43
RATIOS (percent)
Liquid Assets/
Total Deposits               36.8        33.9        36.2         31.1       44.1
Advances/Total
Deposits                     55.3        55.0        55.4         64.0       55.3
Equity/Totai Assets (X)         2.3         2.4         2.6          2.6        3.7
Adm. Expenses/Average.
Total Assets                  1.8         1.8         1.9          1.8        1.9
Net Income/Average
Equity                       22.1        16.1        25.6         13.2        9.4
Source: HBL



- 78 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
Industrial Credit Division
4.     The ICD is headed by an Executive Vice-President with 32 staff members
of which 17 are professionals. These have received training in project
finance including seven who attended foreign training programs arranged and
financed under the TA component of IIC-II. The ICD now has adequate staff
capabilities for project financing. The Division is responsible for
processing all term loans. With expanding operations particularly in
supervision activities, ICD is adopting some organizational adjustments as
follows. ICD would be divided into four major sections: project appraisal,
end-use, supervisioni/monitoring, legal and administration. These sections
will now handle loan processing irrespective of the different credit lines.
The staff could be further grouped into sectoral assignments (project team
concept should be considered) with some flexibility depending on the pipeline
of projects. The end-use and supervision/monitoring sections could be
organized along the same structure although staffing would depend on the
expected volume and arrangements with HBL's circle/branch offices particularly
the "project finance department" (PFD) in its provincial headquarters.
Conpared to its previous structure, the major change is the establishment of a
monitoring section which is appropriate since many of the subprojects are now
being completed or are in operation. This reorganization is satisfactory and
would be finalized in 1988.
Policies and Procedures
5.     HBL's focus will remain on commercial banking operations which is
appropriate. In 1979, HBL and other NCBs initiated project financing in
industry as part of financial crnsortia organized and led by the ICP/BEL and
other DFIs. This activity expanded with its participation under the Bank's
credit lines under the first and second IIC projects. These operations have
been guided by HBL's Policy and Strategy Statement which is updated annually.
Under the proposed project, HBL has agreed to update these statemencs to
reflect its project financing activities. With reference to the textile
sector, its policy statement will indicate that its financing would be
directed to projects with higher value-added products and that new projects in
spinning of lower count yarn will be discouraged particularly under the
proposeu project. The ICD is also preparing a formal operational manual wLich
is appropriate.
Bank's IIC Projects
6.     Prior to 1985 and the Bank's IIC projects, HBL's term lending
operations were mainly in local currency. The NCBs have recently been made
eligible under the SBP's LMM refinance scheme although the amounts involved
are still small. Furthermore, a large portion was for the public sector with
about 78' uf outstanding loans. Beginning 1984 when the loans under IIC-I
became et._%.tive and in line with GOP's emphasis on private sector



- 79 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
participation, the structure and level of HBL's term lending have changed. As
a percent of total approvals, foreign currency loans represented over 50% and
loans to the private sector accounted for about 82%. Loans under the IIC
projects amounted to US$ 62.5 million (Rs 1,078 million) or about 48% of total
approvals in FY84-FY87. HBL accounted for 25% of total approvals under the
Bank's Loans which is substantial for a new PFI. New projects (18,
represented 80% of total projects. However, only 8 projects (36%) accounted
for 50% of the total amounts and were all granted to the textile sector. Like
many financial institutions, HBL was responding to the boom in the textile
sector in 1986/87.
7.     Most of HBL's projects are still under implementation and under the
grace period. HBL approved a total of 22 projects but 7 projects for a total
loan approval of Rs 295.0 million were withdrwan (six projects under IIC-I for
Rs 253 million and one project under IIC-II for Rs 42 million) or a net
approval of US$ 38.7 million or 15.5% of the Bank loans. As of the end of
1987, total arrears were about 2.5% of the outstanding portfolio. Although
the level of arrears is low, HBL has taken necessary measures to step up
monitoring. The ICD closely monitors its arrears position not only on its
Bank subloans but on total term lending operations. It was agreed that HBL
will maintain a minimum cash collection ratio of 80% on current dues on its
Bank's subloans in order to remain eligible under the IIC-III. HBL should
also examine the approvals which have been inactive for over 12 months to
determine adequacy of financing due to cost over-runs which are likely and
overall financial viability.
Prospects
8.     As the largest bank in Pakistan with a good client base and an improved
capital structure, HBL should continue to grow and show satisfactory financial
performance. Overall, HBL is a sound financial institution and will be
included in the Project as a PFI. As of June 30, 1988, its pipeline for
project financing is significant with about US$54 million of financing
requirements (excluding projects approved and referred to ADB of US$36
million). HBL projects about US$20 million in annual approvals based on its
experieace under the previous IIC projects which ^ould be on the low side.
HBL's overall strategy remains sound and will be updated to reflect its new
priorities. In addition to expanding its merchant banking activities, HBL
expects to cautiously tap long-term resources from the international mark'-.
Given its size and excellent reputation, HBL should also play an active role
in developing the domestic capital markets by assisting its clients in
floating new issues and short-term commercial papers (initially, this may
require a recourse to HBL).



- 80 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
UNITED BANK LTD.
Background
1.1    The United Bank Ltd. (UBL), originally established in 1959 as a private
commercial bank expanded rapidly in the 1960s and is now the third largest
nationalized commercial bank in Pakistan with assets of Rs 79 billion (US$4.4
billion) as of December 31, 1987. It has 1,588 branches, five of which are
overseas (UK, USA and Mid East).
Management and Organisation
1.2    UBL's operational policy is controlled by a ten-member Board of
Directors which include the President, seven Members of the Executive Board
(MEB), a member of the PBC and a representative of the Ministrv of Finance.
All the directors are appointed by the Government. The day-to-day operations
and supervision of the affairs and business of UBL is the responsibility of
its Executive Board which consists of the President and seven members who are
senior full time officers of UBL. UBL's present President is an experienced
banker who immediately prior to this appointment was a member of NBP's Board.
1.3    UBL's organizatiu.oal structure is appropriate considering the diverse
areas of its operations and location of its branches. The organization
comprises seven major groupings each headed by a Member of the Executive Board
(MEB) with the rank of Senior Executive Vice President. Three MEB's are
stationed at Head Office, Karachi and look after the controlling Divisions
(Term Finance, Establishment and Overseas; short-term credit and Finance; and
Planning and Audit). Four MEB's are stationed at the four Provincial
Headquarters as regional directors. UBL's term financing activities are
handled at the Head Office by the Industrial Credit Division (ICD) supported
by the Provincial MEB Offices and Circles Offices. ICD is headed by a Vice
President (VP), who reports directly to the MEB in charge of the Division.
The ICD also handles and coordinates activities related to Consortium for
local currency loans. It has a total staff of 17 all being professionals
well-trained in project appraisal and end use supervision techniques. During
the past five years they have gained substantial experience. The ICD staff
review all proposals for financing by the World Bank as well as through local
consortia. The major functional grouping in the ICD are (1) Appraisal &
Engineering Department; (2) Supervision & End Use Department; (3) Legal
Department; and (4) Consortium Finance Dept.



- 81 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
Operational Performance
1.4    Since 1982 UBL's deposits have grown from Rs. 27 billion to Rs. 56
billion in 1987 or by 108%. This has provided an expanded resource base for
the increasing level of advances which have grown from Rs. 18 billion in 1982
to Rs. 34 billion in 1987. Term financing over last three years has amounted
to about Rs. 450 million. UBL already a participant in the Bank's Small-Scale
Industries projects also participated in the Second IIC project with
cowmittments of about $21 million for 6 sub-projects, which are, in well
diversified sectors. UBL also continues to be involved in consortium
financing which is led by Bankers' Equity Ltd. (and participated by all NCBs
compulsorily). The Consortium lending suffers from the problems of
implementation and excessive arrears due to lack of focus of responsibility
for project appraisal, supervision and recoveries. Measures to address this
problems which is common to all consortium participants, are being addressed
under the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan by removing the compulsion
for such participation and making it voluntary.
Financial Performance
1.5    UBL's financial results have improved since 1982.  Net income rose from
a very low level of Rs 29 million in 1982 to Rs 186 million in 1987. However,
the net income in 1987 was flat in comparison to 1986 due mainly to the
limitations of credit ceiling which compel UBL to invest excess liquidity in
low yield treasury bills (6%). At end of 1987 the total equity was Rs 1.5
billion.
Prospects
1.6    UBL has shown continuing growth and satisfactory performance which is
likely to improve further under the reforms being considered by GOP under the
proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan. UBL has a project pipeline of
about US$ 14 million, for four subprojects which are again well diversified
among the industrial sectors. UBL has been very selective in financing
projects. It has built up a good cadre of staff. Overall, UBL is eligible
and will be included in the Project as a PFI.
1.7    Eligibility Criteria.  UBL will be required to maintain a minimum
collection ratio of 80% on Bank's subloans. Collection ratio is defined as
follows: cash collection on interest and principal divided by current dues on
interest and principal.



- 82 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
MUSLIM COMMERCIAL BANK
Background
1.1    The Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB), originally established in Calcutta,
India in 1947 as a private commercial bank under the Adamjee business house,
is now the fourth largest nationalized commercial bank (NCB) in Pakistan with
assets of Rs 36.7 billion (US$2.1 billion) as of December 31, 1987. It has
1,265 branches, two of which are in the UK. It employs 12,845 staff.
Although principally a commercial bank, MCB is also active in term lending
which now accounts for 20% of its total portfolio.
Management and Organisation
1.2    MCB's operational policy is controlled by a ten-member Board of
Directors which include the President, seven Members of the Executive Board
(MEB), a member of the PBC and a representative of the Ministry of Finance.
All the directors are appointed by the Government. The day-to-day operations
and supervision of the affairs and business of MCB is the responsibility of
its Executive Board which consists of the President and seven members who are
senior full time officers of MCB. MC?'a present President is an experienced
banker who immediately prior to thit zpnointment was a member of UBL's Board
with direct responsibility for tern lending activities.
1.3    MCB's organizational structure is appropriate considering the diverse
areas of its operations and location of its branches. The organization
comprises seven major groupings each headed by a Member of the Executive Board
(MEB) with the rank of Senior Executive A74ce President. Three MEB's are
stationed at Head Office, Karachi and lotk after the controlling Divisions
(personnel and administration; short-term credit and audit; and term finance
and accounts). Four MEB's are stationed at the four Provincial Headquarters
as regional directors. MCB's term financing activities are handled at the
Head Office by the Industrial Credit (Project) Division (ICD) supported by the
Provincial MEB Offices and Ciicles offices. ICD is headed by a Senior Vice
President (SVP), who reports directly to the MEB in charge of the Division.
The ICD also handles and coordinates activities related to Consortitu for
local currency loans. It has a total staff of 34 of which 12 are
professionals. The major functional grouping in the ICD are (1) Appraisal &
Engineering Department; (2) Supervision & Monitoring Department; (3)
Statistical & Computerisation Department; and (4) Economic/Research Cell. MCB
needs to fill up the middle-level vacancies at the Assistant Vice President
level by suitable persons as project implementation and supervision of



- 83 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
projects under IIC II will need adequate attention. Furthermore project
appraisal and sanctioning should continue to be centralised at MCB's
headquarters at Karachi.
Operational Performance
1.4    Since 1982 MCB's deposits have grown from Rs. 12.7 billion to Rs. 22.6
billion in 1987 or by 79%. This has provided an expanded resource base for
the increasing level of advances which have grown from Rs. 9.8 billion in 1982
to Rs. 13.1 billion in 1987. Term financing which was only 5% of MCB's
portfolio in 1984 has steadily increased to 20% (para 1.1). MCB is an active
participant under the Bank's Small-Scale Industries projects. MCB also
participated in the Second IIC project with committments of about $34 million
for six sub-projects in the textile sector. MCB has recognized the need to
diversify and has developed E. strategy to reduce its exposure in the textile
sector. MCB also continues to be involved in consortium financing and in the
period from FY82 to FY87 it provided an average of Rs 500 million in local
currency funding annually. Consortium financing, which is led by Bankers'
Equity Ltd. (and participated by all NCBs compulsorily) suffers from the
problems of implementation and excessive arrears due to lack of focus of
responsibility for project appraisal, supervision and recoveries. Measures to
resolve this problem which is common to all consortium participants, are being
addressed under the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan by removing the
compulsion for such participation and making it voluntary.
Financial Performance
1.5    MCB's financial performance during the six year period 1982-1987 has
been satisfactory. Profit before tax which amounted to Rs 125 million in 1982
rose to Rs 200 million in 1987, an average annual growth rate of about 152.
The increase for 1987 was, however, higher at 39%. This is good performance
considering the limitations of credit ceiling which compel MCB to invest
excess liquidity in low yield Government bonds. During 1987 the total equity
was raised from Rs 778 million to Rs 1,245 million and the before tax returns
on total assets and net worth were 0.5% and 162 respectively.  MCB's
profitability is satisfactorv.
Prospects
1.6    MCB has projected continuing growth and satisfactory performance which
is likely to improve further under the reforms being considered by GOP under
the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan. MCB has a project pipeline of
about US$ 45 million, of which four sub-projects for about US$18 million have
already been submitted to the ADB for financing under DFL III. Except for
two in the engineering sector, the entire pipeline is for textile projects.
Thus, MCB will need to select sub-projects with due care to discourage



- 84 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
financing of new low count spinning mills. Furthermore, MCB has agreed to
fill up its large number of vacancies in ICD to ensure continuation of
satisfactory project appraisal centralised at its headquarters in Karachi and
due attention to supervision of projects under implementation. For the latter
MCB would also avail the technical assistance under IIC I/IIC II for providing
the necessary training to the ICD staff.
1.7    Eligibility Criteria.  MCB will be required to maintain a minimum
collection ratio of 80% on Bank's subloans. Collection ratio is defined as
follows: cash collection on interest and principal divided by current dues on
interest and principal. Furthermore MCB should keep its ICD adequately
staffed.



- 85 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
NATIONAL BANK OF PAK'STAN LTD.
Introduction
l.     NBP is the second largest of the Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCBs)
and the only one that was established originally under Government ownership in
1949, rather than nationalized in the early 1970s. Its organizational and
operational patterns, however, are essentially similar to those of the other
NCB's, all of them subject to a great measure of direction and control by the
Government and the State Bank of Pakistan.
Financial Aspects
2.     NBP's total assets have grown progressively from Rs 55.8 billion at
end-1983 to Rs 92.2 billion in 1987; its aggregate loans and investments from
Rs 36.7 billion to Rs 71.2 billion; and its deposits from Rs 40.6 billion to
Rs 63.2 billion. Net profits before tax increased from Rs 193 million in 1983
to Rs 330 million in 1987. Return on assets has been moderate, varying over
the five years from 0,345% to 0.39% with 0.36% for 1987. Return on equity for
1987 was reduced by a sharp increase in capital during the year, from Rs 561
million to Rs 1,464 million with only a modest reduction of reserves; combined
capital and reserves were Rs 15 billion at end-1986, Rs 26 billion at end
1987; the net return on the latter year's figure was only 12%. Only Rs 25.6
million were paid as dividends, while Rs 188 million were added to reserves.
Organization, Management and Staffing
3.     NBP's organization is relatively decentralized.  As of end-1987 it had
1,396 branches (including 22 overseas and 54 booths). The president is
supported by 2 Members of Executive Bcard (MEB) at Head Office (HO), each
charged with oversight of a group of functions and a MEB is normally resident
in and supervises operations for each of four provincial centers. Reporting
to the latter are a hierarchy of 11 regicnal offices, 32 zonal offices and the
subordinate domestic branches.
4.     Most of NCB's commercial banking activity is handled by the field
offices, without reference to HO except for reporting and periodic inspe_tion
and audit. Term lending, however, including that under the IDA credit for
small scale industries, is more centralized, with Long Term Financing
Departments in each of the provincial and some of the larger regional offices,



- 86 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
heading up to a Project Finance Division at HO. While some term loans may be
generated by HO, most originate with one of the 250 branches designated to
receive and initially process term loan applications. The application form is
standard, and is filled out by the project sponsor with help, if needed, from
the NBP branch manager. The latter reviews it against a standard checklist
and, if he finds it acceptable for consideration, transmits it to his zonal
office; there it is again reviewed and forwarded with a recommendation to the
regional office, which has limited technical staff (engineers, financial
analysts) who can comment, raise and investigate questions, etc. For
relatively small scale projects, the definitive appraisal would normally be
effected at the office of the provincial MEB, the Long Term Fina7cing
Department which is more adequately staffed, and if the appraisal is
favourable the project goes to the Provincial Credit Committee. The latter
has sanctioning authority up to Rs 20 million for "fund based" projects (for
which funds are fully and firmly earmarked) and up to Rs 40 million for
"non-fund-based" projects (involving a guarantee or other contingent
commitment); the distinction seems tenuous, but widely used. No term loan can
be sanctioned at a lower lev2l than the Provincial Credit Committee. Larger
loan requests go to the Executive Credit Committee at HO. The Project Finance
Division at HO is responsible for directly appraising large projects and makes
ex post appraisals of other loans sanctioned by Provincial Credit Committees
(including all those to be financed from World Bank, IDA, ADB or other
international sources) in order to identify any deficiencies in the preceding
evaluations, effect their correction insofar as possible and highlight lessons
for the future.
S.     Once the loan is approved, a standard sanction letter is sent to the
sponsor, specifying the terms and conditions, and corresponding instructions
are sent to the field office concerned, with respect to the rupee portion of
loans - foreign exchange disbursements are administered by the PFD/HO. Each
disbursement must be documented as sanctioned before another installment is
released. Responsibility for supervision and recovery rests mainly with the
branch management, subject to zonal and regional office supervision. Periodic
visits are paid from HO both to field offices and to projects; and surprise
visits are made to a sample of 5% of the projects yearly. NBP's experience
with term lending for larger projects is too brief to establish a record of
recoveries, but for its IDA/SSI credits the recovery rate is running at
78-80%, which is in line with other banks.
Term Lending
6.     The term lending staff is still being built to full strength, but the
numbers are growing and the levels of training and experience of many of those
already in place are quite respectable. An intensive training effort has been
mounted with strong support from the MEB in charge. NBP has sent 200
participants through the Pakistan Development Banking Institute courses, and
30 people for in-service training with DFIs abroad. An in-house Institute of



- 87 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
Banking Education and Training has been established, under competent and
dynamic direction; and a varied curriculum, based mainly on practical case
studies, has been initiated or programmed, and participants from other
financial or business firms are included. Term lending principles and
techniques occupy a leading place, and The Human Resources Management and
Systems Division (of which the Institute is part) is developing a package of
employment terms and conditions for personnel engaged in term finance, making
them a special cadre (estimated completion date mid-July, 1988).
7.     Up to now NBP has done little or no direct term lending, except for
small scale industries and as member of consortia led by other banks. It
clearly is desirous, and is preparing itself, to engage much more actively in
industrial project financing circumspectly at first but with a definitely
expansionist aim. A draft "strategy statement and business policy guidelines
for project finance" is attached. The strategy was reviewed by the Bank
mission and found satisfactory.
Participation Condition
8.     NBP will be made eligible to paLticipate in IIC III project subject
to:
8.1 Approval by NBP's Board of Directors of the draft strategy
statement and business plan for project finance;
8.2 Preparation and submission to the Bank of a complete and definitive
chart of  NBP's organization and staffing for :'-nject lending;
describing the function of each unit and its relation to the
others; and
8.3 Preparation and submission to the Bank for review of a three-year
program of staff training for industrial project lending activities.
Eligibility Criteria
9.     NBP will be required to maintain a minimum collection ratio of 80% on
Bank's subloans. Collection ratio is defined as follows: cash collection on
interest and principal divided by current dues on interest and principal.



- 88 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 7
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
Background
1.     NDFC was set up in 1973 as the bank for the public sec.or enterprises.
However, with the basic change in GOP's policy in 1977, NDFC's charter was
ammended in 1983 to enable iv to provide financial services to both public and
private sectors. In fifteen years since its inception, NDFC grew to be the
largest development bank in Pakistan with total assets of Rs 16.4 billion
(US$937 million) as of the end of 1987. It has 30 branches and expects to
open three more in 1988. NDFC's operations are also the most diversified and
include substantial working capital loans, underwriting, syndications, equity
investments, foreign exchange services, and consultancy. NDFC has not relied
on government funding but has been successful in raising resources from the
market through various deposit schemes, bond/debenture issues. In 1987, it
raised Yen 30 billion (about US$20 million) through a private placement which
was the first successful issue by a Pakistani financial institution in the
Tokyo market. Furthermore, NDFC promoted the establishment of other non-bank
financial institutions such as three leasing companies, a regional finance
company, a training and development institute, and a management/consultancy
group. It is currently in the process of forming a private investment company
with the participation of private and multilateral organizations.
Organization, Management, and Staffing
2.     NDFC's Board of Directors has six members who are appointed by GOP
including a Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO). At the end of 1987,
it had a total staff of 716 of which 356 or about 50% are professionals. In
the last five years, its professional staff turnover declined except in 1987
when it increased to 2.27 percent. This is still low but needs closer
monitoring particularly under the recent GOP ruling on compensation which
effectively reduced NDFC's overall compensation package. The current Chairman
and CEO was appointed in July 1986. Without a managing director (MD), there
are 14 people reporting directly to the Chairman. It is clear from the
results of NDFC's Corporate Review Meetings that the emphasis on its future
operations would be on quality and efficiency.   While NDFC's present staff
and organizational structure could meet this challenge, NDFC would need
full-time and focused top management attention to expanding operations and
administration under conditions of more intense competition. The CEO will
need to be significantly relieved of this task so that he could focus more on
policy and strategy formulation. In August 1988, GOP appointed Mr. Nasim Shah,



- 89 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 7
as the new Chairman and CEO. Mr. Shah was the chief executive officer of one
of the largest private sector company. Although NDFC has so far contained its
level of arrears, its priority should be to ensure adequate supervision staff
to handle its increasing number of clients facing technical and financial
difficulties (at the end of 1987, there were 50 clients or 18% of total).
NDFC is aware of these issues and as in the past, it should be able to take
the appropriate adjustments (para 3). Its detailed staffing and
organizational chart are available in the Project Files.
3.     Policies, Strategy, and Procedures.  In 1987, NDFC updated its policy
and strategy statements which includes its general policies on investments and
financial guidelines. These policies include NDFC's maximum exposure to
single enterprises, maximum size of eligible projects, debt/equity ratios of
enterprises, size and exposure of its equity investments, retention of 50% of
profits to reserves, protection against foreign exchange risks. However, NDFC
regularly adopts specific operational guidelines as required. For example, to
ensure portfolio diversification, it has defined maximum exposure as a percent
of total portfolio for certain subsectors such as 12.5% for textile, 29% for
sugar. To date, NDFC s exposure is highest in the cement sector (about 31X).
NDFC expects a large demand from the energy sector in which syndication will
be required to prevent over-exposure to the sector (currently 12X). Relending
under the Bank's Energy Project would probably be an "off-balance sheet"
account and would not affect NDFC's existing capital and portfolio
structures. Based on its experience and comparative advantages, it has also
developed specific financing norms. For example, for new projects, its
minimum subloan will be Rs 7.5 million, debt/equity of 60:40, minimum sponsor
contribution of 25% of project cost and an escrow deposit of 100% of equity
with NDFC. Furthermore, NDFC undergoes a continuous improvement in its
processing procedures. NDFC has adopted procurement procedures for local and
foreign currency purchases. These are satisfactory and involve different
procedures depending on the source, size, type (new or used). As a rule,
Limited International Bidding (LIB) is required for purchases over US$ 2.0
million and domestic and international shopping for contracts over Rs 10.0
million. It recently reactivated its procurement committee to facilitate
thorough review across divisions and faster decision. It has also tightened
its procedures on project implementation including advanced compliance of some
legal documentations prior to subloan approval. An operating manual has been
established with appropriate formats and guidelines on procedures which are
thoroughly explained to clients. NDFC is also computerizing its accounting
and management information system and some of its project financing
operations. NDFC is well managed and should continue to perform well.



- 90 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 7
4.     Financial Performance.  A summary statistics on NDFC's performance and
financial condition is contained in Table 1. NDFC experienced an average
growth rate of 30% p.a. until 1987. In view of tighter competition in both
its sourcing and lending operations, NDFC projects a lower average growth of
about 152 which is reasonable. Its recent experience suggests a much slower
growth in short-term deposits and working capital loans; much of its growth
would be in long-term lending and borrowings. Administrative expenses in
relation to total assets is projected to slightly increase starting in 1988.
NDFC should monitor these items closely to ensure effective cost control.
NDFC expects to maintain its spread at around 3.50% which is adequate and
shows a higher growth rate in net income and higher return on equity averaging
about 181 per year.  In 1987, NDFC's provisions for doubtful debts more than
doubled compared to 1986. This raised its accumulated provisions to Rs 330
million equivalent to 3.20X of gross loan and investment but increasing to
3.842 by 1990. These should be sufficient assuming cash collection ratio is
maintained at about 88% which would contain arrears to about the level of 11%
as in 1987 (para 6).
Table 1: NDFC - Summary Statistics (1986-90)
(Rs million)
ACTUAL                     PROJECTED
1986       1987        1988         1989       1990
Total Assets                12,849    16,363       18,580       22,004    25,791
Loan Portfolio               8,564      9,952      11,300      13,000    15,000
Equity/Deb. Portfolio          289        332         426          490       563
Provisions for losses      (222)      (330)       (383)        (482)     (597)
Total Deposits               6,748      8,754       9,500       10,640    11,916
(Short-Term)              3,790      5,534      6,035        6,759      7,570
(Long-term)               2,958      3,220      3,465        3,881      4,346
Long-term Debts              4,209      5,375       6,288       8,197    10,083
(LT guarantees)             266        302        336          387        446
Net Worth                      995      1,161       1,424        1,708     2,037
(Paid-in Capital)           132        132        132          132        132
GLoss Income                 1,266      1,721       2,085       2,407      2,832
Interest Expense               843      1,199       1,418       1,633      1,925
Provisions                      47        103          86           99       114
Net Income                     130        180         249          284       329
Key Ratios
Gross Income/Average
Total Assets (2)            11.32      11.78       11.83        11.86     11.85
Financial Charges/Ave.
Total Assets (2)             7.75       8.20        8.32        8.35       8.38
Gross Spread (1)                  3.57      3.58        3.51         3.51       3.47
Net Income/Average !quity        13.3      16.7        18.8         18.1       17.6
Debt/Equity Ratio (times)         7.47      7.66        7.08         7.29       7.30
Debt Service Cover (times)       6.04       5.75        5.73         5.21      4.46
Provisions/total Port.        2.51       3.21        3.26         3.57      3.84
Adm. Exp./Ave. Total Assets (2) 0.88        0.78        0.79         0.81      0.82



- 91 -
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 7
5.     Debt/Equity Ratio.  Due to higher gearing ratio, NDFC's return on
equity would improve to about 18% which is satisfactory.  However, its debt
service coverage ratio (DSCR) will be declining as more debt is incurred and
higher repayments become due on existing debts. Given its high level of
short-term deposits and need to maintain liquid reserves, NDFC needs to
maintain its overall DSCR (1987) of about six (6) times. This will also
require an increase in equity shares to keep its debt/equity ratio within
7:1. In 1987, NDFC would have had to raise about Rs 110 million in equity to
be within this gearing ratio. However, its projections show an additional
equity of about Rs 50 million should be adequate through 1990. The Bank fully
supports NDFC's request to GOP for higher equity. NDFC will be required to
maintain a debt/ equity ratio of at ieast 7:1 to remain eligible under the
proposed Project.
6.     Arrears/Collection Performance.  A brief summary of its performance in
the l&st four years is indicated in Table 2. NDFC has, so far, attained
reasonable collection ratios and has kept its arrears to a manageable level.
NDFC is targetting to maintain its arrears at about 11% of outstanding
portfolio and cash collection ratio of above 88% as in 1987. Based on NDFC's
statistics, there are some areas of concern which will require priority and
close attention to ensure realization of its targets. First, there are 27
companies accounting for about 10% of arrears which are operating profitably
but are in arrears. These could be "wilful" defaulters and should be followed
up intensively and if necessary, NDFC should utilize stronger collection
measures including suspending any working capital loans and "black-listing"
with other financial institutions under the credit clearing system. Second,
coMpanies in arrears include 25 under construction and 27 suffering losses and
financial difficulties which are potential "hard-core" problem accounts if
their problems are not corrected early. About 37% of total arrears are
overdue beyond 12 months which could already be classified as hard-core and
should be NDFC's priority. NDFC concentrates on large accounts in arrears
which is appropriate given its staffing constraints. However, a major and
long-term effort should be made to increase the staffing and training of its
Investment Management and Monitoring (IMM) Division specially in management
and restructuring services. While corrective measures are being implemented,
NDFC should invoke any guarantees on its loans to reduce its exposure
particularly in working capital loans; these arrears are still small but are
continuing to rise and in 1987 were six times the level of 1984. NDFC needs
to thoroughly reappraise these accounts to avoid the problem of perpetual
roll-over commonly associated with working capital loans. Third, adequate
feed-back of its experience should be made not only as a means to prevent
future mistakes but also as a basis in formulating financial policies and
sectoral approaches. Although NDFC should be able to maintain its level of
collections and adequate debt service coverage, its continuing access to the
Bank funds under the Project will be subject to achieving minimum cash
collection rates of 8S% on total amounts due and 80% on current dues for term
loans and minimum debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) of 1.25. L'
DSCR is defined as net profits after taxes plus non-cash charges, plus
interest/financial expenses plus cash collections of principal less
uncollected gross income divided by interest and principal repayments).



- 92 -
ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 7
Table 2: NDFC: Collection Performance and Arrears Position
(Rs Million)                          1984        1985        1986         1987
a) Arrears, Beginning                  377        374         353          529
b) Current dues                     2,052       4,290       6,681        8,697
c) Total Amounts Due (a+b)          2,429       4,663       7,034        9,226
d) Cash Collections                  1,901      3,922       6,459        8,124
e) Arrears before Rescheduling         527         741        575        1,101
f) Amounts Rescheduled                 154        388          46          230
g) Arrears, Ending                     374        352         529          871
-(working capital)               27          58         104          155
-(term loans)                   347         295         720          716
Ratios (%)
Cash Collection Kate (d/c)              78.3        84.1       91.8          88.1
Cash Collection Rate on Term Loans:
-on total amounts due            63.6        56.6        73.9         64.7
-on current dues                 72.1        70.6        88.6         87.3
Arrears to Portfolio:
-total                            7.0         5.1         6.0          8.4
-working Capital                  1.5         3.4         4.4          5.2
-term loans                      10.1         5.6        11.1          9.8
Outstanding Portfolio               5,306       6,956       8,868       10,307
-(working capital)            1,856       1,692       2,375        2,987
-(long-term loans)            3,450       5,264       6,492        7,320
Total Number of Companies              193         220         263          273
Companies in Arrears                    54          64          79          102
(Operating profitably)          (14)        (28)        (34)         (27)
(under construction)            (12)        ( 4)        (11)         (25)
(loss/financial problems)       (28)        (32)        (34)         (50)
(Amounts outs. and rescheduled include both principal and interest).
7.     Bank IIC Projects.  NDFC accounted for US$ 44.9 million equivalent or
about l1% of the total subloan approvals under the first and second IIC
projects. However, these account for only 4% of NDFC's total approvals during
the 1984-87 period. The status and summary breakdown of these approvals are
shown in Table 3. The average subloan for 17 project.s was about US$ 2.5
million which is about the size of projects on which NDFC has a comparative
advantage. Due mainly to loss of interest on the part of the sponsors, three
subloans are expected to be cancelled which would bring net approvals to US$
41.8 million for 14 projects or a higher average of US$ 3.0 million. The
textile sector accounted for about 252 of total approvals although these wculd
not exceed overall exposure target for textiles. However, the approvals for
the cement sector of US$ 10.96 million (26X) should be of concern to NDFC not



- 93 -
ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 7
only because these would increase its already high exposure to the sector
(31%) but, more importantly, because the sector has the highest level of
arrears representing 28% of total arrears. This sector would need special and
immediate attention since the amounts are large; however, corrective measures
by NDFC/client if taken soon, should have subtantial impact since the projects
appear to be at an early stage of implementation (most of the arrears are
interest dues) and are not yet hard-core problem projects.
Table 3: NDFC: Status of Subloan Approvals under IIC I and II
(June 30, 1988)
Under           Awaiting
Amount    Completed   Implementation   Disbursement
Sector                  (US$ million)                       (  N u m b e r  )
Paper/Products                10.95         1               -              1
Textiles                      10.86         -               3              1
Cement                         8.87         1               -              1
Eng'r/Steel                    7.80         1               2              1
Dairy/Poultry                  4.34         -               1              2
Brick/Soap                     2.10         -               1              1
Total              44.92         3               I              Z
Source: NDFC
8.     Prospects/Project Pipeline.  In Pakistan, NDFC is the most experienced
in terms of merchant banking operations and has successfully built-up its
deposit mobilization capabilities and organization. It has shown flexibility
to adapt to changing situations and is active in doing subsector research for
its project promotion and corporate/financial planning. NDFC can now provide
complete financial packages to industrial enterprises. NDFC plans to expand
on its non-fund operations and foreign exchange/export business. Its major
objective is to preserve/improve the quality of its operations in view of the
tighter competition in the system and projects a slower but adequate and
diversified growth in business which is appropriate. In summary, local
currency loans are expected to decrease from 20% of total approvals in 1987
(actual) to less than 10% by 1990 while foreign currency loans would increase
to 10% from 7% in 1987. Working capital loan would still account for the bulk
of its gross approvals but would be declining on an incremental basis. For
the period 1988-1990, NDFC projects foreign currency loan approvals of US$220
million. NDFC's pipeline is large enough to meet these projections which, as
of June 30, 1988 amounted to $ 374 million. This pipeline does not reflect
fully the impact of potential projects in the energy sector which was recently
opened to the private sector and considered for financing under another Bank
project. Overall, NDFC is a mature, well-managed financial institution; it
should continue to show satisfactory financial performance and be able to meet
the eligibility criteria and be an active PFI under 'he proposed Project.



- 94 -
ANNEX 10
Page 7 of 7
9.       Participation Condition.  The only participation condition for NDFC
under the proposed Project is the formal approval by its Board of Directors of
its updated Policy Statement.
10.      Eligibility Criteria.  NDFC's continuing access to the Bank Loans
will be subject to the following criteria.
(i) Maintenance of a minimum debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) of 1.25;
(ii) Maintenance of a minimum overall collection rate of 85%;
(iii) Maintenance of a maximum debt/equity ratio of 7:1



- 95 -
ANNEX 11
Page I of 18
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Background
1.     IDBP was established in 1961 to provide term finance to small- and
medium-scale enterprises. During the Sixties IDBP was considered a well
managed institution and was the major source of foreign exchange term finance
for small- and medium-size units particularly in the textile sector. However,
the Seventies proved to be an exceptionally difficult period for IDBP.
Separation of East Pakistan in 1971, devaluation of the rupee in 1972 by 132%
and the nationalisation of some major private industries (chemical and heavy
engineering) led to a decline in private industrial investment and a general
disruption of the economy. The textile industry, which accounted for more
than 50% of IDBP's loan portfolio, was particularly adversely affected by
reduced exports due to .nternational recession in demand. Many IDBP borrowers
defaulted on their loans resulting in IDBP facing serious financial problems.
2.     Thus by 1980, IDBP was faced with serious repayment arrears exacerbated
by internal administrative problems including loss of some of its experienced
staff to the Middle Eastern countries. To address these problems GOP
introduced a number of measures which included establishment of the Committee
for Sick Industrial Units, regular meecings chaired by the Finance Secretary
to review collection performance of arrears and introduction of the Foreign
Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme. To assist in the recovery process, the Bank
Group and Asian Development Bank (ADB) worked closely with GOP to rehabilitate
IDBP and FICIC. Because of those concerted efforts, IDBP has been able to
improve collections particularly of new loans, improve its profitability and
liquidity position, increase its volume of business, and strengthen its
financial condition. IDBP is also taking additional measures to enable it to
function better in a more competitive financial environment.  However, the
implementation of the diversification of operations initiated under the Second
IIC project has been slow. IDBP continues to face financial problems
resulting from loans made prior to 1981 as GOP's foreign exchange risk
coverage scheme applied only to loans made after 1981. The problem is
compounded by deficiencies in the Pakistan legal system for recovery of
defaulting loans. Recently, GOP has extended the Foreign Exchange Risk
Coverage Scheme to loans made prior to 1981 which should help in recovering



- 96 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 18
old arrears of repayment.  '.  IDBP has however, taken remedial steps to
safeguard against the impact of sizeable arrears by making provisions in its
accounts.
Organization and Staffing
3.     IDBP's, operations are governed by the IDBP Act of 1961 as amended from
time to time. Until the nationalization of 1974, IDIP had minority private
sector shareholdings. As of June 30, 1988, IDBP's share capital was Rs. 157
million with GOP share being 57%, SBP 36% and remainder being held by the four
provincial governments and government-owned institutions. IDBP is guided by
an eight-member Board of Directors, including the Managing Director (MD) of
IDBP who is also Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. The MD
and other directors who are senior government officials (one represents
Bankers Equity Ltd.) are appointed by GOP. The operations of IDBP are
presently grouped into two functional divisions Operations, and End-Use. The
End-Use functions (along with Central Accounts Department) are under a
Controller (Audit and Planning). The two divisional heads and Chief of
Establishment Department report to the Managing Director. Commercial banking
functions are under the Controller (Audit and Planning) who is assisted by
several consultants financed under the IIC Project. IDBP has eleven branches
which are controlled by five regional offices located in the four provincial
capitals and Rawalpindi. The regional managers report directly to the MD.
IDBP Board has approved setting up of a sixth regional office at Sukkur. IDBP
employs a staff of 840 which include 193 professionals. Over the past few
years IDBP has also provided extensive training to its staff within and
outside the country through the technical assistance funds under the first and
second IIC projects.
Operating Policies and Procedures
4.     IDBP provides term loans to SMI in the private sector.  IDBP's
investment and lending policies and financial guidelines are set out ir. its
Policy Statement z/ which lays down guidelines for IDBP's operational and
financial performance. IDBP's strategy spells out its operational strategy
for each year '. IDBP's procurement procedures are satisfactory and
acceptable to the Bank. Over 75% of the loan applications received by
Presently GOP instructions apply only to loans directly extended by
foreign lending agencies to DFIs. DFIs have requested GOP to include
in the scheme the loans "re-lent" prior to 1981 through GOP.
The documents are available in the project files.



- 97 -
ANN'EX 1i
Page 3 of 18
IDBP are handled at the regional office level. Project appraisal, both at
regional offices and head office, is conducted on team concept basis where an
engineer, a marketing analyst and a financial analyst are included in the
team. For speedier processing and analysis of loan applications IDBP has
recently installed personal computers in its Project Evaluation Department at
head office. IDBP's regional offices are also being provided personal
computers firanced under the technical assistance component of the First IIC
project. Supervision of projects after approval and opening of L/C including
recoveries are regional office functions, while the head office closely
monitors the progress.
Past Bank Assistance
5.     The World Bank group made its first credit to IDBP in February 1970
(Credit 177-PAK). This credit became effective in June 1970, but IDA
discontinued authorizinig withdrawals subsequent to the separation of Eapt
Pakistan. IDBP's records at its head office which was then located in
Bangladesh were also lost and, therefore, it took some time to reconstruct the
records and to resunw -.rmal operatioiis. In April 1974, utilization of the
credit 177-PAK was resumed with the conversion of the unallocated balance oF
US$ 10.8 million into a fund managed by IDBP on behalf of GOP. During the
1970s IDBP's efforts in collecting arrears have not been successful for two
reasons. First as a result of the worsening political uncertainties in
Pakistan (para. 1), and the resultant serious disturbances in 1977, the
production, profitability, and cash flow position of many clients was
affected. Second sharp exchange rate fluctuations of the rupee, which was
then tied solely to the US dollar, increased significantly the debt service
burden of many IDBP clients, and created a feeling that it was inappropriate
for term-lending institutions to demand repayments, as spelt out in subloan
agreements, at the higher exchange rates. The situation was later clarified
by GOP's announcement in support of IDBP's position in that all clients must
honor their contractual obligations. Under the Second I' IDA Credit of 1981
(Cr. 1186-PAK for US$ 30 million) specific measures for collection of
repayment arrears were agreed and implemented (para. 2). The actions taker
improved IDBP's collections performance.
6.     From 1983 onwards, IDBP has been included as a participating financial
*nstitution (PFI) under the First and Second IIC projects and utilised US$
51.2 million for 20 subprojects. Textile financing accounted for 62% of the
amount lent, followed by food industries (20%). IDBP's exposure in the
textile sector needs to be watched carefully. IDBP has also two credit lines
(IDA Credits 1113-PAK and 1499-PAK) of US$ 30 million and US$ 50 million
A credit line of US$5 million out of the Third Highways Project (Cr.
974-PAK) approved in 1980, was also provided to IDBP to finance
purchase of construction equipment by highway contractors.



- 98 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 18
respectively for development of small-scale industries through NCBs. As the
"apex" IDBP acted as a monitoring and refinance agency in respect of these two
credit lines. A third credit of US$ 54 million (IBRD Credit No. 2839-PAK) has
recently been made available for the same purpose in which Pakistan Banking
Council (PBC) is to act as the monitoring and refinancing agency while IDBP
would be a participating institution in addition to NCBs.1' ADB has also
negotiated a credit of US$ 48 million for development of small-scale
industries through IDBP as the "apex" agency.-' Additionally, ADB has
provided six credit lines (including two umbrella type loans) totalling US$138
million and foreign governments have extended foreign currency credit lines to
IDBP amounting to Rs 6.0 billion.
Past Performance
7.     IDBP's term loan approvals increased from Rs. 1.1 billion in FY84 to
Rs. 2.7 billion in FY88, of which foreign currency loans account for 64X.
Working capital loans increased sharply from Rs. 89 million to Rs.1.4 billion
during the same period.  Most of these loans were gt'aranteed by the commercial
banks which did not have sufficient credit ceilings.-2  Direct working
capital loans by IDBP have thus far been limited. Total term loans disbursed
amounted to Rs. 1.0 billion in FY88, about 7% above FY87 level.  Table 1 below
prcvides a summary of performance for the FY84-88 period.
Table 1: IDBP - Past Operations (FY84-88)
Approvals                    FY84       FY85      FY86       FY87       FY88
(Rs million)
F.C.  term loans               590        504       672      1,497      1,728
L.C. term loans                546        647       675        800        965
Total                        1,136      1,151     1,347      2,297      2,697
Disbursements                  423        540       554        916        979
Working Capital Loans           89        363       520        842      1,394
8.     During FY 84-88, IDBP's lending operations covered a wide range of
industrial subsectors. The major subsectors assisted by IDBP during the
period were: textiles (38%); food processing (15%); engineering (10%); and
chemicals (10X). The overall dominance of the textile sector, however, has
been gradually declining from its pre 1981 position (more than 50% of total
approvals) as a result of deliberate policy towards less traditional
industries such as chemicals, engineering and food processing. How( er, the
bulk of IDBP's recent approvals have gone to the textile sector due to the
Due to the recent changes in the role of PBC, IDBP is again being
considered to perform the role of the "apex" agency for the Third SSI
project.
2/     Credit ceilings are saleable among banks.



- 99 -
ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 18
strong demand from the textile sector. IDBP is aware of this overexposure
problem and has agreed to incorporate appropriate exposure limits in its
strategy statement.
Portfolio Quality and Arrears
9.     Although IDBP's portfolio management has improved since 1982 when
specific targets were set under the First and Second IIC projects to intensify
recovery efforts. IDBP has substantially met these targets. Actual
performance for FY87 and FY88 is given in Table 2 below:
Table 2: Collection Targets under IIC I & II for FY87-88
and Actual Performance
FY  1987               FY  1988
Target   Actual        Target   Actual
Cash Collection (Rs million)   600        590           750       704
Total Collection X                45       55            55        52
Min. Collection Ratio
(Current dues)                    75       75            75        81
Portfolio infection ratio %       35       37            25        36
10.    During FY88, IDBP recovered Rs. 704 million compared with the target of
Rs 750 million.  Additionally, Rs. 357 million (net of contingency provision)
were rescheduled during the same year.   The arrears have, however, remained
constant in value terms, at about Rs. 0.9 billion at end of FY87 and FYe8.
(For detailed analysis of amounts due and recoveries see Attachment 2). The
lack of progress in reducing the arrears is mainly due to the legal problems
and the depreciation of the rupee (para. 2). The Collections Review meetings,
which have not been held for the last 3 years, have been re-instituted so as
to assist IDBP (and PICIC) in their recovery efforts. The latest meeting was
held in July 1988.
Resource Mobilization
11.    Given the present sources of financing, IDBP acts mainly as a conduit
for on-lending of foreign currency loans obtained from the multilateral and
bilateral sources and does not have significant local resources of its own for
on-lending to make up full package for the clients. IDBP operations typically
consist of back-to-back asset and liability creation with loan assets created
on the basis of funding by international lending institutions, SBP and also
through special arrangements with NCBs. It has, therefore, very little
resources for other funding operations. Investor requirements are varied and
IDBP lacks the instruments to reach market segments which it can serve better
than other institutions. As a scheduled bank, IDBP can increase its deposit
taking activities with concentration on urban areas and larger accounts,



- 100 -
ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 18
considering its narrower branch system. It can take advantage of new
opportunities in the morey and capital markets. In 1985, IDBP decided to
diversify operations in order to cope with increasing competition from other
DFIs and commercial banks offering full range of banking services backed by
extensive local currency resources, and started advancing working capital
loans but progress has been slow in general mainly due to a lack of concerted
efforts by IDBP's management. Participation of IDBP under the proposed
Project will depend on the progress made by IDBP in implementing agreed
business diversification program (paras. 14-15).
Financial Performance
12.    Attachment I provides historical financial statements of IDBP.  IDBP's
financial condition and performance has improved. The total assets tripled
from Rs 2.7 billion in FY83 to about Rs. 8.5 billion in FY88. Over the same
period, the long term portfolio has increased from Rs. 2.7 billion to Rs. 7.9
billion and the working capital loan portfolio from nil to Rs. 1.1 billion.
Net income rose from Rs 34 million in FY83 to Rs. 62 million in FY88. IDBP's
key financial ratios have remained within the limits laid down under the
Second IIC project. In FY88, the debt/equity ratio stood at 4.6:1, which was
within the limit of 7:1, debt service coverage ratio at 1.20 (limit not below
1.2), return on equity at 13% (limit not belcw 12%). The ratio of
administrative expenses to average total assets was 0.97% against the limit of
1.2%. IDBP's total assets increased from Rs 7.2 billion in FY87 to Rs 8.5
billion in FY88. The increase in assets was financed mainly by borrowings
(about one half being in foreign exchange). In FY88, net income rose by 9%.
Return on net worth was 12.8% in FY88. Overall, IDBP's liquidity position
remains satisfactory.
13.    During FY84-88 period, IDBP's loan approvals and disbursement increased
at a compounded rate of 24% p.a. IDBP expects a more modest growth rate of
15% p.a. over the FY89-91 period. This is reasonable and achievable given a
strong project pipeline.
Business Diversification
14.    Even when assessed on a post 1981 basis, IDBP may not be able to
survive as a single product institution. Thus, there is an urgent need for it
to diversify its product mix and engage in financial operations which are more
profitable, utilising the framework of its present Charter as a scheduled
bank. There are opportunities for IDBP also in merchant banking as the
financial sector continues to diversify and capital and money markets continue
to develop. IDBP must augment its sources of income from non-fund business
and more profitable funding operations. A time-bound action plan for product
diversification is shown in the Attachment 3 under which IDBP intends to
undertake business activities in the area of export-import finance, deposit
mobilization, and leasing and increased short term lending. In the areas of



- 101 -
ANNEX I1
Page 7 of 18
leasing, the Central Board of Revenue has confirmed that depreciation
allowance for income tax purposes would be available to IDBP as to leasing
companies. Ability to carry out these activities will depend very much on
management's commitment. In order for IDBP to implement the plan it will need
to recruit key staff externally including senior level, and this should be
done as a matter of urgency. It also needs to accelerate its training program
for the staff in this area. However, developing people from within alone will
be slow and not enough. IDBP has already recruited a commercial banking
expert as a consultant for two years (financed by he Bank under IIC I) to
help organise its ccmmercial banking activities al.u recruit staff. The
success of IDBP in this area will depend very much on how effectively it
utilizes the consultant. IDBP's operational targets for commercial/merchant
banking operations are shown in Table 3 below:
Table 3: Business Diversification Targets
(Rs million)
Business Activity                                          FY89   FY90    FY91
Deposits                                                      750   1,200   1,700
Short term advances                                        1,600   2,200   2,700
Import L/Cs                                                  175      450      650
Export L/Cs during the year (negotiations of bills)          140      375      550
Export financing                                               70     180      270
Other business (bills/remittances etc.)                       140     350      550
Underwriting of public issues                                  35      50       50
Guarantees                                                     35      50       50
Leasing operations                                            50      150      250
Source: IDBP
15.    IDBP is well placed to implement the above diversification plan as it
is already a scheduled bank, but IDBP's management would thus need to make
special efforts to transform IDBP into a universal bank.  During negotiations
an agreement was reached with IDBP on a specific timetable to implement the
business diversification program. Failure of IDBP to implement the program
will disqualify IDBP from access to Bank funds under the proposed Third IIC
project.
Projected Financial Conditions and Results:
16.    IDBP's projected financial statements for FY88-91 are provided in the
Attachment 4. During the period, IDBP's assets are projected to increase from
Rs. 8.4 billion in FY88 to Rs. 14.7 billion in FY91, or an annual increase of
18.8% p.a. The composition of the assets is projected to change structurally
with domestic currency loans increasing to about two third of the loan
portfolio by the end of FY91. Working capital loans are projected to double
from Rs. 1.1 billion in FY88 to Rs. 2.7 billion. The provisions for losses



- 102 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 8 of 18
are projected to increase to Rs. 1.2 billion, or about 9% of the outstanding
portfolio. This should be adequate to cover possible losses under the
existing provisioning rules. The increase in assets would be financed mainly
by the inicrease in foreign and domestic borrowings. However, IDBP would be in
compliance with the debt/equity ratio requirement of 7:1 unless it was to make
substantial additional provisions which may be required under the rules
proposed under the proposed FSAL. In that, case there will be a need for
additional equity from GOP. IDBP's projected income statement shows that net
income will increase from Rs. 62 million in FY88 to Rs. 149 million in FY91.
Return on equity is projected to average 15% which is satisfactory. The
administrative expenses are projected to remain below 1% of average total
assets.  This is satisfactory.  Although IDBP's financial condition and
results are projected to continue to be satisfactory, its liquidity position
will need to be monitored carefully and it will depend very much on IDBP's
success in managing its portfolio and reducing the level of non-performing
assets (para. 17). Debt Service Coverage Ratio over the period is projected
to remain above 1.25, which is adequate. IDBP's financial performance and
portfolio management will continue to be monitored carefully during the
supervision and future collection review meetings which are expected to be
held twice a year.
17.    Although IDBP has made notable improvements in its operations, LDBP's
financial position needs to be strengthened. There is an urgent need to
reduce high proportion of non-performing assets and improve the collection
ratios.  The major problem in recoveries of arrears is the cumbersome le,al.
system.  However, this is a problem common to all DFIs and NCBs. '  IDBi
needs to make special efforts to recover old dues (over two years) which are
about 802 of total arrears. As of June 30, 1988, 36% of the portfolio was
affected by arrears. This needs to be reduced to no more than 252. For
recoveries of loans made after 1981, IDBP also needs to improve upon the
current collection ratio of 74% and raise it to at least 80% by 1990 to avoid
building up of arrears against current loans (attachment 3). Under the
proposed FSAL GOP is considering stringent guidelines for non-performing loans
and accrual of interest not received in cash. This is likely to require
higher provisions for non-performing assets and thus possibly a need for fresh
equity injection. IDBP has agreed to carry out a portfolio audit to determine
the extent of financial restructuring needed under the proposed accounting
rules and would make adequate provisions in consultation with its external
auditors.
IX     The proposed FSAL would address the systemic problem affecting recovery
problems.



- 103 -
ANNEX 11
Page 9 of 18
Participation Conditions
18.    The participation conditions for IDBP are as follows:
(a) Approval by IDBP's Board of Directors of the attached strategy,
business plan and the implementation schedule.
(b) Approval by IDBP's Board of Directors of a staffing and training
program to enable implementation of the business plan by IDBP's
management.
(c) Approval by IDBP's Board of Directors of a revised strategy
statement.
(d) Long-term Debt/Equity Ratio of 7:1.
(e) An action p!>n to handle the non-performing assets. The plan to be
submitted to lie Bank by September 30, 1988.
Eligibility Criteria
19.    IDBP's access to Bank funds would be subject to:
(a) Implementation of the agreed business plan (attachment 3).
(b) Maintenance of Debt Service Coverage Ratio of 1.25.
(c) Maintenance of Long-term Debt: Equity Ratio of 7:1.
Ed) Collection ratio of 75% in FY89 and 80% in FY90.
(e) Imple..ientation of the plan frr handling non-performing assets in
accordance with the proposed FSAL project.



- 104 -
ANNEX 11
Page 10 of 18
Attachment 1
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
Industrial Develot;:ient Bank of Pakistan (IDBP)
Income Statements (FY 1984 - FY 1988)
(Rs million)
INCOME                                     FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
Interest income                            292     377      497      643      783
Other income                                39       73       78      87       91
Total income                           3l1      450      515      7        87A
EXPENSES
Interest on borrowings                     190      267     318      463      501
Administrative expenses                     49       56       63       67       76
Other expenses including
Provisions for doubtful debts            41      74      125      169      177
Total expenses                                 3D1                         7564
PROFIT BEFORE TAX                           50       53       69       91     120
Less:  Provision for tax                    10        5        3       34       58
Net income                                  40       48 _6A           51      _
FINANCIAL RATIOS
(% average total assets)
Total income                                11.0    11.5    11.3    11.4    11.2
Financial expenses                           6.3      6.9      6.4      6.3      6.4
Spread                                       4.7      4.6      4.9      5.1      4.8
Administrative expenses                      1.6      1.4      1.2      1.1      1.0
Net Income                                   1.3      1.2      1.3      0.9      0.8
Net profit/average total net worth          16.2    16.1    17.7    13.1    12.7
Source: IDBP



- 105 -
ANNEX 11
Page 11 of 18
Attachment 1
Page 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (IDBP)
Balance Sheets (FY 1984 - FY 1988)
(Rs million)
ASSETS                                     FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
Liquid assets                              109      103     132      263      167
Investments                                108     374      441      645      702
Loan portfolio                          3,137   4,012   5,040   6,535   7,868
Less:  provisions                   (151)   (208)   (316)   (479)   (637)
Loan portfolio (net)                    2,986   3,804   4,724   6,056   7,231
Other assets                               162      168     228      276      387
Total assets                             .3,65   4,44    5,525   7,240   8
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
Current liabilities                        164      175     232      412      416
Deposits                                   215      558     493      945   1,336
Borrowings
Foreign currency                           758      462     476      426      326
Foreign currency loans
repayable in rupees                     81      573      774   1,175   1,642
State Bank - industrial loans              821   1,033   1,323   1,502   1,688
State Bank - cash credits                  499      469     640      564      640
Federal Government loans                   310      406     525      689      689
Others                                     206      392      604   1,020   1,188
2,675   3,335   4,342   5,376   6,173
Other liabilities                           47       47       47       47      47
Paid-in capital                            100      157      157     157      157
Reserves                                   164      177      254      303     358
Total net worth                         264      334     411      460      515
Total liabilities and net worth             6    4.449   5,2    7,240   8
Debt/Equity Ratio                            4.2      4.1      4.1      4.1      4.6
Source: IDBP



- 106 -
ANNEX ll
Page 12 of 18
Attachment 2
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISITN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (IOOP)
Analysis of Amounts Due and Recoveries (FY 1984 - FY 1988)
(Rs million)
FY84    FY8'    F8        £Y7Z   FY88
A.   Opening Balance including
contingency provision              993      869      914   1,318   1,316
Less:
i)    Contingency Provision          176      135      166      365     410
ti)   Amount rephased net of
impact of exchange
fluctuation                 202      125      (30)    189       1i
tii)  Total amount deducted          378      260      136      554 
Opening balance net of contin-
gency and amount rephased          615      609      778      764      748
B.   Amount Fallen Due:
i)    Against Past Dues               85      105      127      146      127
ii)   Against Current Dues           22j      430      52       57i     721
iii)  Total Fallen Due               480      535      656      721      848
C.   Less:  Amount under litigation
not recoverable temporarily        157      205      313      426      258
0.   Total Dues for Collection
(A+B-C)                            938      939   1.121   1,059   1.337
E.   Cash Collection:
i)    Arrears                         89       97       99      150      107
ii)   Current Dues                   2        2        3        429      584
iii)  Total:                         361      396      481      579     691
F.   Closing Balance (D-E+C)               734      748     953      906      905
RATIOS  1:
i)   Cash Collection Current                56       56      S8       60       69
to Total Fallen Due
(E (1i) as X to B)
ii)  Cash Collection Arrears                 9       11       11       11      11
to Opening Balance
(E (i) as % to A)
iii) Cash Collection as X to                38       42      43       55       52
Total Dues (E as X to 0)
iv)  Total Collection and Rescheduling  49           49      41       62       57
as X to Total Dues (E+A(ii) as X
D+A(ii).
v)   Cash Collection Current                69       69       72       75       81
as X to amount fallen due
current (E (ii) as % to B (ii)



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC) PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (IDBP)
Action Plan for Diversification of Services and Recoveries
Activit                      Action/Scxo                        Progress Achieved to Date              Constrat.s                  Further Action. Time-Table
A. COHMERCIAL BANKING
A 1 Deposit Mobilization   Augment Local Currency               1. Although modest bt.iinning   1. Lack of incentives for          1. Commercial banking
Targets                  resources by:                      had been made earlier,            clients due to non-availa-          consultants appointed
1.  Deposits "               1. Making it mandatory on          branches have now been            bility of full range of             on October 1988.
FY89 Rs 0.75 billion         borrowers to                       instructed to mount a special  services normally available
FY93 Rs 1.2 billion          deposit their equity               campaign seeking dpoosits.        from commercial banks.
FY91 Rs 1.7 billion          contribution.                      Targets have been fixed.
2.  S/T Advances             2. Seek current a/c deposits    2. Commercial banking cell           2. Statutory reserve require- 1. Recruit staff by Dec./88.
FY89 Rs 1.6 billion          from clients.                      opened at HO and consultants   ment by SBP.                        2. Marketing plan by Dec./88.
FY90 Rs 2.2 billion                                             appointed.                                                         3. Open new branches Karachi.
FY91 Rs 2.7 billion          3. Issue certificates of                                                                                 Lahore & Islam. by Mar. 1989.
deposits/bonds.                                                                                      4. Train staff by Mar. 1989.
A-2 Exoort & Import                                             1. Have requested SBP for a    1. Lack of experience.              1. Determine staffing and train-  °
Business                                                    credit line of Rs 50 million   2. Staffing is inadequate.             ing needs by Nov./88.
Targets                                                     for export finance.
2. Start training staff by
1. Export Finance            1. Extend SBP's facility to                                                                              Dec./88.
existing and new clients.
FY89 Rs  70 million                                                                                                                3. Recruit staff by Nov./88 and
FY90 Rs 180 million                                                                                                                   start implementation by
FY91 Rs 270 million          2. Extend import L/C facility                                                                            Jan./1989
to new clients.
2. Export L/C
FY89 Rs 140 million                                             2. Beginning of import L/C has
FY90 Rs 374 million                                             already been made but the
FY91 Rs 550 million                                             volume has remained mostly
stagnant.
B. MERLHANT BANKING ACTIVITIES
B-1 Lease Financing          Extend the Facility to exist-   1. Have determined that              1. Expertise and trained         1. Engage consultants by Dec.
Targets                  ing and new clients.               permission is not required to        staff not available.             1988.
start lease financing.                                                                              e
FY89 Rs  50 million                                                                                                                                               > X
FY90 As 150 million                                             2. CBR's clearance regarding                                       2. Staff by Dec./1988.
FY91 Rs 250 million                                                depreciation allowance                                                                         D 
has been received.                                                                         m      n ->
''  Exclude call money from banks.



- 2-
Activity                      Action/ScoDe                         Proaress Achieved to Date           Constraints                 Further Action. Time-lable
B-2 Underwritina of public  Underwriting of public issues    Facility introduced and              1. Lack of know-how.             1. Determine staffing require-
issues and canital market   of shares and commercial paper.  services provided to                 2. Experienced staff not            ments by Nov./88.
intermediation.               Equity investment. Advisory          client in 1988.                   available.                    2. Recruit staff by Dec./88.
services to be introduced.                                                                          3. Train staff by Mar./89.
Target
Rs SO million annually.
C.fINANCIAL PLANNING AND CONTROL
C 1 Financial Management    -Introduce/formalise function    Limited extent only.                 1. Staff ng inadequate.          1. Appoint consultant to
and centralise financial           No explicit financial          2. Lack of clear policy.            establish treasury function.
planning.                          control and accountability   3. Lack of policy.                 2. Appoint a treasurer who will
-Introduce the concept of           at the Division's level.                                           be responsible for this new
profit centres.                                                                                       task under the Managing Di-
rector.
3. Appoint key staff and train
by Dec./88.
0. Financial Targets
0-1 Collection                Improve collections of loan                                                                          FY88: 75% of current dues.
repayments.                                                                                         FY89: 75% of current dues.
FY90: 80% of current dues.
D-2 Debt Service Coverage   To be able to service its                                                                              Maintenance of minimum OSCR
Ratio.                    debts.                                                                                               of 1.25%.                            o
0-3 Debt Equity Ratio.                                                                                                             Minimum D/E Ratio of 7:1.
0-4 Return on Eqjity.         Maintenance of value of its                                                                          To earn a minimum of 12%
capital.                                                                                            return on equity.
November 10. 1988
> -
xm
fr -
rD 3 t=
fD O >C
w 0 e



- 109 -
ANNEX 11
Page 15 of 18
Attachment 4
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (IDBP)
Proiected Income Statements from FY 1988
(Rs million)
INCOME                                       FY 88       FY 89      FY 90      _ E91
Interest/Mark-up on L-T loans                  652          744       887      1,070
Other income                                     51          56         62         68
Interest/Mark-up on investment                   40          77        86U         93
Sub-total                           743         877     1,035      1,230
Commercial Banking
Interest/Mark-up on S-T loans                   131         203       285        368
Other income                                      0           8         21         30
Sub-total                           131         211        306       398
Leasina
Return on leased out assets                     Q            14                   124
Total                               874       1.102     1.396      1.752
EXPENDITURE
Interest on foreign currency/borrowing          168         194       248        337
Other Financial Expenses                        333         469        582        724
Administrative Expenses                          76          87        101        116
Depreciation on Lease Assets                      0          10         40         90
Provision for doubtful debts                    177         181        193        197
Total                               754         940     1.163      1.463
Profit before Tax                               120         162        233        289
Taxation                                         57          62         91        140
Profit after Tax                                 63         100        143        149
RATIOS (X
Gross income/Average total assets               11.1        11.9       12.5       13.0
Admn. expenses/average total assets              0.97        0.95       0.90       0.86
Financial expenses/average total assets          6.4         7.2        7.4        7.9
Income from loan average Loan portfolio         10.5        10.2       10.3       10.4
Financial expenses/average debts                 7.2         8.0        8.2        8.7
Net Profit/average equity                       12.8        17.7       21.0       18.2
Profit before tax/average equity                24.6        28.7       34.5       35.4
Source: IOBP



- 110 -
ANNEX 11
Page 16 of 18
Attachment 4
Page 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC IIC) PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (IDBP)
Proiected Balance Sl,eets (FY 1989-91)
(Rs million)
ASSETS                                        FY 88        FY 89       FY 90      FY 91
ACTUAL        - - - -PROJECTED
Cash and bank balance                          167         175         182         192
Accrued income and other assets               349          399         449         499
Sub-total                    516         574         631         691
Investments                                   702                      685         973
Local currency loans                        4,014       4,521        5,175       5,724
Working capital loans                       1,106        1,600       2,200       2,700
Foreign currency loans and Guarantees   2,701           3,275       4,200        5,436
Leased ott assets                               -           40         150         310
7,821       9,436      11,725      14,171
Ls  Provision for doubtful debts             t637)        (817)     (1.010)     (1.207)
Sub-total                 7.184        8618       10.715      12.963
Fixed assets                                    18         21           24          27
Total assets                               ,n n49                   1      7
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
Deposits                                      386          750       1,200       1.700
Deposits from banks at call                   950          950         950         950
Provision for income tax                       (19)        (19)        (19)        (19)
Accounts payable and accounts                 416          458         530         632
Sub-total                  1.733       2.139       2.661       3.263
Rupee borrowings                            3,820       4,558        5,337       S,876
Reschedule borrowings                         488         488          488         488
Foreign currency borrowings and
guarantees                               1.865       2.256       3.026       4.243
Sub-total                 6.173        7.302       8.850      10.50
Share capital                                  157         157         157         1S7
Reserves                                       349         442         577         719
Special development assistant fund               9           9           9          _
Sub-total                    515         608         744         885
Total Liabilities and Net worth             8.421      10.049       12.255      14.654
Debt/Equity ratio                                4.6         5.2         5.7         6.3
Source: IDBP



- 111 -
ANNEX 11
Page 17 of 18
Attachment 4
Page 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC QF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN CIOSPI
Protected Cash Flows (FY 1989-91)
(Rs million)
SOURCES                                                   FY 89      FY 90      FY 91
Profit before Tax                                         162        233         289
A{4 non cash transaction
- Depreciation on bank assets                            3          4          4
- Depreciation on leased assets                         10         40         90
- Provision for doubtful debts                         181        193        197
Jess: Income Credited to P&L account
but not received                              (132)      (147)       (176)
Add: Expenditure debited to P&L account
but not paid                                    SO         80         110
Collections of advances (principal)                       408        492         652
Income tax paid                                           (62)       (91)      (140)
Interest Expenses                                         662        830      1.060
AVAILABLE FOR DEBT SERVICING                            1,281      1,634      2.086
Draw down on borrowings:
- Local Currency                                       650        811        759
- Foreign Currency                                     606      1,014      1,402
- SIRD Loans                                           100        100        100
- Other (HBL)                                          150        100           0
- Export Finance                                        70        180        270
Recovery of working capital loans                       1,106      1,600       2,200
Increase in deposit                                       364        450         SOO
Total sources                         4.327       5.889      7.316
APPLICATIONS
Repayment of borrowings:
- Local currency                                       162        232        320
- Foreign Currency                                     215        244        286
Interest Expenses                                         662        830       1.060
REQUIRED FOR DEBT SERVICING                             1,039      1,306       1,665
Disbursement of loans
- Local Currency                                       650        811        759
- Foreign Currency                                     606      1,014      1,402
- SIFO Loans                                           100        100         100
- Leasing                                               So        iSO        250
- W. Capital                                         1,600      2.2ro      2,700
- Export Finance                                        70        180        270
Increase in investment                                    134          49         88
Increase in Fixed Assets                                     6          7          7
Increase in other Assets                                   SO          50         50
Payment of other Liabilities                               Is          is         Is
Total Application                     4.320       5.882      7.306
Surplus/(Defic1t)                                            7          7         10
Opening cash and bank balance                              167        175        182
Closing cash and bank balance                              17r        182        192
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIOS                                 1.23       1.25       1.25
Source: IDBP



- 112 -
ANNEX I11
Page 18 of 18
Attachment 4
Page 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (IDBPI
Analysis of Amounts Due and Recoveries (Proiected)
(FY 1989 - FY i991l
(Rs million
FY 1989    FY 1990    FY 1991
A.   Opening Balance                                 1,294       1.277       1.339
Less:  Amount rephased                           380         260         240
8.   Amount Fallen Due:
i)    Against Past Dues                          111         102          76
ii)   Against Current Dues                     1,211       1,385       1,686
sit)  Total Fallen Due                         1,321       1.487       1.762
C.   Exchange Fluctuation                               -           -           -
during the year
0.   Less:  Amount under litigation                     -           -           -
uncollectable temporatily
E.   Total Dues (A+B+C+D)                           2,236       2.504       2.862
F.   Cash Collection:
i)    Arrears                                     S1          63         129
ii)   Current Dues                               90        1.102       1.343
iii)  Total:                                     959       1.165       1,472
G.   Closing Balance (E-F+D):                        1.277       1,339       1.389
RATIOS (M1:
i)   Cash Collection Current to Total                 69%         74%         76%
Fallen Due (F(ti) as % to B)
ii)  Cash Collection Arrears to Opening Balance         4%          S%         10%
MF(i) as % to A)
iii) Cash Collection as % to Total                    43%         47%          51%
Dues (F as % E)
tv)  Total Collection and Rescheduling                 S1%         52%         55%
as % to total dues (F+A(i) as % E+A(i)
v)   Cash Collection Current as % to Amount            75%         80%         80%
Fallen Due current (F(ii) as % B(ii)
Source: IDBP



- 113 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 13
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
Background
1.     PICIC was established in 1957, with the Bank Group's assistance as a
privately-owned corporation, to provide medium- and long-term finance to
private industry. It was also intended tc play a key role in capital market
development through the direct purchase and underwriting of shares and
debentures. During the sixties PICIC developed into a well-managed and
experienced DFC and emerged as the major source of foreign exchange term
finance for private industrial investment. However, the Seventies proved to
be an exceptionaily difficult period for PICIC. In the first half of the
decade, separation of East Pakistan (now Bangladesh), devaluation of the rupee
in 1972 by 130%, the nationalization of some of the major private industries
(heavy engineering and chemical) and speculation about possible
nationalization ot the textile industry (not implemented), all contributed to
a drastic reduction in private industrial investment and led to a general
disruption of the economy. The textile industry, which in the 1970s accounted
for more than 40% of PICIC's loan portfolio, was particularly adversely
affected by reduced exports due to international recession in demand. Many
PICIC borrowers did not repay their loans resulting in the Corporation facing
serious financial problems.
2.     Thus by 1980, PICIC was faced with serious repayment arrears and
internal administrative problems caused by weak management. To address these
problems GCP introduced a number of measures which included introduction of
new senior management, establishment of the GOP Committee for Sick Industrial
Units, regular collections review meetings chaired by the Finance Secretary
and the introduction of the Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme. To assist
in the recovery process, the Bank Group and ADB worked closely with GOP and
PICIC (and also with IDBP which faced similar problems) in resolving the
problem of non-performing assets. As a result, PICIC has been able to improve
collections, particularly of new loans, substanLially improve its liquidity
position, increase its volume of business, and strengthen its financial
condition while taking additional measures to organize itself to function
better in a more competitive financial environment. However, PICIC continues
to face financial problems resulting from loans made prior to 1981 as GOP's
foreign exchange risk coverage scheme applied only to loans meade after 1981.
The problem is compounded by deficiencies in the Pakistan legal system for
recovery of defaulting loans. Recently, GOP has extended the Foreign Exchange
Risk Coverage Scheme to loans made prior to 1981, which will help in
recovering old arrears of payment. PICIC has, however, taken remedial steps
to safeguard aga.nst the impact of these arrears by making substantial
provisions.



- 114 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 13
Ownership
3.     PICIC is a public limited company quoted on the Stock exchange.  As a
consequence of nationalization of the commercial banks and life insuranczv
companies in the 1970s, GOP now holds about 49% of PICIC's shares; the balance
are held by private shareholders (about 23% of which are foreign including
3.5% held by the International Finance Corporation (IFC)). Currently, PICIC
has paid-up capital of Rs. 110 million and reserves of Rs. 1 billion.
Organization and Staffing
4.     PICIC has a 20-member Board of Directors - thirteen from the private
sector (five representing foreign shareholders, one representing IFC) and
seven representing the Government. The Managing Director (MD), who is
appointed by the PICIC Board on recommendation of the Government, is the chief
executive officer and responsible for the management and day to day operations
of the Corporation.  The present MD is an experienced banker.  The Chairman of
the Board is non-executive and the present incumbent is a well known private
sector industrialist.  The Board has delegated authority to an Executive
Committee (which consists of 9 Board Directors mainly from the private sector)
headed by the Managing Director and which has the authority to approve loans
up to US$4 million equivalent. The MD is assisted by four deputy managing
directors (project appraisal, portfolio management and finance, new business
and administration and branches). As of June 30, 1988 PICIC's total staff
number of 334 of which 172 are professionals (which includes 49 financial
analysts, 14 economists, 14 engineers and 10 lawyers). Over the last 3 years
PICIC has provided extensive training to its staff, within the country and
abroad, particularly in the field of computerization; 80 officers were trained
within Pakistan while a further 14 went abroad. Salaries of professional
staff which were unattractive in early eighties are now competitive with other
DFIs and which has resulted in improved staff morale and better performance.
Furthermore, staff turnover which had increased to 18% in 1982 has now been
reduced to 2% in 1987. PICIC's staff and the skill mix is considered adequate
for its traditional business. However, PICIC will need to employ additional
staff to enable it to effectively implement the business diversification
program (para. 5).
5.     PICIC having re-organized during 1985-86, improved its project
appraisal capability by introducing a team concept where an engineer, a
financial analyst/economist and a marketing expert are included in the team.
After approval is given to a project by PICIC's board, the Appraisal
Department's responsibilities are complete and the Project Implementation
Department then arranges for opening of the L/C and oversees the project until
it goes into production. Upon project completion, the responsibility is then
transferred to the Recovery and Follow-up Department for supervision. If the
project turns out to be a problem and needs to be restructured for any reason,
it is assigned to the Special Projects Department. Finally, if there is no



- 115 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 13
possibility of rescheduling or restructuring, the project is referred to the
Legal Department for the intiation of appropriate legal action. To further
improve its cash collections and overall portfolio quality, PICIC has recently
strengthened its Special Projects Department and has instituted measures to
improve the portfolio quality and which include coordination with other
financial institutions and government agencies to work out uniform policies
for compelling debtors to discharge their overdue liabilities.
Recent Performance
6.     PICIC's operations stagnated during the 1980-82 period because of its
financial problems and lack of resources. However, with the availability of
funds under the first IIC project in 1983 and the ADB loan, PICIC's operations
iffroved. PICIC's total term loan approvals increased from Rs. 773 million in
1983 to Rs. 1.9 billion in 1987, an annual average increase of 58%. The
working capital loans after a sharp increase in 1983/84 decreased to Rs. 689
million outstanding at the end of 1987. These have, however, been offset by
increase in rupee term loans. Table I below shows performance over the last 5
years.
Table 2: PICIC - Summary of Operations (1983-1987)
(Rs million)
Rs. million
Term Loans
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
F.C approvals             536      773      796     954    1,793
L.C.    "                 237       98      188     329       382
Total                 773      871     984   1,283    2,175
Disbursements             612      758      815     722       781
Working Capital Loans    257       617      771     720    687
Source: PICIC
7.     During the period 1983-1986, PICIC's lending operations covered a wide
range of industrial subsectors. The textile subsector was the major
beneficiary (36%) followed by chemicals (21%), engineering (9%) and food
processing (9%). The overall dominance of the textile sector, however, has
been gradually declining from its pre-1981 position (more than 50% of total
approvals) as a result of deliberate policy towards less traditional
industries such as chemicals, engineering and food processing. Although PICIC
has made efforts to promote projects in less developed areas, its projects
continue to remain concentrated in the relatively more developed provinces of
Punjab and Sind, largely because of their better infrastructure and marketing
facilities.



- 116 -
ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 13
8.     Given the present sources of financing, PICIC acts mainly as a conduit
for onlending of foreign currency loans obtained from the Bank, ADB and other
bilateral sources and does not have significant local resources of its own for
on-lending. In 1983, PICIC decided to diversify operations in order to cope
with increasing competition from new Development Financial Institutions (DFIs)
and commercial banks and has increased its rupee currency term and working
capital loans but progress has been slow in general mainly due to lack of
management commitment. Equity investment (Rs. 180 million as of December 31,
1987) and underwriting have become more important recently and should be
expanded further. The rupee loan operations are conducted through funds
mobilized from the inter bank call money market backed by existing credit
lines of Rs. 1,585 million from State Bank of Pakistan (SBP). PICIC also has
a credit line of Rs. 750 million for locally manufactured machinery from SBP.
PICIC is a partner with the ADB in the equity of the Pakistan Industrial
Leasing Company (PILC), a private sector company set up to provide equipment
on lease for industrial development. PILC has an authorized capital of Rs.
100 million ($ 5.75 million), 40% of which is owned by the Crescent Group and
20% each by ADB, PICIC and the general public. PICIC's investment and lend½ng
policies and financial guidelines are set out in its Policy Statement which
lays down guidelines for PICIC's operational and financial performance.
PICIC's strateg; is basically sound. PICIC's procurement procedures are
satisfactory and acceptable to the Bank.
9.     Under the Bank financed IIC I and II projects, PICIC utilized US$ 56.4
million spread over 20 subprojects, being 23% of the total funds available.
Textiles accounted for 51% of the amount lent, followed by chemicals at 27%.
PICIC's over exposure in the textile sector needs to be watched carefully.
Portfolio Quality and Arrears
10.    As mentioned earlier, PICIC suffered from the problem of non-performing
assets. In 1982, PICIC's non-performing assets were about 55% of the total
portfolio. Substantial progress has been made since 1982 to improve the
quality of PICIC's portfolio and reduce the level of non-performing assets.
These efforts were intensified under the First and Second IIC projects.
Specific performance targets were established on collection ratio, debt
service coverage ratio, debt/equity ratio and the level of non-performing
assets. PICIC has substantially met the agreed performance criteria as show
in Table 2 below:



- 117 -
ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 13
Table 2: PICIC - Collection Targets under IIC II for
1986 and 1987 and Actual Performance
1986               1987
Target   Actual    Target   Actual
Cash Collection (Rs million)          575       649        650       778
Total Collection (%)                    40       42         45        47
Min. Collection Curtent Dues %          75       91         75        92
Portfolio Infection % current dues   30          23         25        15
11.    Under the proposed FSAL, GOP is considering introducing stringent
guidelines for non-performing loans and accrual of interest not received in
cash. This will require higher provision for non-performing assets, and thus
possibly a need for more equity. Therefore, PICIC is required to carry out a
portfolio audit to determine the impact of new accounting rules and prepare an
action plan to handle non-performing assets for Bank review by negotiations.
Financial Condition and Results
12.    PICIC's financial statements for 1983-87 period are given in the
Attachment 1 of this Annex. PICIC's net income before tax increased from Rs
59 million in 1983 to Rs 139 million in 1987. Net income rose from Rs 43
million to Rs 105 million during the same period.  The sharp increase in
PICIC's profit was due to several factors including higher volume of business,
and higher capital gains on its invetment portfolio. In 1987 PICIC managed
its portfolio more actively and was also active in trading for its own
account. Market has taken note of improvement in PICIC's profitability and
its stock price recovered from a low of Rs 9 per share in 1982 to Rs 37 in
1987. PICIC's return on equity was only 10.22 in 1987. This leaves room for
substantial improvement. PICIC's long-term debt equity ratio was 4.7 which
was within the limit of 7:1. PICIC's DSCR for 1987 was 1.23 compared with the
limit of 1.2. In 1987, administrative expenses as percentage of average total
assets was 0.7% which was satisfactory. Although the size of ncn-performing
assets remains large, PICIC has built up a reserve of Rs 294 million and Rs
1.8 billion in suspense account (interest accrued on overdue accounts but not
credited to the income account). PICIC is audited by Ferguson & Company, a
reputable auditing firm in Pakistan. PICIC's 1987 long-form audit report was
certified without any qualification.
13.    As mentioned earlier, PICIC reported an increase in profit in 1987.
The increase was due to a sharp rise in capital gains from equity investments
and trading activities. PICIC's initiative in diversifying its source of
income is commendable. Since the return from equity investment and stock
trading are by their nature volatile and involve certain risks, it is
recommended that the PICIC's management develop explicit policies to guide
these operations. These policies would cover PICIC's overall exposure limit,



- 118 -
ANNEX 12
Page 6 of 13
target return, security select4on criteria, maximum exposure in a single
security, and the necessary internal control procedures. Such a policy should
be approved by the Board of Directors and the Board should be informed on the
performance on a quarterly basis. The logical extension of this activity
would be for PICIC to offer portfolio -anagement services.
Prospects
14.    Because of the improvement in the investment climate and a more active
role for the private sector envisaged under the SFYP, the business prospects
for term lending institutions in Pakistan are good. PICIC should benefit from
this trend provided that it can position itself to compete in the financial
system which is becoming more competitive. PICIC's projected operations and
financial statements for 1988-91 are provided in the Attachment 2 of this
Annex and highlights are given in Table 3 below.
Table 3: Projected Operations and Key Financial Ratios
(Rs million)
Year ending December 31                     1988        1989      1990      1991
Operations
Loan sanctions - Foreign Currency          1,793       1,883      1883    1,977
- Local Currency             382         401       401       421
Total                                   2,175       2,284    2,284    2,398
Commitments                                1,719       2,235    2,256    1,904
Disbursements                                858       1,292    1,862    1,957
Financial Conditions and Results
Cash and short-term deposits                 312         314       435       467
Loans                                      7,383       8,568   10,256   12,024
Equity Investments                           193         223       258       298
F.C. Borrowings                            2,534       4,172    5,302    6,518
L.C. Borrowings                            2,729       3,290    3,915    3,395
Net Worth                                  1,147       1,292    1,463    1,664
Total assets '-                            7,912       9,276   11,209   13,194
Net profit (after taxes)                      159         199      230       264
Ratios
Net profit/average total assets (X)             2.1         2.3       2.2      2.2
Net profit/average net worth (X)               13.7        16.3     16.7      16.9
Administrative expenses/average
average total assets (%)                     0.70        0.70      0.70      0.50
Long term debt/equity ratio                     4.5         5.1      5.2       5.5
Debt service coverage ratio                     1.25        1.26      1.30     1.27
-l Excludes assets in Bangladesh.
Source: PICIC



- 119 -
ANNEX 12
Page 7 of 13
15.    Over the next few years PICIC will be concentrating its efforts in
diversifying its operations in the area of export import finance, working
capital lending, merchant banking (leasing, underwriting) and portfolio
management. Therefore, its traditional lending businesses are expected to
grow at a more modest pace than during the 1982-87 period. In line with its
policy of diversifying its operations PICIC has prepared a time-bound action
program to implement the agreed business p'an (Attachment 3 of this Annex).
PICIC plans to finance its new business through domestic resource mobilization
in the form of short-term certificate of deposits. It expects to mobilize Rs.
200 million in 1988; Rs. 300 million in 1989; and Rs. 400 million in 1990.
PICIC also expects to intensify its merchant banking activities especially
underwriting and portfolio management. PICIC's proposed implementation plan
is reasonable and, if carefully implemented, it should make substantial
contribution to profitability and long-term viability. For its traditional
term-lending business PICIC expects to meet its resource requirements from ADB
and IBRD credits and other bilateral sources.
16.    Projected Financial Results and Conditions.  Attachment 2 provides
PICIC's projected financial statements for 1988-91. If PICIC carries out its
business diversification plan vigorously and with care it should be able to
show substantial improvement in its profitability. The fee based income will
be beneficial to PICIC. Also, the proposed IFC leasing line of credit will
have a positive impact on PICIC as it would enable PICIC to shelter some
income. Net income is projected to increase from Rs. 107 million in 1987 to
Rs. 264 million in 1991. The average return on equity during 1988-91 is
projected at 16%. Long-term debt equity ratio is projected to remain below
the limit of 7:1 due to the increase in paid-in capital in 1988 and reserves.
The Debt Service Coverage Ratio is projected to hover around 1.25, which is
within the limit of 1.2.  Two crucial factors will determine PICIC's financial
viability. First, the ability of PICIC to contain the level of non-performing
assets and maintain the collection ratio of post-1981 loans at 85%. Second,
implementation of the business diversification plan. Substantial additional
income is expected from new operations. Progress made by PICIC in implementing
the agreed business diversification program will need to be monitored closely
during supervision.
17.    Participating ',onditions.  The participation criteria for PICIC are as
follows: (i) Approval by PICIC's Board of Directors of the business
diversification plan and the implementation schedule; (ii) approval by PICIC's
Board of Directors of its equity investment management policy; (iii) approval
by PICIC's Board of Directors of a revised strategy statement; (iv) approval
of a staffing and training program to enable implementation of the business
plan by PICIC's management; and (v) preparation of an action plan to handle
problem projects.
18.    Eligibility Criteria.  PICIC's access to Bank funds would be subject
to: (i) Implementation of the agreed business plan (Annex 12, attachment 3);
(ii) maintenance of Debt Service Coverage Ratio of 1.20; (iii) maintenance of
Long-Term Debt:Equity Ratio of 7:1; (iv) implementation of the plan for
handling problem projects; and (v) maintenance of collection ratios of post
1981-loans of at least 80% in 1988 and 1989.



- 120 -
ANNEX 12
Page 8 of 13
Attachment 1
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
Income Statements (1983-1987)
(Rs million)
Income                                   1983    1984    1985       1986    1987
Interest income                          258     316      351       454      509
Commitment fees                           48       23      31        45       48
Income - short-term investments           10       10      10        13       15
Income - equity investments               22      43       21        27       69
Total income                    338      392      413      539      641
Expenses
Interest on borrowings                   222     254      270       334      389
Commitment fees 
Administrative expenses                   25       22      33        36       45
Depreciation                               1        1        1        2        3
Provision for doubtful debts              20       16       8        32       52
Portfolio write-offs                      11       20       5         8       13
Total expenses                  279      313      317      412      502
Net income                                59       79      96       127      139
Less:  income taxes                    (16)    (17)    (53)       (37)    (34)
Net income (after taxes)                _A]       ___2    -A        ___D     _
Dividend                                  14       16       18       22       22
Ratios
Net profit/avg. networth (%)             9.0      12.6    7.2       11.5    10.2
Net profit/avg. total assets (%)         1.3       1.7    1.0        1.6      1.6
Long term debt/equity ratio              5.9       6.3    6.1        5.6      4.7
Admin. exp.iavg. total assets            0.7       0.6    0.7        0.6      0.7
Admin. exp./avg. loan portfolio (%)   1.1          0.8    1.0        0.9      0.9
Source: PICIC



- 121 -
ANNEX 12
Page 9 of 13
Attachment 1
Page 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
Balance Sheets (1983-1987) -'
(Rs million)
Assets                                    1983    1984    1985       1986    1987
Cash and short term deposits              120      123     146       298      359
Securities                                 20       21       2         8       19
Sundry current assets                     103      115      50        40       55
Accrued interest                          645      637     816    1,114   1,340
Loan portfolio (gross)                  2,639   3,167   4,089    4,804   5,501
Less:  reserves                        (224)   (238)   (235)    (247)   (294)
Loan portfolio (net)                    2,415   2,929   J,854    4,557   5,207
Equity investments                        105      110     128       143      181
Fixed assets (net)                          4        5        7       10       13
Total assets                            34U12   3.940   5.003    6,170   7.174
Liabilities and Net Worth
Current liabilities                       164      172     231       388      475
Long term borrowings                    2  _             4
Total liabilities                     2_944   3,427   4,329    5,237   5,996
Paid-up capital                           110      110     110       110      110
Reserves-retained earnings                358      403     564       773   1,068
Net worth                               468      513     674       883   1,178
Total liabilities and net worth         LAU    3.940   5_00        6,7    7,174
Long term debt:equity ratio              5.9       6.3     6.1       5.6      4.7
t' Assets and liabilities in East Pakistan are excluded.
Source: PICIC



- 122 -
ANNEX 12
Page 10 of 13
Attachment 2
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
Projected Income Statements (1988-1991)
(Rs million)
Year ending December 31                   1988    1989    1990       1991    1992
Income
Interest income
-Short-term Loans                         136      171     206       241      276
-Long-term Loans                          487      537     620       729      840
Commitment fees and other Charges          65       80       90       95      100
New Business Areas                          7       52       69       80       91
Income from Loan Operations               695      840     985    1,145   1,307
Dividend Income                            30       36       45       50       50
Miscellaneous Income                       30       32       35       35       35
Total Income                              755      908   1,065    1,230   1,392
Expenses
Interest on:
Borrowing Cost of Funds                   6       34      45        51       56
Short-term advances                     118      136     153       171      188
Long-term advances                      290      323     394       484      574
Commitment charges etc. on borrowing        9        9       10       12       13
Provision for Losses                       35       38      40        42       45
Administrative Expenses                    52       60       70       64       68
Total Expenses                            510      600      712      824      944
Profit before Tax                         245      308      353      406      448
Less Income taxes                          86      109      123      142      159
NET INCOME                                159      1991    23Q       264    _28
Ratios
Net profit/average net worth (X)           13.7    16.3    16.7        16.9    16.3
Net profit/average total assets (%)         2.1      2.3      2.2       2.2     2.0
Admin. exp/average total assets (X)         0.7      0.7      0.7       0.5     0.5
Source: PICIC



- 123 -
ANNEX 12
Page 11 of 13
Attachment 2
Page 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC QF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III1 PROJECT
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
Proiected Qalance Sheets (1988-19911
(Rs million)
As of December 31                           nu88   198    199       i91    192i
Assets
Cash & ST Deposits                          312     314      435      467      518
Securities                                  263     413      563      698      803
Deposits. etc.                               40     -A0       40       40       4
Total Current Assets                        61      794   1.038   1.205   _5.61
Portfolio
F.C. Loans                               4,020   4.588   5,579   6,619   7,48S
Loans
-Short-term Advances                     1,070      270   1.670   1,945   2,220
-Long-term Advances                        916   1,036   1,211  1389   1,569
-Overdue Interest                        1.377   1.574   1.796   2.121   2.551
Term loan portfolio                      7.383   8.568  10.256  12.024  13,825
Equity Investments                          193     223      258      298      348
Total portfolio                          7.576   8.791  10,514  12.372  14,173
Less:  Provision for Losses               J_9_4)   (325)   (360)   (401)   (446)
Total Portfolio (net)                    7,282   8,466  10,154  11.971  13,727
Fixed Assets (Net)                           is       16       17      18       19
TOTAL ASSETS                             7,912   9.276  11,209  13,194  15.107
LIABILITIES AND EOUITY
Current Liabilities                         379      399     406      415      4 4
Deferred Liabilities                        123      123     123      123      123
Foreign Currency Borrowings              3,534   4,172   5,302   6.518   7,597
Local Borrowings
Call Money                                1,692   1.942   2,192   2,442   2,692
Deposits from Certificates                  200      300     400      450      500
State Bank Local Machinery                  816   1.027   1,302   1.561   1,815
Gcvernment Sub-ordinated Loans               21       21      21       21       21
Total Long-term Debt                     6.263   7.462   9,217  10.992  12.625
EOUITY
Paid-up Capital                             149      149     149      149      149
General Reserves                            673      818     989   1,190   1.411
Exchange Fluctuations Reserves              32S      325     325      325      325
Total Equity                              1.147   1.292   1.463   1.664   1.885
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EOUITY                              11_2A2  11_192    LJ,10
Debt/Equity Ratio                             4.5      5.13    5.21    5.49    5.58
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                   1.25    1.26    1.30    1.27    1.29
Source: PICIC



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT IIIC III   PROJECT
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED (PICIC)
Business Diversification Plan
Activitv                     Action/Scope                       Progress Achieved so Far              Constraints                Further Action    Time-Table
A. COMMERCIAL BANKING
A-1 Deposit Mobilization   Augment Local Currenicy              1. Board approval has
resources by:                      already been received.
1. Making it compulsory for
clients to deposit their          2. Government has already          - Acute competition           1. Identify Suit-   To start
equity contribution.               been approached for imple-          presented by existing          able locations   immediately.
mentation of raising funds          marketable securities.          for establish-
through PICIC's certificates                                       ment of branches.
2. Issuance of certificates        of deposits/bonds.               - To achieve a feasible
of deposit/bonds.                                                      rate of return.             2. Recruit Staff       To be comn-
Internal .nd       pleted by
External in res-  4th Quarter
pective regions.  of 1988.
3. Intensive train-  To be com-
ing program to    pleted by
acquaint staff    3th Quarter
with the handl-   of 1989.
ing and workings
of Deposit Schemes.
A-2 Export 8 Import          -Intensify PICIC's                 -Board Approval received.                                        4. Issuing a      To be comn-
Financing                 already existing Import and    -SBP has already granted                                              marketing       pleted by
L/C facility to new and            license to deal in foreign                                        plan.           4th Quarter
existing clients.                  exchange, which permits                                                           1988.
PICIC to:
-Infiltrate the Export                                                                             -Staff Selection  By 3rd Quarter
business field.                  i) Retain foreign exchange         -Being the major activity                          of 1988.
balances                       of commercial banks PICIC
will have to carve a         -Determine nece-
ii) To open letters of            niche for itself by            ssary training   By 3rd Quarter
credit on behalf of           emphasizing the availa-        needs.              of 1988.
its clients for imports       bility of suc facili-
covered by W.C. loans         ties to its clients.          -Training           By 4th Quarter
granted to PICIC.             (AWARENESS)                    Program.            of 1988.
-Negotiate documents against   -Lack of know-how in the    -Implementation.  By 1st Quarter
export letters of credit          field of Import/Export                            of 1989.
and to collect export             Dealings.
proceeds related to those                                      -Link with one    By 2nd Quarter
financed by PICIC.              -Staff in adequacy.             or two strong       of 1989.
foreign and                      D m
local Commercial                I  X
Banks.                                 >
-To approach       By 2nd Quarte e    z
State Bank of      of 1989.      3
Pakistan for                     x  
specific credit               I  w u ro
line for export               Q
financing.                     I



B. Merchant Banking
Activities:
1. Lease Financing          -Setting-up joint ventures         -Government approval has         -Sole lease financing        A Mercant Banking   By 4th Ouarter
with a well-reputed Pakistan    been moved to start lease          requires expertise in        Division to be        of 1988.
party, foreign collaboration    lease financing.                   the field                    set-up.
and PICIC.
-To extend leasing facili-        -PILC. a joint PICIC             -Depreciation clause
ties to new and existing          venture is already underway,   from CBR essential.
clients.                          and is expected to be
established shortly.
2. Underwriting of          -To be more active in the
Public issues and         field.
Capital Market
Intermediation.
3. Management of PICIC's   -To increase this achieving         -Substantial stock functions   -Very limited scope                                 A Policy State-
Equity portfolio and      to maximum profits.               during the current year has    because of small stock                              ment was
line of credit                                              already taken place.             market activity.                                  approved by the
including corporations                                                                                                                         Board in Oct.
equity in its sub-
sidiaries.
4. Syndication of long-    -PICIC is already well-
term needs of             equipped to cater to the
industrial projects       financial needs of its
both in foreign &         clients. and is already
local currencies.         involved efficiently in
this area.
5. Foreign Currency         -Various sources, inclusive        -FMO negotiations are near       -Tied line of Credits.
Resource Mobilization.   of FMO, Swiss Line, ADS,            completion.
German line have been tapped
to increase availability of    -Swiss Credit has already          -Country risk leading
foreign currency supply.          been made effective.             to availability of funds
for shorter duration.
-Japanese Bond Issue.
6. Arranging Technical       -Agreements have been made        -Technical /ssistance fund
know-how.                 with FMO anu other foreign         has been agreed too by the
agencies to provide               the FMO.
technical assistance to our
existing and prospective
clients.
ft OQ
ft M
November 10. 1988                                                                                                                                                 >
GQ =r w 3
m =19
m n -n
:  .t 



- 126 -
ANNEX 13
Page I of 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT -
Proiected Dibursements
(US$ million)
Credit         T.A.           Total
(Cumulative
FY89
Si                          0           0.0              0.0             0.0
S2                          4.8         0.2              5.0             3.3
FY90
Si                         14.7         0.3             15.0            13.3
S2                         14.7         0.3             15.0            23.3
FY91
Si                         32.3         0.2             32.5            45.0
:g2                        32.3         0.2             32.5            66.7
FY92
Si                         19.8         0.2             20.0            80.0
S2                         19.8         0.2             20.0            93.3
FY93
Si                          4.8         0.2              5.0            96.7
52                          4.8         0.2              5.0           100.0
TOTAL                       148QO                        UQ              _
I'    Assuming that the loan becomes effective on May 1, 1989.



- 127 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC III) PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Proiect
A.   The Manufacturing and Financial Sector
1. Seventh Five Year Plan (FY88 - FY93)
2. Review of Pakistan's Financial System and Impact on Industrial
Investment, IBRD Working Paper, July 1982
3. State Bank of Pakistan, Annual Report (1987-88)
4. A Comparative Analysis of the Nationalized Commercial Banks and
Foreign Banks Operating in Pakistan, May 1988
5. The Islamization of Pakistan's Financial Sector, P. Popiel and
I. Dalla, December 1984
6. Capital Markets, Farida Khambata, October 14, 1987
B.   Project Related Reports and Documents
7. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations
8. HBL's Annual Report (1987)
9. HBL's Policy and Strategy Statements
10.  MCB's Annual Report (1987)
11.  MCB's Policy and Strategy Statements
12.  UBL's Annual Report (1987)
13.  UBL's Policy and Strategy Statements
14. IDBP's Annual Report (1986-1987)
15. IDBP's Policy and Strategy Statements
16. NDFC's Annual Report (1987)
17. NDFC's Policy and Strategy Statements
18. PICIC's Annual Report (1987)
19. PICIC's Policy and Strategy Statements
20. NBP's Annual Report (1987)
21.  NP) - W liry  id SLxaLtgy - atc.ner,rtF



IBRD 16248R1
6r4                                        6e                                       72        U  5 S R
(                        ~~~CHiNA
PAKISTAN
36'                                                                                                                                                           30
36    NATIONAL CAPITAL
°   CITIES AND TOWNS
-        INATIONAL ROADS
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS
RAILWAYS                                                        Cs
+      AIRPORTS                                                       '        Cho.sodo                           Dn- of Co-*,
-    -    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                          0h'
INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES                                                           d -Ies'o': k  o
RIVERS                                                                                R      d   JAMMU cnd KASHMIR
32'                                                                                                                                                           3 A  vg -  2'
.  AF GhANIST,4N  wf                          J                                  8>~~~~~~~~~~~               ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~so,oboo  a- 
0        ;                        0                           X                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\1 C A
28-                                                                                                                                                           21']
SLAMIC           j                                   C                                                      -a,
REPUBLIC OF -,
I RAN             .                                                                 ( /                                         20ft       3D
K -Dy"ERS
0      50       00      i5o     200     250
6  ic'o  \    %9\QNo.obs6oh                           .LES
r   2 ~   5>   iSonn,on.                                        T s 1  tr"nap  5s bwe owos'ed by
Hyderobod                                     m          Ba-.aB e n'e l cxc.,e.
rr f'. co-.n. enlc 0 the
Bulel. Pt     o och                                                     reea ads  kds e' IC' meF
Sonr  ale' The Wcdd Or'
Otto                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o' tfq hteaj ato'e France
-24-                                                                  .M, '8d.                                                         co7 (rcoefd°b  ^w^dye *m.t  ,<
,e. o'l The fi07 RsnA ald Me
a,K.srr" tcrda'S.seo
e-ls
64M 681
MARiCH 1987



