Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15731
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
ThIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC-III)
(LOAN 3019-PAK/CREDIT 1982-PAK)
MAY 30, 1996
Private Sector Development & Finance Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
(annual average)
Rs. Per US$1.00           US$ Per Rs.1.00
1987         17.399                    0.0574
1988         18.003                    0.0555
1989        20.541                     0.0486
1990        21.707                     0.0460
1991        23.801                     0.0420
1992        25.083                     0.0390
1993         28.107                    0.0355
1994        30.567                     0.0327
1995         31.643                    0.0316
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          -     Asian Development Bank
BEL          -     Bankers Equity Limited
CLA          -     Corporate Law Authority
DFIs         -     Development Finance Institutions
FSAL         -     Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FSDIP        -     Fin. Sect. Deepening & Intermediation Proj
GoP          -     Government of Pakistan
HEL          -     Habib Bank Limited
IDBP         -     IndustrIal Development Bank of Pakistan
L\C          -     Letter of Credit
MCB          -     Muslim Commercial Bank
NBP          -     National Bank of Pakistan
NDFC         -     National Development Finance Corporation
PICIC        -     Pakistan Ind. Credit and Investment Corp.
PFIs         -     Participating Financial Institutions
SBP          -     State Bank of Pakistan
T,           -     Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEARS
GOP                                                 = July 1 to June 30
HBL, NBP, MCB, PICIC, NDFC                          = January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface
Zvaluation Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
PART I:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
A.       Statement/Evaluation  of Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Evaluation of Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
B.       Achievement of Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Implementation  of the  IBRD Loan Component  . . . . . . . . . . .  2
PFIs  Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Sub-projects  Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Implementation  of the IDA Credit  Component   . . . . ... . . . .  4
Capital Market Development    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
C.       Major Factors Affecting  the Project   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
D.       Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
E.       Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
F.       Borrower  Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
G.       Assessment  of Outcome   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
H.       Follow-up/Future  Operations   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
I.       Lessons  Learned   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
PART II:  STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1   - Summary of Assessments    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Table  2   - Related Bank Loans/Credits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Table  3   - Project  Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Table  4   - Credit Disbursements:  Cumulative  Estimated and Actual  . 12
Table  5   - Key Indicators  for Implementation                  . . . . . . . . . . 13
Table  6   - Key Indicators  for Project Operation   . . . . . . . . . 14
Table  7   - Studies  Included  in Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Table  SA - Project  Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Table  8B  - Project  Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Table  9   - Economic  Costs  and Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Table  10  - Status  of Legal  Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Table  11  - Compliance  With Operational  Manual  Statements  . . . . . 17
Table  12  - Bank Resources:  Staff  Inputs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Table  13  - Bank Resources:  Missions    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
STATISTICAL ANNEXES:
I.      Sub-project  Financing  - Habib Bank Limited  . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
II.      Sub-Project  Financing  - Muslim Commercial  Bank  . . . . . . . . . . 20
III.       Sub-Project  Financing  - National  Bank of Pakistan   . . . . ... . . 21
IV.      Sub-Project  Financing  - Pak.  Ind.  Credit  & Inv.  Corporation   . . . 22
V.      Sub-project  Financing  - National  Dev.  Finance Corporation   . . . . 23
VI.      Sub-Projects'  Performance   . . . . . . . i . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
VII.       Technical Assistance  - Under  IDA Credit  (1982-Pak)  . . . . . . . . 25
APPBNDIXES:
A.        ICR Aide Memoire  and Government's  Statement  of Sector Policy  . . . 26
B.       Borrower's  Contribution  to ICR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
C.       Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiaL duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without World lank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT
(Ln. 3019-Pak / Cr. 1982-Pak)
Preface
1.          This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third
Industrial Investment Credit (Ln. 3019/Cr. 1982) in the amount of US$ 150
million (inclusive of US$ 2 million equivalent IDA Credit for technical
assistance) was approved on January 31, 1989 and made effective on June 16,
1989. The IDA Credit component was closed as originally scheduled on June 30,
1994. Final transaction for the credit component took place on February 21,
1995 at which time a balance of US$ 267,000 was cancelled. The loan component
was, however, extended for 18 months and was closed on December 31, 1995. It
should be mentioned that Bank established this closing date for one financed
sub-project and closed all other project components/sub-loans on June 30,
1995. Final transaction for the loan component took place on February 27,
1996, at which time a balance of about US$ 10.34 million was cancelled.
2.          The ICR was prepared by Shideh Hadian, Private Sector Development
and Finance Division of the South Asia Region and reviewed by Mr. Abid Hasan
(Acting Division Chief) and Fakhruddin Ahmed (Project Advisor). The borrower
provided comments that are included as appendix to the ICR.
3.          Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final
supervision/completion mission, January 1996. It is based on material in the
project file. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
preparing the data on different component of the project, preparing own
evaluation and commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT (IIC-III)
(Ln. 3019-Pak/Cr.1982-Pak)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
l.          Four Bank loans and two IDA credits totaling US$ 354 million had
been approved for the development of small, medium, and large scale industries
in Pakistan during four years preceding this project (Table 2). These loans
and credits, in addition to meeting the long-term investment financing for the
private manufacturing industries, supported the Government's policy reform
programs and institutional strengthening of the participating financial
institutions and concerned government agencies.
Project Obiectives
2.          The project was designed to assist the Government of Pakistan
(GOP) in meeting its objectives of increasing the role of the private sector
and accelerating the growth of the capital markets. The main objectives of
the project were to: Ci) improve credit delivery system for industrial finance
and ensure a stable flow of long-term foreign exchange resources to private
industry; (ii) assist GOP in accelerating the growth of equity markets through
necessary policy changes and Technical Assistance (TA); (iii) assist the
Development Finance institutions (DFIs) in their operational diversification
programs and continue institution building of Participating Financial
Institutions (PFIs); and (iv) address selected corporate finance issues such
as bridge loans and more market oriented interest rate to foster efficient
industrial growth.
3.          IIC-III complemented Bank's previous industrial sector operations
and was in line with the priority objectives of the GOP and the Bank's country
assistance strategy (para. 2). The project objectives and timing were right
for the GOP's policy reforms and development priorities in Pakistan's Seventh
Five Year Plan (1988-93). The amount of the project was realistic and met 50
percent of foreign exchange requirement of total project cost of US$ 298
million. The balance was financed by the sponsors and PFIs (para. 3).
Implementation experience and Results
4.          While the development objectives of the project were achieved in
some areas, the overall implementation of IIC-III did not have desirable
outcome and was deficient in some areas. Project performance was affected by
a number of internal and external factors which resulted in delays in
implementation and deterioration of the PFIs loan collection performance. The
IIC-III project had two components: (i) an IBRD loan of US$ 148.0 million for
financing the capital investments of viable private manufacturing industries
in all sub-sectors; and (ii) an IDA Credit of US$ 2.0 million equivalent for
TA for supporting the development of capital markets and organizational
improvements of concerned institutions.
5.          Implementation of the IBRD Loan Component - The commitment and
disbursement under the loan component were made with delays but, overall,
satisfactorily. The loan amount was 93 percent utilized by 37 Medium and
Large Scale industries for capital investments and a balance of US$ 10.34
1/ Provides cross-references to paragraphs in the main text of the ICR.



- ii -
million was cancelled. IIC-III had significant impact on employment
generation (about 8,200 direct jobs were created). The commitment and
disbursements were slower than the rate anticipated by the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR). Commitments were generated smoothly at the beginning; however,
subsequent sub-loan cancellations occurred, particularly in 1992/1993. During
period 1993-94, a large number of sub-projects faced liquidity problems;
therefore, number of arrears grew and PFIs recovery rate generally
deteriorated. The PFIs collection ratio in 1993 and 1994 fell below minimum
required 80% under this project.
6.          In early 1990s, a combination of adverse domestic and external
factors resulted in decline in Pakistan growth rate and led to sluggish
industrial investment activities in particular in the textile industry (para.
16). In 1992-1993, the Pakistan's GDP growth rate declined to the level of
its population growth mainly due to a sharp decline in agricultural cutput.
Adverse whether condition and viral attack on the cotton crop resulted in
decline in wheat harvest and cotton crop failure. Bad cotton crop for three
consecutive years (1992, 1993, and 1994) resulted in critical shortage of
cotton and more than 100% increase in prices during this period and slowed
down activities in the textile industry. Economic recession in major markets
for Pakistan exports and intensified competition by its trading competitors
were added to the domestic problems the country was facing. The 1993-94
political turbulence in the country and later the law and order situation in
Sind Province adversely affected economic activities and more so the
performance of industrial sector. Most of the industrial units and in
particular those in textile sector faced liquidity problem and had losses or
closed down.
7.          Frequently changing Government policies has made investment
planning and project financing difficult for the business community in
Pakistan. Profitability of some sub-projects was adversely affected due to
changes in government policies which were not accounted for in the suIb-
projects' feasibility study and financial planning. In addition to
circumstances mentioned above, several other factors affected the PFIs
financial performance and their loan recovery rate; including: (i) over
exposure of the PFIs loan portfolio in the textile sector and their fa--lure to
diversify their loan portfolio, as proposed by the project (para. 17): :ii
political interference in managerial appointments and credit lending decision
of PFIs; (iii) absence of a transparent and consistent accounting and auditing
standards which provides lenders with reliable and timely information on the
borrower's creditworthiness; and (iv) lack of effective legal framework that
ensures speedy and impartial settlement of claims. At the sub-project level,
delays in opening the Letters of Credit by some sub-borrowers and problemas
with shipment/delivery schedule of goods by the suppliers had alsc contributed
to slow implementation of sub-projects and disbursements rate (para. 1,3.
8.           Implementation of the IDA Credit Component - The credit flund was
not utilized for all the TA components proposed in the SAR (para. 12). It: was
only used for training and system improvement by HBL, PICIC, NDFC, and the
Bankers Equity Limited (BEL), one of the development banks (Annex VII).
Although, in general, the training programs proved to be useful and well
appreciated by the beneficiaries, there was not a systematic and formalized
procedures for selection of trainees and for their evaluation after the
training program. Overall, the impact of TA component was limited. About 87
percent of the fund was utilized and the credit was closed as originally
scheduled on June 30, 1994; a balance of about US$ 267,000 was cancelled.
9.          Capital Market Development - Bank, through its IIC pro-ects, had
been instrumental in the acceleration and the development of the capital
markets in Pakistan (para. 13). IIC-III proposed several measures for
improvement of the equities markets. First, to ensure a sound capital
structure and strong commitment from sponsors, the project required that the



- iii -
debt:equity ratio of sub-projects financed under this loan not to exceed 60:40
and that the Bridge Loans be considered as debt. Second, to increase the
number of participants in the stock markets, the project proposed to allow the
financial institutions and investment corporations become members of the KSE.
Third, to increase the distribution network for shares in the country, it was
recommended that commercial banks to perform trust functions on behalf of
their clients. Fourth, in order to provide incentives to the companies to
seek listing in stock markets, it was recommended that the pricing of new
issues in the equity market be left completely to market participants rather
than controlled. Fifth, to increase resources for equity finance, the project
proposed to allow the corporate sector to issue Participation Terms
Certificates directly to the public. The government implemented all the
measures except for the opening up of the stock exchange because of reluctance
of the KSE to expand its membership. In 1990, the KSE agreed to amend its
Article of Association to only allow the financial institutions buy membership
from the existing members (para. 15).
Project Cost, Financinca, and Time Schedules
10.         Project cost was estimated at US$ 298 million during the
appraisal, and the actual cost was about US$ 275 million (Tables 8A & 8B).
The project was prepared, signed, and became effective as originally
scheduled. Due to slow implementation of the loan component, its original
closing date was extended twice for a total of 18 months, to December 31, 1995
(para. 6 & Table 3). IDA credit component was closed as originally scheduled.
Project Sustainability
11.         The prerequisite conditions for success and long-term
sustainability of financial intermediation operations would include: (i)
internal operational efficiency of financial intermediaries; (ii) prudent
financial sector within which the financial institutions operate; and (iii)
effective and consistent institutional/regulatory/legal framework for
development and efficient operations of the financial institutions and the
private sector. In Pakistan, the loan portfolio of the financial system has
been deteriorating due partly to external factors and partly to internal
deficiency of the institutions and poor legal and regulatory framework.
Despite GOP's efforts in improving the financial sector policy (assisted
through Bank projects), there are still deficiencies in the operations of
financial sector and more need to be done (para 19). The benefits from the
Bank assisted projects may not be sustainable in the long-run without
improving the efficiency in the financial sector and strengthening the
institutional framework.
12.           Another key factor in achieving the project sustainability is
the success of sub-borrowers with respect to their profitability and rate of
return. The PFIs did not effectively follow-up the sub-projects' performance
after the sub-loans were made and did not have any information on sub-
projects' ex-post economic rate of return. Therefore, it is difficult to
precisely and systematically assess the sustainability of benefits of the sub-
projects (para. 21). The long-term sustainability of the sub-projects is also
dependent on their sound capital structure which can be achieved through
encouraging a higher share of equity participation and restricting use of
bridge loans (para. 22). IIC-III was, to some extent, successful in achieving
this objective.
Bank and Borrower Performance
13.         The performance of Bank and GOP was satisfactory in identification
and timely preparation of IIC-III (paras. 23 & 26). However, their
performance in the implementation was somewhat deficient. Bank sent only four
supervision missions, with the first two within 9 months after the



- iv -
effectiveness and the last two during the last five years of the project life.
Given the problem of increasing arrears and slow sub-project implementation,
lack of effective and adequate supervision was a crucial issue.
14.         While the five PFIs could meet the project eligibility criteria
and were successful in the commitments of funds to the private manufacturing
sector they, in general, remain financially weak and could not maintain the
collection criteria during 1993-94 (para. 27).
Findinas, Follow-up/Future Operations, and Lessons Learned
15.         To complement and expand the objectives and achievements of the
IIC-III and previous related industrial projects, in April 1991, the Board
approved the Microenterprise project with the objective of further supporting
the Government on its continued efforts to strengthen the Pakistan's financial
system and link it to the productive sectors of the economy (para. 29). The
recently approved Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation Project
(FSDIP) also focuses on maintaining the momentum for improving.financial
sector. The Bank will continue its support to Pakistan with assistance in,
among other things, improving financial intermediation for micro and small-
scale enterprises through a micro credit operation (para. 30). GOP's
commitment to implement the elements of the financial sector reform policy and
improving the legal and regulatory framework proposed under the follow-up Bank
projects is the key to the long-term sustainability of the intermediation
operations that have been designed to support the industrial sector
operations.
16.         Successful operations and sustainability of financial
intermediation operations depends, to a large extent, on the financial
viability of the credit institutions and their internal operational
efficiency. This, in turn, can be achieved through a prudent financial sector
policy and consistent and effective institutional/regulatory/legal
environment. Political interference in the PFIs management and their lending
decision lowered their asset quality and their loan recovery rate. When there
is such a risk in a country like Pakistan, Bank should avoid to channel its
loan through the Government owned financial institutions (para. 31). The PFIs
need to strengthen their appraisal and supervision capacity and also
streamline their information system in order to obtain regular and systematic
information on the sub-projects performance.
17.         Effective and timely monitoring and supervision of the project by
both Bank and the borrower is an integral to the success of the project.
Considering the shortcomings in the financial system and prevailing political
and economic difficulties in the country, the Bank should have sent more
supervision missions and provided adequate staffing for close monitoring of
the participating credit institutions and the financed sub-projects.
18.         Bank needs to improve upon the design of the TA at the SAR stage
by identifying and defining its clear objectives, its precise terms of
reference, its the link to the project objectives, and its potential benefits.
Bank also needs to strengthen the emphasis of its supervision effort for the
TA activities in order to improve the implementation. The Government needs to
strengthen its monitoring, evaluation procedures, documenting, and reporting
of the TA programs funded by the multinational organizations and other donors
and learn from the implementation experience of the past projects in order to
improve upon the design of the TA for new projects.
May 30, 1996



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT LOAN/CREDIT (IIC-III)
(Ln. 3019-PAK/Cr. 1982-PAK)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Oblectives
1.          Pro-ect Objectives - The project was designed to assist the
Government of Pakistan (GOP) in meeting its objectives of increasing the role
of the private sector and accelerating the growth of the capital markets. The
main objectives of the project were to: (i) improve credit delivery system for
industrial finance and ensure a stable flow of long-term foreign exchange
resources to private industry; (ii) assist GOP in accelerating the growth of
equity markets through necessary policy changes and Technical Assistance (TA);
(iii) assist the Development Finance institutions (DFIs) in their operational
diversification programs and continue institution building of Participating
Financial Institutions (PFIs); and (iv) address selected corporate finance
issues such as bridge loans and more market oriented interest rate to foster
efficient industrial growth.
2.          Evaluation of Objectives - Preparation of IIC-III and its focus
were in line with the Bank's country assistance strategy and GOP's priority
objectives under the Seventh Five Year Plan (1988-93). The trust of the
seventh plan was to establish more efficient and sophisticated industries,
minimize the direct role of the Government, set up more industrial estates in
order to eliminate infrastructure problems, privatize selected public
enterprises, and strengthen the financial institutions in project finance.
During the past two decades, the Bank has played an important role in
supporting GOP to revitalize the private sector, improving public enterprise
efficiency, strengthening the financial system, and increasing exports in line
with Pakistan's comparative advantage.
3.          Under seventh plan, projected investment in medium and large scale
(M&LS) industries for period 1988-91 (commitment period for IIC-III) was
estimated at Rs 42 billion of which Rs 17 billion (about US$ 1.0 billion) was
required in foreign exchange. Based on the available resources of DFIs at the
time, project pipeline of the Asian Development Bank (ADB), and suppliers'
credit and bilateral sources, there was a financing gap of about US$ 530
million. Since the Bank and ADB were the two major sources of foreign
exchange for term lending in Pakistan, the Bank continued involvement was
crucial for making adequate foreign exchange resources available to the PFIs
to maintain momentum in credit lending to the private sector. IIC-III project
of US$ 150 million was approved by the Board in January 31, 1989 to finance 50
percent of the US$ 298 million financing package. The balance was financed by
the sponsors and PFIs.
4.          Political uncertainties and possibilities of the slow
implementation of policy reform to support a strong private investment climate
were identified as the main risks to the implementation of the credit
component. However, project pipeline of the DFIs indicated credit demand
substantially in excess of the amount proposed by the project which ensured
full commitment of the credit component within two years of effectiveness. In
addition, steps were taken by the GOP and Bank to remove control inhibiting
industrial development and to strengthen the financial sector.



2
B. Achievement of Oblectives
5.          While the development objectives of the project were achieved in
some areas, the overall implementation of IIC-III did not have desirable
outcome and was deficient in some areas. A number of internal and external
factors adversely affected the project performance during the implementation
phase (paras. 16-18). The IIC-III project consisted of two components: (i) an
IBRD loan (Ln. 3019-PAK) of US$ 148.0 million for financing the capital
investments of viable private manufacturing industries in all sub-sectors; and
(ii) an IDA Credit (Cr. 1982-PAK) of US$ 2.0 million equivalent for TA for
supporting the development of capital markets and organizational improvement
of PFIs.
G.           Implementation of the IBRD Loan Component - The commitment and
disbursement under the loan component were made with delays but, overall,
satisfactorily. Performance of the project, however, could have been better
had there been less interference by the Government in the management and
lending decision of the PFIs (para. 27). The objective of providing long-term
foreign exchange resources to private industries was achieved as the loan
amount was 93 percent utilized by 37 M&LS industries for capital investments
and a balance of about US$ 10.34 million was cancelled. IIC-III had
significant impact on employment generation. About 8,200 jobs were generated
in the industrial sector. The commitment and disbursements of IIC-III were
slower than the rate anticipated by the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
Commitments were generated smoothly at the beginning; however, subsequent sub-
loan cancellations occurred, mainly due to adverse domestic and international
economic condition in early 1990s. At the request of GOP, the deadline for
submission of sub-loan applications was extended and the unutilized balance of
loan proceed was committed for fresh sub-loans during 1992-94. Accordingly,
the project closing date was extended twice for a total of 18 months, to
December 31, 1995, in order to provide the PFIs and project sponsors with
adequate time to complete sub-projects implementation and disbursements (para.
18). IIC-III followed the same pricing policy for sub-loan financing as that
under the second IIC project. The project proposed a competitive market rate
with a minimum on-lending rate of 15%- for the final sub-borrower.  The PFIs
were allowed to price the individual sub-loan at or above the minimum lending
rate based on the credit risk of each sub-borrower. The minimum 15% rate was
substantially positive in real term at the time and was consistent with market
lending rates. The on-lending rates were reviewed annually to ensure that the
rates remain positive in real terms through the project.
7.          PFIs Performance - The PFIs that were originally included in the
project consisted of four commercial banks and three DFIs.' Out of these
seven PFIs, five (HBL, MCB, NBP, PICIC, NDFC) met the participation conditions
and eligibility criteria and were selected to participate in the project. The
objective of improving the credit delivery system for industrial finance
through institutional development of PFIs and business diversification
programs of PICIC and IDBP was not achieved for the most part. Although 93
percent of the loan was committed and disbursement was smooth, the adequacy of
approval and monitoring of sub-projects is questionable. The project
appraisal and loan recovery capacity of PFIs are generally weak, despite
continuous assistance from Bank and other donors for their institutional
upgrading (para. 12). PICIC was late in completing its business
diversification but managed to comply with the participation conditions and
eligibility criteria one year after the project effectiveness, in July 1990.
1/ Commercial banks consisted of Habib Bank Limited (HBL); United Bank Limited
(UBL); Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB); and National Bank of Pakistan (NBP). The
DFIs consisted of Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP); National
Development Finance Corporation (NDFC); and Pakistan Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation (PICIC).



3
IDBP and UBL could not meet the IIC-III's eligibility criteria and never
participated in the project. IDBP's and UBL's financial performances
deteriorated due to frequent changes in the management, lack of effective
monitoring and supervision of sub-projects, and large non-performing loan
portfolio. The UBL was not in compliance with the eligibility criteria under
IIC-III due to its large non-performing loan financed under the second IIC.
IDBP was also in violation of basic financial covenants under the previous IIC
projects and did not meet the eligibility criteria such as implementation of
business diversification program. It suffered from lack of effective top
management and external interferences in the credit process which forced IDBP
into imprudent banking practices. As a result, its infected asset portfolio
rose, collection ratio fell and its liquidity situation deteriorated.
8.           Until 1992, the five PFIs were in compliance with the eligibility
criteria under the project. During period 1993-94, a large number of sub-
projects faced liquidity problem; therefore, number of arrears grew and PFIs
recovery rate generally deteriorated. The PFIs collection ratio in 1993 and
1994 fell below minimum required 80% under this project. Even MCB, which had
perfect records of recovery of its IIC loans until 1993, had arrears in three
out of four sub-loans financed under IIC-III. MCB's collection ratio fell
below 40's during 1993-94 and that for HBL drop from 909 in 1992 to 75% in
1994. The systematic deterioration in the PFIs' portfolio seemed to be partly
because of slow and weak economic recovery in the OECD countries in early
1930s and accompanying recession in Pakistan economy in 1992-1993 which led to
sluggish industrial investment activities in particular in the textile
industry (para. 16). The textile sector as a whole faced the twin problems of
liquidity and viability which negatively affected Pakistan's export
performaLce and its foreign exchange earnings.
9.           The PFIs loan portfolio of IIC-III was highly concentrated in the
textiles, reflecting the global textile booms in late 1980s and early 1990s.
Of the total commitments (about US$ 138 million), 85% was allocated to 28
textile industries (of which 28% was for 9 spinning projects); 8.8% to 5 sugar
mills and one rice processing; and only 6.2% to 3 electronics and engineering
a.ndustrles (Annexes I to V). HBL played the leading role in credit lending
under IC-ILII project. It approved 12 sub-loans (10 to textile sector) under
IIC-III for the amount of US$ 52.6 million (35.5% of loan amount). MCB
allocatel US$ 15.2 million (10.2% of total loan amount) to 4 textile
industries. It was the first time for NBP to participate in the Bank
operations. This bank made only one large loan for establishment of a
spinning project amounting to US$ 7.1 million (4.7% of total loan amount).
PICIC approved 12 sub-loans (8 for textile projects) amounting to about US$
34.0 million (23.0% of loan amount). NDFC financed 8 sub-projects (5 in
textiles) for a total amount of US$ 28.8 million (19.4% of loan amount).
10.          In order to rehabilitate and revive the sick industrial units and
help the financial institutions recover their loans, the GOP introduced a
number ;f measures in 1994-1995. In November 1994, the Government formed a
Sick Unit Committee to review the situation and find remedial solutions. The
State Bank of Pakistan (SEP) introduced general relaxations in the prudential
regulations during 1994-95 with regards to the sick units. In October 1995,
the GOP introduced a 17-Point Relief Package for textile industries.
Following this incentive package, many banks and DFIs with high exposure in
the textile sector, rescheduled their problem loans at concessional terms and
in some cases allowed up to two years moratorium in payments of dues. The
PFIs reviewed the status of each of the financed sub-projects under IIC-III
and, depending on the extent of their problems and difficulties, provided
relief accordingly. With good cotton crops in 1995 and stability of yarn
prices, the textile industrv may come out of the crisis within next two years.
Cash generations from the sub-projects during this period is expected to
improvre the.Lr profitability and debt servicing capabilities.



4
11.         Sub-projects Performance -  All the approved sub-projects are
currently operating. These projects generated about 8,200 jobs in the
industrial sector (Annex VI). Of total 37 financed sub-projects, 28 were in
textiles sub-sectors, 26 were new investments, and 20 were mainly export
oriented. Twenty sub-projects fell into arrears during 1993-94 and have been
overdue in their debt servicing. During the course of 1994-95, 19 sub-loans
were rescheduled.
12.         Implementation of the IDA Credit Component - As indicated above,
the project also included an IDA credit of US$ 2.0 million equivalent divided
into five sub-components: (i) organization and system studies; (ii) training
and necessary equipments; (iii) sub-sector studies; (iv) programs aimed at
strengthening the capabilities of the Corporate Law Authority (CLA); and (v)
activities to support the financial sector reforms envisaged by GOP. Except
for item (ii), the IDA credit fund was not used as proposed by SAR. The TA
funds were only utilized for training and system improvement by HBL, PICIC,
and NDFC. The Bankers Equity Limited (BEL), one of the development banks,
also had access to the TA fund for staff training (Annex VII). Although, in
general, the training programs proved to be useful (in particular for BEL) and
well appreciated by the beneficiaries, there was not a systematic and
formalized procedure for selection of trainees and for their evaluation after
the training program. Most of the fund was used for sending PFIs, staff to
international seminars and foreign training on an ad hoc basis without a long-
term plan for institution building, which was largely due to lack of
incentives on the part of PFIs. The impact of the TA component was limited.
About 87 percent of the TA fund was utilized and a balance of about US$
267,000 was cancelled. The credit was closed as originally scheduled on June
30, 1994.
13.         Capital Market Development - A major factor that restricted the
development of capital market was very limited liquidity in the market due to
the limited availability of high quality stocks and reluctance of good
companies to go public. The project aimed at increasing availability of
equity finance and non-bank long-term resources through the development of a
more efficient stock market. TA on strengthening of the capital market
complemented and expanded the Bank's assistance under the previous projects
and was timely. Bank had a major role in the development and growth of the
capital market in Pakistan. In connection with the Second IIC project
(approved in 1986), GOP took a number of concrete measures to improve the
capital market, including: (i) reduction in corporate tax rate for listed
companies from 50 percent to 40 percent; (ii) exemption of income tax on
dividend paid by the listed companies; (iii) allowing private investment
finance companies to perform all banking functions except deposit taking; (iv)
introduction of bearer bonds in foreign and local currency to attract "black
money" and mobilize additional resources; and (v) assisting the Karachi Stock
exchange (KSE) and Lahore Stock Exchange (LSE) to improve their operations.
In order to further accelerate the development of the capital market, IIC-III
proposed additional measures; discussed below.
14.         First, to ensure a sound capital structure and strong commitment
from sponsors, the project required that the debt:equity ratio of sub-projects
financed under this loan not to exceed 60:40 and that the Bridge Loans be
considered as debt. The government agreed to issue guidelines (by June 30,
1989) on bridge loans and enforce it uniformly to all the financial
institutions. Second, to increase the number of participants in the stock
markets, the project proposed to allow the financial institutions and
investment corporations become members of the KSE. It was also proposed that
the underwriting fees be freely negotiated between the sponsors and
underwriters. Third, to increase the distribution network for shares in the
country, it was recommended that commercial banks to perform trust functions
on behalf of their clients. Fourth, in order to provide incentives to the
companies to seek listing in stock markets, it was recommended that the
pricing of new issues in the equity market be left completely to market



5
participants rather than controlled by the Controller Qf Capital Issues.
Fifth, to increase resources for equity finance, the project proposed to allow
the corporate sector to issue Participation Terms Certificates directly to the
public.
15.         The objective of accelerating the growth of equity market through
necessary policy changes was, for the most part, achieved. The government
implemented all the measures except for the opening up of the stock exchange
because of reluctance of the KSE to expand its membership. In 1990, the KSE
agreed to amend its Article of Association to only allow the financial
institutions buy membership from the existing members. The underwriting fees
are freely determined between the underwriters and sponsors; and it is
normally not more than 51 of total amount underwritten and taken-up. The KSE
experienced a dramatic growth since 1989. The number of listed companies grew
from 440 in 1989 to over 720 in 1994 and market capitalization rose from US$
2.5 billion in 1989 to about US$ 12.3 billion in 1994. Most financial
institutions are involved in the securities business. In February 1990, the
government reversed its earlier decision on the definition of bridge loans and
issued a circular allowing a higher debt:equity ratio of 70:30 for projects
promoted by new comers. However, since there was a high correlation between
the failure of sub-projects and high leverage, Bank stressed concern over this
decision and requested the GOP to restrict the use of the bridge loan and to
subject all investment projects to the same rule.  In general, the GOP
requires a debt:equity ratio of 60:40; however, in certain cases and for
incentive schemes, it relaxes this requirement and allow for higher
debt:equity ratios.
C.  Manor Factors Affecting The Prolect
16.         Factors generally not subject to Government control:  In early
1990s, a combination of adverse domestic and external factors resulted in
decline in Pakistan growth rate, continuation of inflationary pressure, and
weak balance of payments. In 1992-1993, the Pakistan's GDP growth rate
declined to the level of its population growth mainly due to a sharp decline
in agricultural output. Adverse whether condition and viral attack on the
cotton crop resulted in decline in wheat harvest and cotton crop failure. Bad
cotton crop for three consecutive years (1992, 1993, and 1994) resulted in
critical shortage of cotton and more than 100% increase in prices during this
period and adversely affected the textile industry which accounts for about
60% of the exports value. In addition, economic recession in major markets
for Pakistan exports and intensified competition by its trading competitors
were added to the domestic problems the country was facing. The 1993-94
political turbulence in the country and later the law and order situation in
Sind Province adversely affected economic activities and more so the
performance of industrial sector. The problem was further aggravated by the
squeeze on the working capital lending by banks to textile sector. As a
result, most of the industrial units and in particular those in textile sub-
sectors of spinning and weaving which were established between 1989-1992 have
been badly hit. Many projects faced liquidity problem and had losses or
closed down. Several sub-loans financed under the IIC-III project were
cancelled during 1992-93 (para. 6).
17.         Factors generally subject to implementing agencies:  Frequently
changing Government policies has made investment planning and project
financing difficult for the business community in Pakistan. Profitability of
some financed sub-projects was adversely affected due to changes in government
policies which were not accounted for in their feasibility study and financial
planning. Under IIC-III, it was proposed that in order to modernize and
improve the efficiency of the textile sector, excessive financing of textile
projects in spinning and creating excess capacity in spinning must be avoided
and that the priorities should be given to financing fully integrated textile
mills and to encouraging foreign investment through joint venture. It was



6
also proposed that the PFIs need to diversify their portfolio to increase
investment in fully integrated mills of weaving and finishing houses and non-
textile industries. Failure of the PFIs to diversify their loan portfolio
accordingly, contributed to deterioration of their asset quality at the time
of cotton crises. The global textiles boom in late 1980s and great demand in
the export markets for Pakistan's yarn which had, at the time, the price
advantage (Pakistan's cotton prices were 20% lower compare to international
prices) were the major factors in heavy investment in the sector in late 1980s
to early 1990s. When this advantage was lost due to cotton crop failure, high
loan portfolio concentration in the textiles and in particular in spinning
(mostly producing low-count yarn for which domestic cotton is best suited)
contributed to the deterioration of PFIs' balance sheet in the 1990s.
18.         Other Factors: Delays in opening the Letters of Credit (L/Cs) by
some sub-borrowers and problems with shipment/delivery schedule of goods by
the suppliers contributed to slow implementation of some sub-projects and low
disbursements rate. In May 1995, the GOP requested the Bank to grant six
months extension for one of the PICIC's financed sub-projects in order to
provide sponsors with adequate time to complete disbursements. In June 1995,
the Bank approved a partial extension and established December 31, 1995 as the
closing date for this sub-project on the ground that this company had already
opened the L/Cs and Bank issued four Special Commitments against these L/Cs.
All the other project components and sub-loans approved by the PFIs closed on
June 30, 1995.
D. Prolect Sustainability
19.         Internal operational efficiency of the financial institutions
(effective management, successful loan recovery, profitability, etc.) and
prudent financial system within which the financial institutions operate are
among the key factors in achieving sustainability of the financial
intermediation operations that are designed to support the industrial sector
operations. In addition, establishment and enforcement of effective and
consistent institutional, regulatory, and legal framework is conducive to
development and efficient operations of the financial institutions and the
private sector. In the context of achieving a strong financial system that
can efficiently allocate market-based credit to the growth sector, the Bank
has been assisting GOP through Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL,
prepared in parallel with IIC-III and was approved in 1989) and several
successive intermediation operations with objectives of improving the
industrial and financial sector policy (paras. 29-30; Table 2). Despite
improvement in a number of areas (strengthening and enforcing prudential
regulations, privatization of two state commercial banks in 1991, broadening
supervision role of the SBP, opening up the capital market, etc.), there are
still deficiencies in the operations of financial sector and more need to be
done. The benefits from these Bank financed projects are likely to be
unsustainable in the long-term without improving the efficiency in the
financial sector and strengthening the institutional framework.
20.         In Pakistan, the loan portfolio of the financial system has
generally been deteriorating partly due to internal deficiency of the
financial institutions, poor legal and regulatory framework, and weaknesses in
the financial system. Pakistan has had six successive industrial investment
credits, with mutually reinforcing objectives, financed by the Bank (some of
which co-financed by ADB and other donors) in the period 1984-91. The
evidence is that the financial institutions remain dependent on the GOP and
multilateral donors for funding their long-term development credit to the
growing private sector. Insufficient access to term-savings for long-term
development investments and limited capital markets made it difficult for
private entrepreneurs to obtain domestically funded term loans.



7
21.         Another key factor in achieving the project sustainability is the
success of sub-borrowers with respect to their profitability and rate of
return. The PFIs did not effectively follow-up the sub-projects' performance
after the sub-loans were made and did not have any information on sub-
projects' ex-post economic rate of return. Therefore, it is difficult to
precisely and systematically assess the sustainability of benefits of the sub-
projects. Despite difficult political and economic conditions in Pakistan,
all the sub-projects financed under IIC-III are still in operation.
Considering employment generation by sub-projects and expected satisfactory
performance (para. 10) in coming years, as well as strong demand for long-term
investment financing by the private manufacturing industries, expected net
benefit of sub-projects is likely to be sustainable if the GOP further improve
the legal, regulatory, and institutional framework for the private sector
development.
22.         The long-term sustainability of the sub-projects is also dependent
on their sound capital structure which can be achieved through encouraging a
higher share of equity participation and restricting use of bridge loans.
There has been a strong correlation between high leverage and project failure
in Pakistan. Considering the vulnerability of the banking system, any policy
that could add to higher portfolio risks of the financial institutions should
be avoided and GOP should discourage excessive reliance on debt finance by
e.g. accounting bridge loan as debt and not equity.
E. Bank Performance
23.         Bank's performance in identifying and designing the IIC-III
project was timely and in line with the GOP's development objectives under the
seventh five year plan (1988-93) and the Bank's country assistance strategy
(paras. 2-3). The project was identified during the supervision of the first
two IIC projects and the preparation and review of the Bank's Financial Sector
Report which provided a sound basis for continued dialogue between Bank and
GOP.
24.         The TA programs and the sector issues that were addressed by the
project, were also in line with the IMF programs and ADB assistance strategy.
The SAR was prepared by a group of competent economists and financial analysts
and completed as planned. SAR, however, lacked a clear and detailed
discussion on the TA programs (including training plans) and did not provide
any implementation plan or terms of reference for the said TA programs. The
project did not adequately address the need for a centralized unit/agency for
monitoring, supervision and reporting of the project, in particular for the
IDA Credit component.
25.         In general, the Bank supervision of IIC-III was inadequate.  Bank
sent only four supervision missions, with the first two within 9 months after
the effectiveness and the last two during the last five years of the project
life. Given the problem of increasing arrears and slow sub-project
implementation, lack of effective and adequate supervision was a crucial
issue. Bank should have emphasized the importance of careful sub-project
approvals by the PFIs (given their portfolio concentration in textiles) and
should have also closely monitored the PFIs asset quality and sub-projects
performance during the project implementation. No ICR mission was carried out
before the project closing because of political/civil problems in the country,
in particular in the Sind Province. As this problem persisted, the Bank sent
the ICR mission to Punjab (Lahore, Islamabad) in January 1996 in order to
complete the ICR.



8
F. Borrower Performance
26.         The GOP collaborated well with the Bank in the preparation and
effectiveness of this project; however, there were deficiencies in the
implementation phase. The GOP's performance in meeting the agreed measures
for the development of equity market was, overall, satisfactory (para. 15).
27.         While the five PFIs could meet the project eligibility criteria
under this project and were successful in the commitment of funds to the
private manufacturing sector they, in general, remain financially weak and
could not maintain the eligibility criteria during 1993-94. In addition to
factors mentioned in paras. 16-18, several other factors had adversely
affected the PFIs financial performance and their loan recovery, including:
(i) political interference in managerial appointments and credit decision of
PFIs; (ii) lack of effective sub-project supervision and monitoring by PFIs;
(iii) absence of a transparent and consistent accounting and auditing
standards which provides lenders with reliable and timely information on the
borrower's creditworthiness; and (iv) lack of effective legal framework that
ensures speedy and impartial settlement of claims. The GOP and the PFIs were
continuously late in submitting the audit reports.
G. Assessment of Outcome
28.         Smooth loan commitment and disbursement resulted in achievement of
development objectives in some areas (capital formation and employment
generation in the private sector). However, given: (i) the weaknesses in the
financial sector and regulatory environment in which the PFIs operate; (ii)
lack of autonomy and accountability in PFIs; (iii) poor performance of the
PFIs in their loan recovery; and (iv) deficiencies in the project supervision
by GOP and Bank, the overall outcome of the project (including that of the TA
component) was unsatisfactory.
H. Follow-up/Future Operations
29.         The broader issues affecting the financial sector was addressed
under the FSAL which was prepared in parallel with the IIC-III project. The
reforms supported by FSAL included: improvement in the government debt
management, reducing segmentation by raising concessional interest rates and
limiting directed credit schemes, strengthening the banking system by
strengthening prudential regulation and institution building, and development
of capital markets. In order to continue and expand the reform process
started under FSAL and support the GOP's strategy for macroeconomic and
financial sector reforms, the Board approved two projects following IIC-III.
In April 1991, the Bank approved a Microenterprise project (Ln. 3318-PAK) with
the objective of further supporting the Government on its continued efforts to
strengthen the Pakistan's financial system and link it to the productive
sectors of the economy. The main objective of the project was to increase
productivity, growth, and employment in the microenterprise sector by
providing credit investment through the bank and non-bank financial
institutions and linking them with larger businesses.
30.         The recently approved Financial Sector Deepening and
Intermediation Project (FSDIP; Ln. 3808-PAK), was built on experiences gained
under previous loans and credits and focuses on maintaining the momentum for
improving and deepening the financial system and promoting new financial
instruments; strengthening institutional, regulatory, and legal framework; and
completing key reforms in privatization. The GOP is committed to continue to
reform the financial and industrial policy under this project (Appendix A).
The medium term Bank Group's assistance strategy includes, among other things,
establishing a more competitive environment for private sector investment and
accelerated growth. To this end, the Bank Group will continue to help



9
Pakistan to further broaden financial instruments available to private
businesses, to provide insurance coverage for private financial institutions,
and to improve financial intermediation for micro and small-scale enterprises
through a micro credit operation.
I. Lessons Learned
31.         In retrospective, the main lessons learned are summarized below:
I.    Success and sustainability of Bank financial/industrial intermediation
operations both in term-lending and institutional development depends,
to a large extent, on the following factors.
o     The Government's implementation of elements of a prudent financial
sector policy and establishing and enforcing proper institutional,
regulatory, and incentive framework for the financial institutions
and the private sector.
o     The financial viability of the credit institutions and their
internal operational efficiency such as strong management,
effective loan recovery, and systematic appraisal and timely
supervision of financed sub-projects. In Pakistan, the quality of
PFIs portfolio deteriorated partly due to political interferences
and frequent changes in their top management. As long as the risk
of Government's intervention in the internal operations of
financial institutions exist, the Bank should not channel its
intermediation loans through the Government owned financial
institutions.
o     Sound capital structure of sub-projects, their profitability, and
satisfactory rate of return.
II.   Effective and timely monitoring and supervision of the project by both
Bank and the borrower is an integral to the success of the project.
Considering the shortcomings in the financial system (explained above)
and prevailing political and economic difficulties in the country, the
Bank should have sent more supervision missions and provided adequate
staffing for close monitoring of the participating credit institutions
and the financed sub-projects.
III. Under this project, design and objectives of the TA were not specific
and targeted; most of the credit fund was used for ad hoc training
programs without a long-term plan for institution building and
therefore, had little impact. Clear objectives, precise terms of
reference, the link to the project objectives, and potential benefits of
the TA should be identified at SAR stage. The supporting TA for
strengthening institutional capabilities (training, system improvement,
etc.) should be selected in a more systematic and formalized procedure
and should be within the institutions' human resource development
objective. Bank needs to strengthen the emphasis of its supervision
efforts for the TA activities. The Government needs to strengthen its
monitoring, evaluation procedures, documenting, and reporting of the TA
programs funded by the multinational organizations and other donors and
learn from the implementation experience of.the past projects in order
to improve upon the design of the TA for new projects.
IV.   The project did not establish an adequate counterpart responsible for
coordination and supervision of the project. The quality of project
supervision and administration could be improved by either developing a
strong monitoring and reporting system in the Government or selecting an
Apex agency which commonly used in other Bank financed projects.



10
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of Obiectives              Substantial          Partial           Ne2lipible          Not Anplicable
Macroeconomic policies                    ( )                ( )                ( )                  . )
Sector policies                           ( )                ( )                ( )                    U)
Capital Market Development              For the (5/)         ( )                ( )                     ( )
most part
Financial objectives                      ( )               ('1)                ( )                     ( )
Institutional development                 ( )                                   ( )                    ( )
Physical objectives                       ( )                ( )                ( )                    U)
Poverty reduction                         ( )                ( )                ( )                    (,1)
Gender concerns                           ( )                ( )                ( )                    ('J)
Other social objectives                   ()                 ()                 ()                     ('I)
Environmental objectives                  ( )                ( )                ( )                    U)
Public sector management                  ( )                ( )                (si)                    ( )
Private sector development                U)                 ( )                ( )                    ( )
Other- Employment Generation              U)                 ()                 ()                      ()
B.  Project Sustainabilitv                     Likelv                   Unlikelv                 Uncertain
O)                        O)                       (Vi)
Hi2hIy
C.  Bank performance                        Satisfactorv              Satisfactorv                Deficient
Identification                              ( )                       U)                        (
Preparation assistance                      ( )                       (v)                       ( )
Appraisal                                   ()                        (N)                       ()
Supervision                                 ( )                       ( )                      ('i)
Highly
D.  Borrower Derformance                    Satisfactorv              Satisfactorv               Deficient
Preparation                                 ( )                      (N)                        ( )
Implementation                              ( )                       ( )                      ('I)
Covenant Compliance                         ( )                 Up to 1992 U)             After 1992 (N)
Operation (if applicable)                   ( )                       ( )                       ( )
Hi2hiv                                                          Hi2hIv
E.  Assessment of outcome               Satisfactory       Satisfactorv      Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
()                ()                 (s')                       ()



11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                         Purpose                          Year of     Status
l ______________________ I ___________________________________________________ I approvalj ____________v
Preceding Operations
1.  First Industrial  To help GOP improve the credit delivery system    02/02/84  Closed on
Investment         and focus on the institutional restructuring of                12/31/90
Credit (IIC-I)    PICIC and IDBP.
Loan 2830/Credit
1439-PAK
2.  Second             To assist GOP develop the capital market,           01/07/86  Closed on
Industrial         improve credit delivery for industrial finance                 12/31/92
Investment         and continue institution building for PFIs.
Credit (IIC II)
Loan 2648/Credit
1646-PAK
3.  Second Small       To promote investments in promising SSI sub-        06/14/84  Closed on
Scale Industry    sectors and improve productivity of existing SSI                06/30/92
Project (SSI II)  units.
Credit 1499-PAK
4.  Third Small        To provide SSI financing, expand PCIs' SSI          06/16/87  Closed on
Scale industry    funding capabilities, and develop export                        12/31/95
Project (SSI       marketir.g system.
III) Loan 2839-
PAK
Following Operations
1.  Financial Sector  To assist the GOP in financial sector reforms:    03/28/89  Closed on
Adjustment Loan   gearing credit allocation to market signals,                    06/30/92
(FSAL) Loan        improving health and efficiency of banking
3029-PAK           system, and creating more efficient Government
debt system.
2.  Microenterprise   To provide funds to the microenterprises; to         04/23/91  Closing
Project            strengthen the capacity of the PCIs; to catalyze              date is
Loan 3318-PAK      NGOs' financial and technical support services                06/30/98
for microenterprises; to provide TA to
microenterprises; and to help develop businesses
owned by womer.
3.  Financial Sector  To orovide term finance for all economic             11/15/94  Closing
Deepening and      activities; to continue and expand the reform                 date is
Intermediation    process started under FSAL; and to support GOP's               12/31/99
Project (FSDIP)   strategy for macroeconomic and financial sector
Loan 3808-PAK      reform.



12
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                 Date planned               Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification                         January 1988                January 1988
Preparation                            February 1988               February 1988
Appraisal                              July 1988                   July 1988
Negotiations                           November 1988               November 1988
Letter of development policy (if    NA                             NA
applicable)                                                                                  l
Board presentation                     January 1989                January 1989
Signing                                February 1989               February 1989
Effectiveness                          May 1989                    June 1989
First tranche release (if              NA                          NA
applicable)
Midterm review (if applicable)         NA                          NA
Second (and third) trance release   NA                             NA
(if applicable)
Project completion                     December 1993               December 1994 1/
Loan/Credit closing                    June 1994 2/                December, 1995 3/
NA = Not Applicable
1/ As project closing date was extended, two sub-projects were approved after the
planned completion date.
2/ IDA Credit component was closed as scheduled on June 30, 1994.
3/ Closing date for the Bank loan component was extended twice to June 30, 1995 and
later to December 31, 1995.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY89  |FY90       FY91     FY92      FY93     FY94  |FY95       FY96
Appraisal             5.0      35.0    100.0    140.0    150.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
estimate 1/                                                                                   l
Actual 1/             0.0      6.9       36.8    92.2    130.2    136.2    136.5    139.8
Actual as % of        0.0      19.7     36.8      65.8     86.8
estimate
1/ Sum of loan and credit components.
Date of final disbursement: For Cr. 1982 was on August 30, 1993;
For Ln. 3019 was on January 22, 1996



13
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I.  Key implementation
indicators in
SAR/President's Report             Estimated                       Actual
1. Some Measures for          1. See para. 14 for           1. See para. 15 for
development of the equity    measures stated in SAR;        achievement of the
market.                       in particular setting         objective.
debt/equity at 60:40
2. Sub-project financing;    2. Utilization of a total   2. 93% of loan was
and Disbursements             of US$ 148 million for        disbursed (see table 4);
increasing capital and       employment impact was high
employment in the private   with 8,200 jobs created.
sector.
3. PFIs' financial            3. Human resource             3. The objective was
performance in credit         development; improving        partially achieved;
lending and compliance        the credit lending and        however, PFIs' arrears
with the project's            loan portfolio of the         rose in 1993-94; their
eligibility criteria          PFIs; compliance with the   financial performance
including collection          financial covenants (Min.   weakened; PFIs' loan
performance                   require recovery rate was   recovery rate dropped
80%)                         below 809 (paras. 7 & 8).
4. Sub-projects               4. Adequate number of         4. Satisfactorily
performance                   viable sub-projects to be   achieved.  See Annexes I
materialized in order to    to V
fully utilize the credit
fund.
5. Sectoral distribution      5. SAR proposed a prudent   5. Partiallv achieved. See
of sub-loans                  exposure to textile sub-    paras. 9 and 17.
sectors; priority was to
be given to BMR for
existing spinning; fully
integrated textile mills;
independent weaving,
______________   finishing  mills.
II. Modified indicators          Not Applicable (NA)                     NA
(if applicable)                                                     _.-
III. Other indicators (if                  NA                            NA
applicable)



14
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key operating
indicators in
SAR/President's Report             Estimated                      Actual
1. DFIs business              1. PICIC's and IDBP's        1. Only PICIC implemented
diversification               business diversification    the elements of the agreed
to provide their clients    criteria; It expanded its
with more financial          activities by entering
services in order to         into deposit mobilization,
facilitate project           trade financing, merchant
implementation.              banking, foreign currency
deposit mobilization, etc.
2. PFIs' Institutional        2. Training; equipments;    2. Had limited impact. TA
Development.                  organization and system      was only used for some
studies.                     training programs and
purchase of computers.
See para. 12.
II.Modified indicators (if                NA                            NA
applicable)
III.Modified indicators                   NA                            NA
for future operation (if
applicable)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
No specific study was carried out under this project



15
Table 8A: Project Costs
l___________________  Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Item         Local    Foreign   Total    Local          Foreign    Total
Costs    Costs                Costs       Costs
1. Sub-projects    148        148        296       135.0       138.1       273.1
Investment
2. Technical
Assistance                   2          2                     1.7         1.7
Total               148      150        298       135.0       139.8       274.8
Table 8B: Project Financing
l____________________  Appraisal estimate (US$M)   Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign  Total    Local         Foreign    Total
Source          Costs   Costs                 Costs      Costs
IBRD loan and                  I -   150.0  150.0    -         139.8       139.8
IDA credit
Cofinancing                 -              -         -          -           -
Institution
(ADB)
Sponsors (local)    148.0                148.0    135.0                    135.0
|Domestic                                                                   _
contribution
(GOSL)
TOTAL               148.0     150.0     298.0    135.0        139.8      274.8
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Ex-post data regarding FRR and ERR are not available for sub-projects.



16
Table 10: Status of Main Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section   Covenant         Present    Original        Revised
type          status      fulfillment   fulfillment                      Description of covenant                          Comments
date           date
Loan         4.01       Accounting    C           throughout                      PFIs to maintain procedures and records adequate
Audit                     the project                    to nmonitor the progress of the project.
life
Loan         4.02(a)   Accounting    CP; CD       6 months                       PFIs to have the records of financial statements            There were
4.02(b)    Audit                     after each                     and that for special account in accordance with             delays.
FY                             sound accounting practice applied by independent
auditors; submitted to the Bank within 6 months
after each FY.
Loan        4.04        Financial     CP          throughout                     DFIs to maintain debt/equity ratio of not more              OFIs fiLancial
the project                    than 7:1                                                   performance
life                                                                                      atarted to
deteriorate in
1993-94
Loan        4.05        Financial     CP          throughout                     DFIs to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of           DFIs financial
the project                    not less than 1.2                                          performance
life                                                                                      started to
deteriorate in
1993-94
Loan        4.06        Financial     CP          June 30,                       Government to issue, no later than Julrle 30, 1989,         But the decision
1989                           instructions requirinig all finiancial institutions        was reversed in
to include bridge loans in the definition of debt.    Feb. 1990 (see
._____________  ____________________________________________   para. i5)
Loan         4.07       Financial      CD; CP     December                       Government t:o take measures, nio later than                See para. 15
31, 1989                       December 31, 1989, opening the membership of the
KSE to financial institutions including private
investment finance companies
Credit       4.01       Accounting    CP          6 months                       Government to maintain records and accounts of the    There were
Auidit                    after each                     credit audited in accordance with sound accouLnting    continuous delays
FY                             practices and sLubmitted to IDA no larer than 6
m.onthis aftei each FY.
C  = Complied with
CD = Complied with after delay
CP = Complied with partially



17
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There were no incidence of non compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of              Planned 1/              Revised 1/                  Actual 1/
project cycle        Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$           Weeks         US$ (000)
Through appraisal      NA         NA           NA          NA          NA               NA
Appraisal-Board        110.0       NA           74.0       NA            73.8            NA
Board-effectiveness   NA          NA           NA          NA          NA               NA
Supervision             84.5      NA           107.2       NA            83.2            NA
Completion              12.0      NA            12.0       NA             9.0             17.0
206.5      NA           193.2                   166.0            NA
TOTAL
1/ Consistent and complete information is not available.



18
Bank Resources:  Missions 1/
I 1    Performance rating
Stage of project        Month/    Number      Days    Specialized
cycle                   Year        of         in     staff skills    Implementation   Development    Types of
persons     field   represented        status          impact         problems
Through appraisal
Appraisal thlough
Board approval                                                                                           _-
Board approval througlh  NA        NA        NA
effectiveness
Supervision              10/1989     4          16      Financial      The rating has    The
03/1990     2         14      Economics      been                development
11/1992     2         11                      satisfactory       impact has
06/1993     1         06                      throughout the    also been
project            satisfactory
l________  ________ _  _______  ______________  supervision
Completion               01/1996     1         09      Economics/      Same as above      Same as
I         I         I Finance                           above
1/ The IIC- III missions were, in general, combined with those of other Bank's intermediation operations at that time.
No record is available as how the time/number of staff was split between the projects.  Therefore, time for
supervision missions, spent on the ITC-III was less than time indicated above.
May 30, 1996



19
Implementation Completion Report                              Annex I
Third Industrial Investment Credit
15-Mar-96
Sub-project Financinu - Habib Bank Limited
(In US Dollars)
Subporj.    Date     Amount    Increases/    Amount         Net        Amount
Sub-projects above free limit ($ 3 m)  No.   Authorized  Authorized   Decreases   Cancelled   Commilted   Disbursed
Total                                        YY/MM/DD   66,739,421    1,352,710   17,596,35    50495,775   50.4975
United Technologies Ltd.             Al-01   89/10/11      6,567,965      14,873                6,582,838    6,582,838
Ghazi Fabrics                        A1-02   89/11/07      6,000,000     520,000      30,998    6,489,002    6,489,002
lhsan Sons Ltd.                      A1-03   89/11/28      3,067.000                 752,785    2,314,215    2,314,215
Al-Abbas Spinning                    A1-04   90/01/22      6,000,000                6,000,000
Ayaz Textile                         Al-05   90/05/02      5,657,891                  82,231    5,575,660    5,575.660
Rabia Textile                        A1-06   90/05/02      6,000,000                6,000,000
Atzal Textile Mills                  A1-07   90/06/01      4,692,608                4,692,608
QualityTextileMillsLtd.              A1-08   90/07/06      6,000,000     197,791                6,197,791    6,197,791
Idrees Textile Mills Ltd.            A1-09   90/07/06      6,095,000     157,453                6,252,453    6,252,453
Tri Star Polyester                   Al-10   90/07/13      6,413,000     317,593                6,730,593    6,730,593
Service Fabrics Ltd.                 Al-11   90/07/18      5,553,349                   4,811    5,548,538    5,548,538
Baig Spinning                        A1-12   91/05/21      4,692,608     145,000      32.923    4,804,685    4,804,685
Sub-projects below tree limit ($ 3 m)
Total                                        YY/MM/DD    1.903,369       199106                 2,15    2,102,475
Orient Rice Mills                    Bi -01   89/11/08      642,314       74,318                  716,632     716,632
Evernew Knitwear                     B1-02   90/05/04       894,425      106,407                1,000,832    1,000,832
Al-AbbasFabricsLid.                  B31-03   90/06/01      366,630       18,381                  385,0t1     385,011
Total A and B Sub -projects                                8,42, 7906 586    796,36   52598250   52509



20
Implementation Completion Report                                  Annex l!
Third Industrial Investment Credit
Sub-proiect Financinq - Muslim  Commercial Bank                               15-Mar-96
(In US Dollars)
Subporj.     Date       Amount    Increases/    Amount            Net        Amount
Sub-projects above free limit ($ 2 m)     No.    Authorized   Authorized    Decreases    Cancelled    Committed    Disbursed
Total                                           YYtMM/DD       25.604,000      868352   12,128,135   14,344,217   14,344,217
Sac Group Industries                   A3-01   89/11/08         5,547,000      614,000    1,181,173    4,979,827    4,979,827
Tawakkal Fabric Industries             A3-02   90102/01         5,941,000                 5,941,000
Reliance Weaving                       A3-03   90/05/02         6,000,000                   100,962    5,899,038    5,899,038
Mehmood Textile Mills                  A3-04   92/07/27         3,211,000      254,352                  3,465,352    3,465,352
Multan Textile Mills Project           A3-05   93/03/24         4,905,000                 4,905,000
Sub-projects below free limit ($ 2 m)
Total                                           YY/MM/DD          799,00        42,731        1,538      840193       840193
Shahpur Textile Mills                  B3-01   90/01/08           799,000       42,731        1,538      840,193      840,193
Total A and B Sub-projects                                     26,403,000      911,083   12,19.67    15,184410   15,184,410



2]1
Implementation Completion Report                                       Annex Ill
Third Industrial Investment Credit
Sub-project Financing - National Bank of Pakistan                                   15-Mar-96
(In US Dollars)
Subporj.     Dale         Amount       Increases/    Amount           Net         Amount
No.    Authorized    Authorized    Decreases    Cancelled    Committed    Disbursed
Total                                              YY/MMIDD          6,000,00      1,085,406                   708540        7,085.406
Samin Textile                             A4-01    89/11/28         6,000,000      1,085,406                   7,085,406     7,085,406



Implementation Completion Report                               Annex IV
Third Industrial Investment Credit                               15-Mar-96
Sub-proiect Financing - Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
(In US Dollars)
Subporj.    Date       Amount    Increases/    Amount         Net        Amount
Sub-projects above free limit ($ 3 m)  No.    Authorized   Authorized   Decreases   Cancelled   Committed    Disbursed
Total                                        YY/MM/DD       36,824.000    2,118,230    7,740.896   31201334   31,201,334
Khairpur Sugar Mills                 A6-01   90/07/24        4,512,000     400,000      11,144    4,900,856    4,900.856
Crescent Textile Mills               A6-02   90107125        5,834,000     788,000     588,037    6,033,963    6,033,963
Jan Mohammad                         A6-03   90/07/25        7,548,000                  23,693    7,524,307    7,524,307
Gulistan Textile Mills               A6-04   90/07/25        2,320,000     250,000      77,512    2,492,488    2,492,488
Knitters                             A6-05   90/07/25         284,000                  284,000
Shams Textile Mills                  A6-06   91/06/20        5,200,000     680,230     590,646    5,289,584    5,289,584
Amna Bilal Textiles                  A6-07   92/08/12         300,000                       38      299,962     299,962
Legler-Nafis Denim Mills             A6-08   93/01/27        1,500,000                            1,500,000    1,500,000
United Finishing Mills               A6-09   93/09/30        3,326,000                 165,826    3,160,174    3,160,174
Fazal Weaving Mills Ltd.             A6-10   94/03/09        6,000,000                6,000,000
Sub-projects below free limit ($ 3 m)
Total                                        YYIMM/DD        6,161,55                 3.405,23    2,756,32     2,756,327
Shakarganj Miils Ltd.                B6-01   90/07/24        2,177,000                1,412,401     764,599     764,599
Pak Elektron Ltd.                    B6-02   90/07/24        1,158,000                 350,019      807,981     807,981
Premier Sugar Mills                  B6-03   90/07/24        1,300,000                 628,997      671,003     671,003
Ideal Appliances (PVT) Ltd.          B6-04   93/07/28         750,400                  750,400           0            0
Bengal Fibre Industries Ltd.         B6-05   94/02/22         776,156                  263,413      512,743     512,743
Total A and B Sub-projects                                  42,98555     2,118,230   11,146.126   33,95760   33,957,661



23
Implementation Completion Report                                Annex V
Third Industrial Investment Credit                               15-Mar-96
Sub-project Financing - National Development Finance Corporation
(In US Dollars)
Subporj.    Date       Amount    Increases/    Amount          Net        Amount
Sub-projects above free limit ($ 3 m)   No.    Authorized   Authorized   Decreases    Cancelled    Committed    Disbursed
Total                                         YYIMM/DD       26.898,000     431,787      744,048   26.585.73    26,585,739
Reliance Textiles L[d.               A7-01   89/10/11         6,148,000      56.234       11,838    6,192,396    6,192,396
Chasma Sugar Mills                    A7-02   89/12121        4,657,000                   84,437    4,572,563    4,572,563
Gulshan Spinning Mills                A7-03   90/05/04        6,148,000     222,787                 6,370,787    6,370,787
Al-Qadir Textile Mills               A7-04   90/07/13         3,975,000     152,766       79,145    4,048,621    4,048,621
Kohinoor Textile                     A7-05   90/07/25         5,970,000                 568,628    5,401,372    5,401,372
Sub-projects below free limit ($ 3 m)
Total                                         YY/MM/DD        2,685,75      228,584      664.976    2249.358    2,248401
Amber Capacitors Ltd.                B7-01   89/08/31         1,148,650                   66,273    1,082,377    1,081,420
Venus Industries                     B7-02   90/01/16          566,000                   566,000           0
Faran Sugar Mills                     B7-03   90/01/19         405,100                    32,703     372,397      372,397
En-Em Industries Limited             B7-04   91/02/26          566,000      228,584                  794,584      794,584
Total A and B Sub-projects                                   29,583.750     660371    1,409,024   28,835,097   28,834140



24
Implementation Completion Report                          Annex VI
Third Industrial Investment Credit
1 5-Mar-96
Sub-projects' Performance
No. Sub-projects                     PFI           Sub-sector           New v.a.   Export impact  No. oa Jobs  Regular in D/S    Sub-loan
Name                                Existing   of sub-projects   Created   Ovetdue in D/S   Rescheduled
I United Technologies Ltd.        HBL  Electronics                     New    Export Oriented         105      Regular           No
2 Ghazi Fabrics                   HBL  Weaving                         New    Export Oriented         152      Regular           No
3 lhsan Sons Ltd.                 HBL  Textile Waste Processing        New    Export Oriented          49      Regular           No
4 Ayaz Textile                    IIBL  Weaving                        New    Export Oriented         110      Overdue           Yes
5 Quality Textile Mills Ltd.      HBL  Spinning                        New    Export Oriented         266      Overdue           Yes
6 Idrees Textile Mills Ltd.       HBL  Spinning                        New    Export Oriented         266      Overdue           Yes
7 Tri Star Polyester              HBL  Yarn                            New    Export Oriented         100      Overdue           Yes
8 Service Fabrics Ltd.            HBL  Weaving                       Expansion Export Oriented        202      Overdue           Yes
9 Baig Spinning                   HBL  Spinning                        MBR    Export Oriented         149      Overdue           Yes
10 Orient Rice Mills               HBL  Rice Processing                 New    Export Oriented          48      Overdue           No
11 Evernew Knitwear                HBL  Knitwear Garments               New    Local                   178      Overdue          Yes
12 Al-Abbas Fabrics Ltd.           HBL  Hosiery Dyeing/Bleaching        New    Local                    63      Regular           Yes
13 Sac Group Industries            MCB  Weaving                         New    Local                    76      Overdue          Yes
14 Reliance Weaving                MCB  Weaving                         New    Exporl Oriented         145      Overdue           Yes
15 Mehmood Textile Mills           MCB  Weaving                      Expansion Export Oriented          66      Regular           No
16 Shahpur Textile Mills           MCB  Spinning                     Expansion Export Oriented          20      Overdue           Yes
17 Samin Textile                   NBP  Weaving                         New    Export Oriented         139      Overdue           Yes
18 Reliance Textiles Ltd.         NDFC  Weaving                         New    Local/Export            500      Regular           No
19 Chashma Sugar Mills Ltd.       NDFC  Sugar Mills                     New    Local                   746      Regular           No
20 Gulshan Spinning Mills         NDFC  Spinning                        New    Local/Export            450      Regular           No
21 Al-Oadir Textile Mills         NDFC  Spinning                        New    Local/Export            515      Regular           No
22 Kohinour Textile                NDFC  Weaving                        New    Local/Export            244      Overdue           Yes
23 Amber Capacitors Ltd.          NDFC  Electronics                     New    Local                    87      Overdue           Yes
24 Faran Sugar Mills              NDFC  Sugar Mills                   Expansion Local                  800      Overdue           Yes
25 En-Em Industries Limited       NDFC  Textile Processing              New    Local/Export             90      Overdue           Yes
26 Khairpur Sugar Mills            PICIC  Sugar Mills                   New    Local                   675        N.A.            N.A.
27 Crescent Textile Mills          PICIC  Textile composite          Existing    Export Orierrted       t00     Regular           No
28 Jan Mohammad Textile Mills      PICIC  Weaving                       New    Local/Export            150      Overdue           Yes
29 Gulistan Textile Mills          PICIC  Spinning                   Expansion  Export Oriented        320      Overdue           No
30 Shams Textile Mills             PICIC  Textile composite          Expansion  Export Oriented        400      Overdue           Yes
31 Amna Bilal Textiles             PICIC  Dyeing/Finishing              New    Export Oriented          50      Overdue           Yes
32 Legler-Nafees Mills Ltd         PICIC  Textile composite             New    Export Oriented         600       Regular          No
33 United Finishing Mills          PICIC  Dyeing/Finishing              New    Export Oriented         268       Regular          No
34 Shakarganj Mills Ltd.           PICIC  Sugar Mills                Expansion  Local                  N.A.       N.A.            N.A.
35 Pak Elektron Ltd.              PICIC  Refrig/Air Cond.            Expansion  Local                   55       Regular          No
36 Premier Sugar Mills            PICIC  Sugar Mills                 Expansion  Local                  N.A.       N.A.            N.A.
37 Bengal Fibre Industries Ltd.    PICIC  Yarn                       Expansion  Import Subst.          N.A.      Regular          No



25
Implementation Completion Report                                     Annex VIl
Third Industrial Investment Credit
30-May-96
Technical Assistance - Under IDA Credit (1982-PAK)
(In SDR)
Amount        Amount           Net          Amount         Balance      Disbursed as
Authorized     Cancelled     Committed      Disbursed 2/  Un-Disbursed 3/   % of Total
Total 1/                  1,568,310       115.325       1,452,985      1.299.742       160.664            87%
Training for HBL           435,994         85,861        350,133        233,372        116,761            16%
Training for UBL           -              -
Training for MCB           -              -
Training for NDB           -              -
Training for IDBP          -              -
Training for PICIC         255,042          7,098        247,944        255,893          (7,949)          17%
Training for NDFC          198,042         22,366        175,676        203,141         (27,465)          14%
Training for BEL           679,232              0        679,232        599,915         79,317            40%
1/ Total original TA was SDR 1.5 million. Total disbursed includes utilization from Special Account.
2/ Includes SDR 7,421 exchange rate fluctuation between SDR and US$ (currency of Special Account).
3/ The total undisbursed balance as of October 31, 1994 (four months after credit closing) was SDR 200,258
which was cancelled.



Appendix A
26                           Page I of 10
Pakistan
Third Industrial Investment Credit (IIC-II)
(Ln 3019-Pak/Cr 1982-Pak)
Implementation Completion Mission
January 18-30
Aide Memoire
1.           A World Bank mission led by Ms. Shideh Hadian visited Pakistan from January 18 to
30 to carry out the completion mission of the above project. Mr. Hasan Qureshi (SA1PK) participated
in the mission. We appreciate the hospitality and cooperation extended to the mission by the Habib
Bank Limited (HBL), Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB), National Bank of Pakistan (NBP), National
Development Finance Corporation (NDFC), Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
(PICIC), the Sponsors of the sub-projects visited by the mission, the Bankers Equity Limited (BEL),
All Pakistan Textile Mills Association (APTMA), the Corporate Law Authority (CLA), and the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). The mission's work greatly facilitated bv the close cooperation of
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) in providing the required information and meeting with the
mission in Lahore due to the persisting security situation in Karachi. As usual, the views expressed in
this Aide Memoire are those of the mission, and are subject to confirmation by the World Bank
Management upon the mission's return.
Backeround
2.           The Third [IC project was designed to support private sector development through
credit and policv reforms of the capital markets. The project was approved by the Board of Directors
on January 31, 1989 and became effective on June 16, 1989. [IC-Ill had two components: (i) a Bank
loan of US$ 148 million for financing private industrial projects through the banking system; and (ii)
an IDA Credit of US$ 2 million equivalent for Technical Assistance (TA) for supporting institutional
capacity building of PFIs and development of the capital markets. The IDA credit component was
closed, as originally scheduled, on June 30, 1994. However, per GOP's request, the closing date of
the loan component was extended for one year to June 30, 1995 (see para. 5). The last supervision
mission was carried out in July 1993 and due to the security situation in Karachi, there was no
completion mission before the project closing. However, as the violence persisted in the Sind
Province, the Bank decided to send the completion mission to Punjab Province (Lahore and
Islamabad). The overall implementation experience of the above project will be discussed in the
following paragraphs.
Implementation of the Bank Loan Component (Ln 3019-Pak)
3.           The Bank Loan component was implemented with delavs but, overall, satisfactorily
and achieved its development objectives. Of the total loan amount, about US$ 138 million (93%) was
utilized by 37 medium and large scale industries for capital investment and the unutilized balance of
about US$ 10.0 million will be cancelled. The project had significant impact on the employment
generation in industrial sector. Of the four National Commercial Banks. all met the participation



Appendix A
27                            Page 2 of 10
conditions at the time of effectiveness; however, only three banks (HBL, MCB, NBP) became eligible
to have access to the Bank funds for term lending and TA. United Bank Limited participation was
suspended under the Second [IC project due to its large non-performing loan to a textile company and
therefore had never been eligible for participation in the Third IIC. Of the three DFIs identified to
participate in the project, only PICIC and NDFC met the participation conditions and eligibility
criteria. Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan never participated in this project.
4.            Factors that Affected the Sub-Dro4ects Performance - The commitment and
disbursements of IIC-III were slower than the rate anticipated bv the Staff Appraisal Report mainly
due to adverse economic conditions of the OECD countries in early 1990s and accompanying
recession in Pakistan economy in early to mid-1990s which led to sluggish industrial investment
activities in particular in the textile industry. In eariv 1990s, a combination of adverse domestic and
external factors resulted in decline in Pakistan growth rate, continuation of inflationary pressure, and
weak balance of payments. On the supply side, bad whether condition and viral attack on the cotton
crop resulted in decline in wheat harvest and cotton crop failure. Bad cotton crop for three
consecutive years (1992, 1993, and 1994) resulted in critical shortage of cotton and more than 100%
increase in prices during this period and adversely affected the textile industry which accounts for
about 60% of the export value. On the demand side, economic recession in major markets for
Pakistan exports and intensified competition by its trading competitors were added to the domestic
problems the countrv was facing. In addition, the 1993-94 political turbulence in the country and later
the law and order situation in Karachi adversely affected economic activities and more so the
performance of industrial sector. As a result, most of the industrial units and in particular those in
textile sub-sectors of spinning and weaving which were established between 1989-1992 have been
badly hit. Many projects faced liquidity problem and had losses, or closed down.
S.            Implementation of IIC-III Since Julv 1993 - Several sub-loans financed under the
IIC-III were cancelled and as of June 1993, over US$ 16 million of the loan proceeds remained
uncommitted. The Bank mission of July 1993 (the last supervision mission) recommended that the
deadline for submission of sub-loan applications be extended for six months, from June 30 to
December 31, 1993. This was the second extension of this deadline: the original deadline for sub-loan
applications was December 31, 1991. Part of the unutilized fund was committed, through PICIC, to
Fazal Weaving Mills Ltd for US$ 6.0 million in September 1993 and to United Finishing Mills Ltd.
for US$ 3.3 million in March 1994. Accordingly, the project closing date was extended for one year,
to June 30, 1995, in order to provide the PFIs and sponsors with adequate time to complete sub-
projects implementation and disbursements. In Pakistan. it normally takes about one year to 18
months to implement a project after sub-loan approval.
6.            While disbursements against all financed sub-projects completed on time,
implementation of the above two mentioned sub-projects were delayed due to problems with the
delivery schedule of equipment purchased and delays in opening of the Letters of Credit (L/Cs). Loan
to Fazal Weaving MvIills was canceled later on. In May 1995, PICIC and the GOP requested the Bank
to grant another six months extension for the United Finishing Mills to complete disbursements, on the
ground that this company had already opened the LICs and Bank' issued four Special Commitments
against these L/Cs. In June 1995, the Bank approved a partial extension and established December 31,
1995 as the closing date for this sub-project. However, all the other project components and sub-loans
approved by the PFIs closed on June 30. 1995. The final payments against Special Commitments
have recently been made and no further payments will be made under this loan (see paras. 3 &17).



Appendix A
Page 3 of 10
28
several loans. In order to protect and revive its financed industries. HBL rescheduled most of its loans
and allowed two years moratorium in payments of dues. It is expected that cash generations from the
sub-projects during this period improve their debt service payments. The mission was informed by
HBL that based on the December 1995 status reports of the sub-projects, the industries' performance is
better and HBL's collection of principal and interest have slightly improved since November 1995.
The mission visited Ghazi Fabrics Industrial Ltd. sub-project financed by the HBL. This sub-project,
which is engaged in spinning and weaving, had its share of heavy losses during the cotton crisis;
however, due to good cotton market in 1995, the company has started to generate better returns since
September of 1995. The company has set up a 10.5 Mega Watt power plant which has increased its
production efficiency as it has uninterrupted electricity during its operations and reduced the cost of its
electricity use in half. The power plant has high enough return to cover the investment cost in two
years. As the sponsor is financially strong and experienced, despite running losses, he was regular in
servicing its debt. Like many other sponsors, he is optimistic about better returns and profitability in
the coming years.
12.           PICIC approved US$ 34.4 million for 12 sub-projects of which 8 were textile
manufacturing and 3 were sugar mills. There were delays in the implementation of some of the sub-
projects (including the above mentioned sub-project, Para. 6) and due to reasons mentioned above
several sub-loans are now in arrears. As a result, PICIC's loan recovery rate was also deteriorated
during 1993-94 and collection ratio on Bank's sub-loans dropped from 80% in 1992 to about 60% in
1994. PICIC informed the mission that it will continue its policv of rehabilitation and reviving sick
units and have rescheduled some loans. It is expected that many sub-projects resume debt servicing
within a year. The mission visited two of the PICIC's Financed sub-projects under [IC-1I1, Pak
Electron Ltd (PEL) and Legler-Nafees Denim Mills Ltd. The former was an expansion and
modernization project in the production of refrigerator which was successfully completed withiout
delays. Despite adverse economic condition, the company runs well and is
profitable: sponsors are regular in servicing their debt. Legler-Nafees Mills is a joint venture with a
foreign company for establishment of a composite textile unit. The company is regular in its debt
servicing. The mission found it encouraging to see a change in trend In investment in the textile
sector from single product line (spinning and/or weaving) to higiler value-added production units
(dyeing, finishing, ready made garments) and more so the establishmenit of a fully integrated, joint
venture textile mills such as Legler-Nafees Mills.
13.           NDFC approved 8 sub-loans under [IC-IlI amounting to US$ 28.6 million. Five of
tihe sub-projects were in spinning and weaving sector, 2 were for establishment and expansion of sugar
projects, and one for setting up a new project for the production of capacitors. Except two projects in
spinning and one in sugar, the rest are running at losses. Although the NDFC's share of its loan
portfolio in the textile sector is low, its recovery rate has also deteriorated siice 1993 and its loan
collection ratio under the project fell from about 90% in 1992 to about 75% in 1994. The mission
visited three projects financed by NDFC. The Amber Electronic Ltd which produces capacitors for
the local market started its commercial operations in 1992 and has faced liquidity problems since,
mainly due to non-realization of accounts receivable as a result of prevailing recession. This project
was further suffered when in 1994 the GOP imposed heavv dutvyon raw materials used for this
product and reduced duty on imported capacitors. This project. which is managed by an experienced
sponsor, meets about 30% of the local demand and is now in the process of receiving license and
certificate from a reputable standardization agency which would open up its market abroad. It is
expected that withi expansion of its market and improvement of the domestic and international
economy. this project become profitable. Kohinoor Looms Ltd. whicih was established in 1992 is



Appendix A
Page 4 of 10
29
several loans. In order to protect and revive its financed industries, HBL rescheduled most of its loans
and allowed two years moratorium in payments of dues. It is expected that cash generations from the
sub-projects during this period improve their debt service payments. The mission was informed by
HBL that based on the December 1995 status reports of the sub-projects, the industries' performance is
better and HBL's collection of principal and interest have slightly improved since November 1995.
The mission visited Ghazi Fabrics Industrial Ltd. sub-project financed by the HBL. This sub-project,
which is engaged in spinning and weaving, had its share of heavy losses during the cotton crisis;
however, due to good cotton market in 1995, the company has started to generate better returns since
September of 1995. The company has set up a 10.5 Mega Watt power plant which has increased its
production efficiency as it has uninterrupted electricity during its operations and reduced the cost of its
electricity use in half. The power plant has high enough return to cover the investment cost in two
years. As the sponsor is financially strong and experienced, despite running losses, he was regular in
servicing its debt. Like many other sponsors, he is optimistic about better returns and profitability in
the coming years.
12.           PICIC approved US$ 34.4 million for 12 sub-projects of which 8 were textile
manufacturing and 3 were sugar mills. There were delays in the implementation of some of the sub-
projects (including the above mentioned sub-project, Para. 6) and due to reasons mentioned above
several sub-loans are now in arrears. As a result, PICIC's loan recovery rate was also deteriorated
during 1993-94 and collection ratio on Bank's sub-loans dropped from 80% in 1992 to about 60% in
1994. PICIC informed the mission that it will continue its policy of rehabilitation and reviving sick
units and have rescheduled some loans. It is expected that many sub-projects resume debt servicing
within a year. The mission visited two of the PICIC's financed sub-projects under IIC-III, Pak
Electron Ltd (PEL) and Legler-Nafees Denim Mills Ltd. The former was an expansion and
modernization project in the production of refrigerator whicil was successfuilly completed without
delays. Despite adverse economic condition, the company runs well and is
profitable; sponsors are regular in servicing their debt. Legler-Nafees Mills is a joint venture with a
foreign company for establishment of a composite textile unit. The company is regular in its debt
servicing. The mission found it encouraging to see a change in trend in investment in the textile
sector from single product line (spinning and/or weaving) to higher value-added production units
(dyeing, finishilng, ready made garments) and more so the establishment of a fully integrated, joint
venture textile mills such as Legler-Nafees Mills.
13.           NDFC approved 8 sub-loans under IIC-Ill amounting to US$ 28.6 million. Five of
the sub-projects were in spinning and weaving sector, 2 were for establishment and expansion of sugar
projects, and one for setting up a new project for the production of capacitors. Except two projects in
spinning and one in sugar, the rest are running at losses. Although the NDFC's share of its loan
portfolio in the textile sector is low, its recovery rate has also deteriorated since 1993 and its loan
collection ratio under the project fell from about 90% in 1992 to about 75% in 1994. The mission
visited three projects financed by NDFC. The Amber Electronic Ltd which produces capacitors for
the local market started its commercial operations in 1992 and has faced liquidity problems since,
mainly due to non-realization of accounts receivahle as a result of prevailing recession. This project
was further suffered when in 1994 the GOP imposed heavy duty on raw materials used for this
product and reduced duty on imported capacitors. This project. which is managed by an experienced
sponsor, meets about 30% of the local demand and is now in the process of receiving license and
certificate from a reputable standardization agency whicIh would open up its market abroad. It is
expected that with expansion of its market and improvement of the domestic and international
economy, this project become profitable. Kohinoor Looms Ltd. which was established in 1992 is



Appendix A
Page 5 of 10
30
engaged in weaving manufacturing. The company had run to financial difficulties in 1993-94 and is
overdue in its debt servicing to NDFC. The company has recently started to diversify its production
into garments manufacturing for the local market which is expected to increase its earning il future.
Rescheduling of this company's loan is under review by NDFC. Highnoon Textiles Ltd, which was
established in 1994, is an integrated unit engaged in knitting, dyeing/finishing, and garments
manufacturing for the export markets. Highnoon had established its markets with reputable companies
in USA and Europe over a short period of time and is expected to expand its operations in the future.
14.           Under this project, MCB approved US$ 15.2 million for 4 sub-projects in the textile
sector. Three companies started to face difficulties in 1993-94 which resulted in non-payments of
their dues. The bank's recovery rate under this project was 100% until 1992; however, the prolonged
illness of the textile sector, adversely affected the recovery rate of MCB and its collection ratio
dropped way below the covenanted 80% under this project. Following the GOP's relief package,
MCB rescheduled its problem loans.
15.          NBP approved only one sub-project under IIC-Ill for the amount of US$ 7.1 million.
The company, Samin Textile Ltd, is engaged in weaving manufactures mainly for the exports and is
managed by well known group of industrialists with sufficient financial strength. The company is
running efficiently and had managed to diversify its production of gray cloth through establishing its
markets in Germany and Korea for the industrial fabrics whicih is expected to have higher return than
regular fabrics. The company, however, had losses during past two years and has defaulted in
servicing its debt to NBP. The company suffered partly because of the cotton crop failure and partly
due to the changes in Government policies which were not accounted for in the project's feasibility
and financial planning and subsequently affected the company's profitability. Rescheduling of the
loan is under consideration. The company's performance has improved since September 1995, when it
registered profit for the first time since cotton crisis began. Due to the high exposure of the NBP's
portfolio to the textile sector, its loan recovery rate is not satisfactory. The mission was informed that
bank's recovery rate for loan portfolio to non-textile sector is also low partly due to economic
recession and partly due to non-performing loans to Government.
Implementation of IDA Credit Component (Cr. 1982-Pak)
16.          The credit component was about 87% utilized and a balance of about US$ 267,000
was cancelled at the time of the credit closing, June 30. 1994 (see para. 2). The last disbursement
against the credit component was on August 30, 1993. The credit fund was mainly used for
institutional development (training; equipment) of the PFIs and BEL. The mission was intformed by
some PFIs that several of their training programs were not useful and did not benefit the trainees or
the institution. Several programs were selected on ad hoc basis and did not meet the human resource
development needs of the banks. BEL used about 50% of the TA funds for foreign training programs.
It sent 47 of its middle level management abroad for short and long term programs. The mission was
informed by BEL that the selections of training programs and the officers were based oln the human
resources development plan of the institution and that the TA was very useful in capacity building of
its technical staff.
17.          Special Account - The mission informed the HBL and the MOF that a balance of US$
424,437.72 is still outstanding in the Special Accounts kept in the HBL. This amount must be



Appendix A
31                           Page 6 of 10
refunded to the IBRD, credited to the loan account 3019-Pak as soon as possible so that, Bank can
proceed with the loan cancellation and close the loan accounts.
18.          Preparation of Implementation Completion Report (ICR) - Preparation of the ICR
under the new Bank guidelines was discussed in details with the MOF and the PFIs. The MOF
agreed to prepare part II (the borrower's evaluation of the project) of the ICR before end of March
of thisyear. The PFIs agreed to provide their inputsfor this part to the MOF. A questionnaire was
sent out to the PFIs in December 1995 for their inputs regarding the status of their respective approved
sub-projects. The mission received the required information upon arrival to Lahore.
Islamabad
January 31, 1996



32                       Appendix A
Page 7 of 10
S '~~I. A. Jafaray,
AdViser to the Prime Minister               C
w    i   E   zn Finance and Sconomic Affairs. . d
x  2;V    Phone: 0  I-Z1 asZS
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  JRpCon   28  94'
No. F.7 I)-Inv. :1/93-
Dear Mr. Preston,
1.          For a number of years the Government of Pakistan has been engaged
in a systematic and wide-ranging policy reform program involving improving
macroeconomic performance, deregulation of the economy, and privatization of
state-owned firms. Portions of this program have been supported by World Bank
adjustment operations, namely the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan and the
Public Sector Adjustment Loan.
2.          The Government of Pakistan is committed to promoting a healthy,
market-oriented financial system that can allocate investment resources and spread
risk in the most efficient and equitable manner. To that end a number of reforms
have been carried out such as, giving greater autonomy to the State Bank of
Pakistan, strengthening prudential regulation of commercial banks, extending
prudential regulations to non-bank financial institutions, having privatized two
commercial banks and being in the process of privatizing two more, eliminating
credit ceilings, establishing an auction of treasury bills, limiting the volume of
subsidized and directed credit, reducing the degree of concessionality in subsidized
credit and eliminating foreign exchange cover, and opening up the capital account.
A program of monetary, fiscal and trade policy reforms is being supported by the
International Monetary Fund under ESAF.
3.          Notwithstanding the strides made thus far in financial sector reform,
the Government of Pakistan plans to continue the reform process in order to
address a number of important remaining issues. These would be as follows:
(a)   SBP will carry out a program to contain the flows of credit to
the private sector through financial intermediaries to a level
corresponding to overall increase in private sector credit.
Further, the rate of return at which SBP lends these funds will
be linked to the returns on treasury bills. By August 1997 the



Appendix A
Page 8 of 10
rate in general will be brought at par with the treasury bill
rate.
(b)   SBP is moving towards indirect control of monetary and credit
aggregates principally through open market operations. To
facilitate this process, the Government of Pakistan will begin to
issue quarterly estimates of its sales of debt instruments to the
public through auction. So long as non-price mechanisms of
monetary control, such as credit deposit ratio, continue to be
used, SBP will take steps to ensure that they do not
discriminate among classes of financial intermediaries and
among non-governmental users of credit.
(c)   In order to promote competition and the most efficient
provision of financial services taxation, prudential regulations,
and other rules applying to financial institutions and
instruments will be progressively adjusted to create a level
playing field. To that end SBP is carrying out a study to apply
prudential regulations by activity rather than by type of
institution. Government has decided not to issue any new debt
instruments with tax exemptions.  Government intends to
phase out the tax exemptions of all financial firms by July
1996, except joint ventures in which tax exemption is
established by treaty and the dividend income of mutual funds
and modarabas acting as mutual funds. The privileged access
of NIT to new corporate equity issues will also be reduced
gradually and compulsory reinsurance and right of first
refusal of PIC will be phased out over a period of 3 to 5 years.
(d)   Prudential regulations of financial institutions *vill continue to
be strengthened and their application is being made more
effective. To this end, maximum exposure of a financial
institution to a group of related firms will be defined and
applied in a phased manner. SBP has prepared a program to
require all NBFIs including DFIs, over time, to provision for
non-performing loans and to suspend interest according to the
same rules as applying  to commercial banks.   At an
appropriate time, when financial institutions have been further
strengthened, all financial institutions will be required to
publish audited financial information prepared according to
internationally recognized standards.  SBP will prepare a
program to require all financial institutions over time to meet
capital adequacy standards defined according to risk weighted
assets.



Appendix A
34                    Page 9 of 10
(e)   So far the financial system  had not been able to provide
significant amounts of long-term  credit.  To correct this
deficiency the Government will carry out a study to identify
the major obstacles discouraging financial institutions in
providing long-term credit, including interest rate controls,
loan recovery problems, and any legal or regulatory deterrent
to firms' and financial institutions' issuing floating rate and
fixed  rate long-term  debt instruments.   Bottlenecks so
identified will be removed.  Investment rules governing
insurance companies will be reviewed to encourage these
institutions to invest in prudent levels of private sector equity
and debt instruments. Government will review desirability of
issuing long-term variable rate debt instruments.
(f)   Securities  markets,  particularly  equities  markets  have
developed markedly in Pakistan in recent years. Nevertheless,
several additional measures will be undertaken to promote a
deeper and more competitive market. The Corporate Law
Authority will be reorganized to create an independent wing to
administer securities regulations. CLA will review ways of
promoting issue and  trading of corporate debt, including
convertible bond instruments and to create the environment
for trading in commodities futures contracts. CLA will allow
firms issuing securities full freedom to price those securities
and will promote the development of an over-the-counter
equities market.
(g)   The failure of financial institutions to recover their loans,
especially long-term loans has been due in part to
shortcomings in the legal system. The Government has already
increased the number of Banking Tribunals (and has decided
to combine the function of the Special Banking Courts and the
Banking Tribunals in the same persons, wherever necessary).
In addition, the Government has established a Task Force to
examine ways of overcoming the shortcomings of the system of
debt recovery, and in particular, of improving the legal
environment for such recovery, and will carry out its
recommendations as considered appropriate.
(h)   The Government is undertaking a comprehensive program of
technical assistance, including both consultant's services,
training and equipment, for SBP, CLA and CI to strengthen
their ability to promote a more competitive and efficient
financial system.



Appendix A
Page 10 of lO
4.         In the context of these developments, the Government of Pakistan
would like to request the World Bank to provide a credit line of US$ 216.0 million,
including a component for technical assistance, for long-term project financing.
The line of credit will be used to finance industrial projects through eligible private
and public sector financial intermediaries on the basis of a counter guarantee from
the approved financial institutions.
S.          Government of Pakistan will look forward for an early response from
the World Bank to the proposal.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,.
iA t. af 4rsy
Adviser to the Prime Minister
on Finance and Economic Affairs
Mr. Lewis Preston,
President,
The World Bank,
Washington, D.C.



Appendix 2
36                               Pagel of2
IMPLMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PARISTA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL INVESTMEMNT CREDIT
(Ln. 3019-Pak / Cr. 1982-Pak)
Evaluation Report By The Government
Third Industrial Investment Credit amounting to US$150 million
including   US$2 million IDA credit as Technical Assistant was approved in
January,  1989 and made affective on June 16, 1989.   The loan was closed on
December 31, 1995, for all practical purposes.  And amount equivalent to about
US$10 million remained un-utilized and therefore, cancelled.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the IIC-III were:
(I)   To  assist  in  financing  such  productive  facilities  and
resources in Pakistan as will contribute to the economic and
social development of the country and to this end,
(II) To assist in:
(a)  improving the credit delivery system for industrial
finance;
(b)  continuing the institution building programs of PFIs;
(c)  accelerating equity market development; and
(d)  focusing on selected corporate finance issues relevant
to industrial growth.
The industrial sector in Pakistan is a very important and a dynamic
segment of Pakistan's economy and plays a major role in achieving GOP's
economic  and social sector.   Of this,  the role of medium to large  scale
industrial sector is more significant and meaningful as a major contributor of
corporate taxes and provider of employment.   In this context,  the role of
private sector is even more important reflecting GOP's greater emphasis on the
development of private sector.  The objectives of the IIC-III (for medium and
large sized projects) were framed keeping in view the lessons learned from the
IIC-I and IIC-II projects which improved the system of industrial finance
involving the major development and commercial banks and took measures to
further develop the stock market.   The objectives thus were consistent and
realistic keeping in view the long term perspective of the financial and
industrial scenario in Pakistan.
ACHIEVZMENT OF OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the project were achieved to a great extent with
the help of World Bank appraisal and implementation missions at different
intervals providing useful guidelines for the successful implementation of the



Appendix 2
37                               Page 2 of 2
project.   Under the circumstances,  design of the project was suitable to the
then prevailing conditions which facilitated in the smooth implementation of
the project.  The commitment on the part of the Government of Pakistan towards
liberalization,   deregulations  and  privatization  which  has  substantially
expanded the role of private sector has also played significant role in
providing an impetus and incentive to the sub-borrowers of the project.   The
project significantly contributed towards mobilization of foreign exchange
resources which were used to import sophisticated machinery which helped
particularly in the development of textile sector.   Needless to mention that
textile exports contributed substantially towards foreign exchange earning and
GDP growth besides creating sufficient number of additional employment.   As
most of the sub-projects were established in relatively under developed areas
of the country, the project proved useful towards Government policy aimed to
reduce intro-regional economic dis-equilibrium.   In the overall context the
country has benefited by the project  in terms of  foreign currency funds,
development of industrial sector, creation of new jobs, production of exports
oriented products, substitution of importable goods, development of socio-
economic activities and broadening of the industrial base coupled with the
transfer of technology.   At micro level, the participating institution gained
sufficient experience and benefited in terms of increased efficiency and
profitability through increased business activity with improved methods and
skills.
As regards Technical Assistance component the PFIs have their
reservations regarding some procedural problems in the administration and
management of bank's fund. It has been suggested that in future greater amount
may be allocated for human resource development and technical advancement and
the World Bank should lend support in selection of suitable training programs
with a view to improve institutional building on long-term basis.   There is
also a need to strengthen coordination and supervision of the projects launched
in future both on the part of the Bank as well as by the Government.
Received on May 22, 1996






MAP SECTION






IBRD 16248R4
64'                                    68                                  T A J I K I S TAN
i . _>            5    cHINA
PAKISTAN                                                      o    ,,                              \
                                                            (          t                             <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~36-
36'                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
0     CITIES AND TOWNS
NATIONAL ROADS
PRIMARY  AND  SECONDARY  ROADS
RAILWAYS                                                  ,J_                        \
4'    AIRPORTS                                                           horsodo              Appro,,mot. tin o/ Contoi
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                       >      Nsh           \
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                       LAIMPeAhAo4   bod   I
RIVERS                                                                        Roip n d    JAMMU and KASHMIR
32'                                                                                                                                            32-
)    AFGHANISTAN
t                 <            ~           ~~~~~~~~ N D A
28-                                                                                                                                            28-
SLAMIC   j
REPUBLIC  OF i     ,             .
IRAN                                                                                                        100     200       300      400
s                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
0      50    100     150,    200    250
(n   wooobsh.h                                                                   MILES
Bui_. Pt0.  e(,obhd,
3ul il   t . . tt          *                 Th z d .n n d e a   any
Bod'  n       >  _:>oth., info--n-tian ho.,"n
- 24-                                         _                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th. Wordd Baonk Gnou~p,
b;                                                                                               -  any jodgqnnt on th. I.gol
oran  *dr.n,n
or occpaone of *ucl,
bona...
64-                                    68                                   72'
FEBRUARY 1994









IMAGING
Report No:       15731
Type: ICR



