Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3019 PAK
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1982 PAK
           (Third Industrial Investment Credit Project)
                              between
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 10, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3019 PAK
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1982 PAK
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 10,  1989, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF  PAKISTAN  acting   by   its   President   (the  Borrower)  and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the International Bank
for  Reconstruction  and  Development  (the  Bank)  of  even  date
herewith (the Loan  Agreement),  has  requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project; and
     (B)  the Borrower  has  also  requested  the  Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing  of the Project and by
the  Loan  Agreement,  the  Bank   is  agreeing  to  provide  such
assistance in  an  aggregate  principal  amount  equivalent to one
hundred forty-eight million dollars ($148,000,000) (the Loan); and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The  "Genral  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications  set  forth  below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)    Paragraph  9  of  Section  2.01  is  deleted  and  the
following substituted therefor:
          "9. "Project" means the project  for which the Credit is
     granted, as  described  in  the  Loan  Agreement  and  as the
     description thereof  may  be  amended  from  time  to time by
     agreement between the Borrower and the Bank"; and
     (b)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the    context otherwise requires, the
several terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions,  in the Loan
Agreement  and  in  the  Preamble   to  this  Agreement  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Loan Agreement" means the  agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and  the  Bank  for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
the  "General  Conditions   Applicable   to   Loan  and  Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all  schedules  and  agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement; and
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to one  million  five  hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 1,500,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of goods and  services  required for Part B of the
Project described in Schedule 2  to  the  Loan Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for  the  purposes  of Part B of the
Project, open and maintain  in  dollars  a  special account in the
Habib Bank  Ltd.,  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Schedule.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  3
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  May  15 and November 15
commencing  May  15,  1999  and  ending  November  15,  2023. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on November
15, 2008 shall  be  one  and  one-fourth  percent (1-1/4%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five  consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09.  The Chief  Executive Officers of PFIs or their
nominees are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any  action  required  or permitted to be taken
Page  4
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions in respect of the technical assistance
and training to be utilized  by  them respectively under Part B of
the Project.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project
through PFIs with due  diligence  and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Part B of the Project.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for Part B of the Project  and  to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, in respect of Part B of the
Project, cause PFIs to  furnish  to  the Association (a) quarterly
progress  reports,  and   (b)   such   other  information  as  the
Association shall from  time  to  time  reasonably request, all in
form and content satisfactory to the Association.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures  in  respect  of  Part   B  of  the  Project  of  the
departments  or  agencies   of   the   Borrower,  including  PFIs,
responsible for carrying out  Part  B  of  the Project or any part
thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
Page  5
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                          Other Covenants
     Section 5.O1. The Borrower shall cause PFIs to carry on their
operations and  conduct  their  affairs  in  accordance with sound
administrative and financial  practices  under  the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 6.Ol. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that any of  the  events  specified  in  Section  5.01 of the Loan
Agreement shall have occurred.
     Section 6.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.O1  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (e) of
Section 5.O1 of the Loan  Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty  days  after  notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower; and
     (b) any event specified in  paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of
Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  7.O1.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section l2.Ol (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that  all  conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled.
     Section 7.O2. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.03. If the  Loan  Agreement terminates prior to the
termination  of  this  Agreement,   the  provisions  of  the  Loan
Agreement referred to  in  this  Agreement  shall continue in full
force and effect between  the  Borrower  and the Association, such
termination notwithstanding.
                           ARTICLE VIII
Page  6
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.09 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to  the  Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division, or  any  Additional  Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Deputy Secretary  or  Section  Officer  of  that  Division  of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad
          Pakistan
      Cable address:                          Telex:
                Economic                         ECD IV-05-634
                Pakistan
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                          By /s/ M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ H. E. Kopp
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The amount of the  Credit  may  be  withdrawn from the Credit
Account to meet 100% of foreign expenditures for goods and 100% of
expenditures for consultants'  services  and training required for
Part B of the Project.
Page  7
2.   For  the  purposes  of   this  Schedule,  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures  in  the  currency of any country
other than that of  the  Borrower  for  goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of expenditures for goods and services unless
such goods and services shall have been approved by the Bank; and
     (b)  in respect of  payments  made  for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods
     Goods may  be  procured  through  the  standard procedures of
PFIs, CLA and BEL satisfactory to the Association.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist  PFIs,  CLA  and  BEL  in carrying out the
studies,   training  and  other  activities  under  Part  B of the
Project,   the   Borrower    shall    employ   consultants   whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to  the  Association. Such consultants shall
be  selected  in   accordance   with   principles  and  procedures
satisfactory to the Association  on  the  basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of  Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing  Agency"  published  by the Bank in August
1981.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means the Categories set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Part B of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated from time  to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
Page  8
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  in  the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount of any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
Part B of the  Project,  shall  equal  the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association:  (A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as the
Association may request; or  (B)  deposit into the Special Account
(or,  if  the  Association   shall   so  request,  refund  to  the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so  eligible  or  justified.    Unless  the
Page  9
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant    provisions  of  this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
