OFFFCIAL
DOCUMENTSi
1                 11
LOAN NUMBER 3019PAK
CREDIT NUMBER 1982 PAK
Loan Agreement
(Third Industrial Investment Credit Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                         /, 1989


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3019 PAK
CREDIT NUMBER 1982 PAK
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     C  th4d*4      (0      , 1989, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN actig by its President (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having been satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International
Development Association (the Association) to provide additional
financial assistance toward the financing of the Project and by
the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the
Association of even date herewith (the Development Credit
Agreement) the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to one million five
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,500,000) (the
Credit); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the following additional terms .have the following
meanings:


﻿- 2 -
(a) "HBL" means the Habib Bank Ltd., established and
existing under the Pakistan Companies Ordinance, 1984, as may be
amended from time to time;
(b) "UBL" means the United Bank Ltd., established and
existing under the Pakistan Companies Ordinance, 1984, as may be
amended from time to time;
(c) "MCB" means the Muslim Commercial Bank Ltd., established
and existing under the Pakistan Companies Ordinance, 1984, as may
be amended from time to time;
(d) "NBP" means the National Bank of Pakistan Ltd.,
established and existing under the National Bank of Pakistan
Ordinance, 1949, of the Borrower, as amended;
(e) "NCBs" mean collectively the Nationalized Commercial
Banks, being HBL, UBL, MCB and NBP;
(f) "IDBP" means the Industrial Development Bank of
Pakistan, established and existing under the Industrial
Development Bank of Pakistan Ordinance, 1961, of the Borrower, as
amended;
(g) "NDFC" means the National Development Finance
Corporation, established and existing under the National
Development Finance Corporation Act (No. XIII of 1973) of the
Borrower, as amended;
(h) "PICIC" means the Pakistan Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation Limited, established and existing under the
Pakistan Companies Ordinance, 1984, as may be amended from time to
time;
(i) "DFIs" mean collectively the Development Finance
Institutions, being IDBP, NDFC and PICIC;
(j) "PFIs" mean collectively the Participating Financial
Institutions, being those NCBs and DFIs which shall have satisfied
the conditions of eligibility for participating in the Project set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(k) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" mean collectively the
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and PFIs
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be


﻿- 3 -
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and "Subsidiary
Loan Agreement" means any and each such agreement;
(1) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a
PFI out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise
for an Investment Project;
(m) "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the pro-
visions of paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
(n) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which a
PFI proposes-to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(o) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(p) "Charter" or "Statutes" means, in respect of each of
HBL, UBL, MCB and PICIC, its articles and memorandum of
association and other documentation relating to its establishment
and existence, and, in respect of each of NBP, IDBP and NDFC, the
legislation under which it was established and exists;
(q) "Statement of Policy" means
(i)   with respect to HBL, the statement of lending and
investment policy approved by its Directors on
November 24, 1988, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
(ii)  with respect to UBL, the statement of lending and
investment policy approved by its Directors on
December 26, 1988, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
(iii)  with respect to MCB, the statement of lending and
investment policy approved by its Directors on
April 12, 1988, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
(iv)   with respect to NBP, the statement of lending and
investment policy approved by its Directors on
December 10, 1988, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;


﻿(v)  with respect to IDBP, the statement of lending and
investment policy approved by its Directors on
October 26, 1988, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
(vi)  with respect to NDFC, the statement of lending and
investment policy approved by its Directors on
October 25, 1988, as amended to the date of this
Agreement; and
(vii)  with respect to PICIC, the statement of lending and
investment policy approved by its Directors on
September 8, 1988, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
(r) "CLA" means the Corporate Law Authority of the Borrower,
established and exis,ting under the Pakistan Companies Ordinance,
1984, as may be amended from time to time;
(s) "BEL" means the Bankers Equity Limited, established and
existing under the Companies Ordinance, 1984;
(t) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association for
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement;
(u) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(v) "Rs" and "rupees" mean the currency of the Borrower; and
(w) "FY" means the Borrower's or a PFI's fiscal year,
covering, in the case of the Borrower and IDBP, the period July 1
through June 30, and, in the case of NCBs, NDFC and PICIC, the
period January 1 through December 31.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
forty-eight million dollars ($148,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be paid) by a PFI on account of withdrawals
made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account
is requested.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account in the
Habib Bank Ltd. on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 9 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the -Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.


﻿-6-
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means the six-month period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, expressed as a percentage per
annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
(iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the second
six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Chief Executive Officers of PFIs, or their
nominees, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions in respect of the Sub-loans
for which they are respectively responsible.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause PFIs to carry out the Project and conduct their operations
and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and
practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in
accordance with their Charters or Statutes and Statements of
Policy, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,


﻿- 7 -
necessary or appropriate to enable PFIs to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
PFIs under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between
the Borrower and PFIs, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank and which shall include the terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, PFIs will make Sub-loans in accordance
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall cause each PFI to exercise its rights
in relation to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i)
protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and the PFI; (ii)
comply with its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
which such PFI is a party; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the
Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause PFIs to maintain
procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the progress
of the Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost
and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of PFIs.


﻿- 8 -
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall or, as the case may be,
shall cause PFIs to:
(a) have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement, their accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
and records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(A) certified copies of said financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the said records, accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause PFIs take such steps
satisfactory to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect them-
selves against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of
exchange between the currencies (including the currency of the
Borrower) used in their operations.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause each DFI not to incur any debt, if after
the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be
greater than seven to one.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the DFI
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment, on the date, and to the
extent, the amount of such debt has become


﻿-9-
outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement or
instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(iii) The term "equity" means the sum of the total
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
reserves of the DFI not allocated to cover specific
liabilities.
(iv) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause each DFI to maintain a debt service coverage
ratio of not less than 1.20. Such ratio shall be calculated by
dividing the sum of the DFI's net income after tax, interest
payments, adjusted for taxes, provisions for losses and loan
collections by the sum of the DFI's repayments of debt and
payments of interest, adjusted for taxes.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1989, issue instructions, satisfactory to the Bank, requiring all
financial institutions to include bridge loans in the definition
of debt for the purposes of calculating the debt: equity ratios of
the enterprises to which such financial institutions lend.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1989, take measures, satisfactory to the Bank, throwing open the
membership of the Karachi Stock Exchange to financial institutions
including private investment finance companies.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿- 10 -
(a) Any PFI shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which it is a
party.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that any PFI will be able to
perform it obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
which it is a party.
(c) The Charter or Statutes or the Statement of Policy of
any PFI shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or
the financial condition of the PFI or its ability to carry out the
Project or to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement to which it is a party.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of any PFI or for the suspension of its
operations.
(e) A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by any PFI, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the PFI's business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its
management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement


﻿- 11 -
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have been
entered into between the Borrower and at least two PFIs, of which
at least one shall be a DFI and one a NTCB.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
referred to in Section 6.01 of this Agreement have been duly
authorized or ratified by, and are legally binding upon, the
Borrower and the concerned PFIs in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of that Division of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                 Telex:
ECONOMIC                     ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad


﻿- 12 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                  Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By           i1
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                 Regional Vice President
Europe, M7dle East and North Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account
on account of withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a
Sub-loan to meet 100% of foreign expenditures and 60% of local
expenditures for goods and services required for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account
is requested.
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 7 to this
Agreement; and
(b) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist in financing
such productive facilities and resources in Pakistan as will
contribute to the economic and social development of the country,
and to this end, (ii) to assist in: (a) improving the credit
delivery system for industrial finance; (b) continuing the
institution building programs of PFIs; (c) accelerating equity
market development; and (d) focussing on select corporate finance
issues relevant to industrial growth.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Investment Proiects
The financing of specific development projects through loans
to private enterprises in the industrial sector.
Part B:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Provision of technical assistance to PFIs for carrying out:
(a) organization and system and subsector studies;
(b) training, mainly to improve PFIs' loan appraisal
capabilities; and
(c) activities related to the establishment of a credit
bureau, auctioning of the public debt and other reforms in the
financial sector.
2.   Provision of technical assistance to CIA and BEL for carrying
out organization and system studies and staff training.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                      (expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 1994                               2,730,000
November 15, 1994                          2,835,000
May 15, 1995                               2,940,000
November 15, 1995                          3,055,000
May 15, 1996                               3,170,000
November 15, 1996                          3,290,000
May 15, 1997                               3,415,000
November 15, 1997                          3,545,000
May 15, 1998                               3,680,000
November 15, 1998                          3,820,000
May 15, 1999                               3,965,000
November 15, 1999                          4,115,000
May 15, 2000                               4,270,000
November 15, 2000                          4,430,000
May 15, 2001                               4,600,000
November 15, 2001                          4,775,000
May 15, 2002                               4,955,000
November 15, 2002                          5,145,000
May 15, 2003                               5,340,000
November 15, 2003                          5,540,000
May 15, 2004                               5,750,000
November 15, 2004                          5,970,000
May 15, 2005                               6,195,000
November 15, 2005                          6,430,000
May 15, 2006                               6,675,000
November 15, 2006                          6,930,000
May 15, 2007                               7,190,000
November 15, 2007                          7,465,000
May 15, 2008                               7,750,000
November 15, 2008                          8,030,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                        Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day of
prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.80
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                    0.90
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years before                    1.00
maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(2) The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make with-
drawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at
the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is
substituted therefor:
"or (f) by the date specified in sub-para-
graph 4 (c) of Schedule 7 to the Loan Agreement, the
Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the Loan;
(i) have received no applications or requests under sub-
paragraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have
denied any such applications or requests. The Bank may,
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may
be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion
of the Loan shall be cancelled."


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 5
Conditions of Eligibility
for Participating in Project
1.   Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, a PFI shall not be
eligible for participating in the Project and shall not have
access to the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a) the PFI shall have revised its Statement of Policy to
the satisfaction of the Bank;
(b) in the case of IDBP and PICIC only, the PFI shall have
commenced a business diversification program satisfactory to the
Bank;
(c) in the case of NCBs and PICIC only, the PFI shall have
introduced a staffing and staff training program satisfactory to
the Bank;
(d) in the case of DFIs only, the PFI shall have maintained
the debt equity: ratio and the minimum debt service coverage ratio
specified in Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of this Agreement;
(e) the PFI shall have achieved and maintained a minimum
cash collection ratio satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be,
for each NCB, 80% of current dues, for NDFC, 85% of current dues,
for IDBP, 75% of current dues (going up to 80% of current dues in
FY90), and for PICIC, 80% of current dues under post-1981 loans;
(f) in the case of IDBP and PICIC only, the PFI shall have
adopted a plan, satisfactory the Bank, for the treatment of non-
performing assets; and
(g) the PFI and the Borrower shall have entered into a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   If a PFI shall not have fulfilled its conditions for gaining
access to the proceeds of the Loan within six months of the
signing of the Loan Agreement, the PFI shall cease to be eligible
for participating in the Project except as the Borrower and the
Bank shall otherwise agree.


﻿- 19 -
3.   If after having gained access to the proceeds of the Loan a
PFI fails to continue to comply with the conditions for such
access, the PFI shall be denied further access and, at the option
of the Bank, my cease to be eligible for continued participation
in the Project.
4.   Pursuant to Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall, beginning with the quarter next following the date
of the Loan Agreement, furnish to the Bank quarterly reports on
compliance or continuing compliance by PFIs with the conditions of
eligibility for participating in the Project set forth in this
Schedule.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions for Relending
of Loan Proceeds to PFIs
1.   Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, the proceeds of the Loan
shall be relent by the Borrower to PFIs pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of the Loan Agreement, inter alia, on the following terms and
conditions:
(a) Interest rate:                12% per annum
(b) Repayment period:             not exceeding 15 years,
including a grace period
not exceeding 3 years, each
PFI to repay on the basis
of a composite amortization
schedule of Sub-loans made
by it
(c) Principal amount to be        the aggregate equivalent
ofrepaid: the amounts in
various currencies
withdrawn from the Loan
Account expressed in rupees
determined     as of the
respective      dates    of
withdrawal
2.   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to
PFIs on a first-come first-served basis.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 7
Terms and Conditions of
and Procedures for Sub-loans
A.   Terms and Conditions
1.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the terms and
conditions of a Sub-loan shall include:
(a) Amount:                      to be    above   $750,000
equivalent but not to
exceed $6,000,000
equivalent
(b) Interest rate:               at least 15% per annum, or
such other minimum rate as
may from time to time be
established pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, such rate to
allow for a spread of at
least 3% per annum
(c) Repayment period:            not exceeding 10 years
including a grace period
determined on the basis of
the projected cash flow of
the Investment Enterprise
to which the Sub-loan is
proposed to be or has been
made
(d) Financial covenants:         (i) the Investment Project
for which the Sub-loan is
proposed to be or has been
made to have a financial
rate of return of not less
than 15%, and an economic
rate of return of not less
than 15%, and


﻿- 22 -
(ii) the Investment
Enterprise to which the
Sub-loan is proposed to be
or has been made to have
(aa) a debt: equity ratio
of not more than 60:40,
debt for this purpose
including bridge loans; and
(bb) a minimum debt service
coverage ratio of 2.0 at
full capacity, debt for
this purpose including
bridge loans
2.   The Borrower shall, not later than April 30 in each year,
beginning 1989, review with the Bank the minimum interest rate
charged for Sub-loans and shall, in order to ensure that such rate
remains positive in real terms, cause PFIs to adjust such rate for
new Sub-loans made on or after July 1 in such year.
B.   Procedures
3.   No expenditures for goods or services required for an
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a) the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made
not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received the application and information required under
paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b) the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized with-
drawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received the request and information required
under paragraph 4 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-
limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit
Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan made by a DFI or HBL or UBL or MCB,
as the case may be, for an Investment Project in an amount to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed
the sum of: (i) $3,000,000 equivalent, in the case of a DFI or HBL
or UBL, or $2,000,000 equivalent, in the case of MCB, when added


﻿- 23 -
to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any other loan,
provided for in any outstanding loan agreement between the Bank
and the Borrower, or of any credit, provided for in any
outstanding development credit agreement between the Association
and the Borrower, entered into before the date of this Agreement,
the proceeds of which have been or are being used for financing
goods and services directly and materially related to such
Investment Project, or (ii) $75,000,000 equivalent, when added to
all other free-limit Sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing amounts being
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
4.   (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval, a PFI shall furnish to the Bank an
application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i)
a description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the
Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; (iii) wherever relevant,
a statement as to the environmental impact of the Investment
Project and, where necessary, the remedial action proposed to be
taken in connection therewith; and (iv) such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by a PFI for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan; (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor; and (iii) wherever
relevant, a statement as to the environmental impact of the
Investment Project and, where necessary, the remedial action
proposed to be taken in connection therewith.
(c) Applications and requests made pursuant to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1991.
5.   Sub-loans shall be, made on terms whereby each PFI shall
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by


﻿-24 -
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Bank, the Borrower and the PFI, including the
right to:
(a) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b) require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 8 to this Agreement; and (ii) such
goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out
of the Investment Project;
(c) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d) require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods;
(e) obtain all such information as the Bank or the PFI shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the
Investment Project; and
(f) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprisa to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
contract with the PF.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 8
Procurement
1.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more
per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded through
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evalua-
tion and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines) and in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$2,000,000 per contract may be procured under contracts awarded
through the standard procedures of PFIs satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Records showing the methods of procurement of goods approved
by PFIs shall be maintained in a form satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 9
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Category" means the Category set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Category in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents


﻿- 27 -
and other evidence required pursuant to para-
graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said
documents and other evidence to have been made out
of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank
from the Loan Account under the eligible Category,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Category for Part A of the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to Part A of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category
for Part A of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such -further withdrawals


﻿- 28 -
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.   Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


