Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5591b-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PRO.JECT
May 20, 1985
South Asia Projects Office Department
General Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATE
US$1 = Indian Rupees 12
WEIGHTS AND MEASMRES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACF         -       Assistant Conservator of Foresters
Addl. CCF   -       Additional Chief Conservator of Forests
Add'I IGF   -       Additional Inspector General of Forests
CCF         -       Chief Conservator of Forests
CF                  Conservator of Forests
CIDA        -       Canadian International Development Agency
DCF         -       Deputy Conservator of Forests
DEA         -       Department of Economic Affairs
DFO         -       Divisional Forest Officer
DIGE        -       Deputy Inspector General of Forests
FD          -       Forest Department
FG          -       Forest Guard
FR          -       Forest Ranger
Fr          -       Forester
FRET        -       Forestry Research, Education and Training Project
FRI         -       Forest Research Institute
GOI         -       Government of India
GOG         -       Government of Gujarat
GOHP        -       Government of Himachal Pradesh
GOR         -       Government of Rajasthan
GOUP        -       Government of Uttar Pradesh
HP          -       Himachal Pradesh
ICAR        -       Indian Council of Agriculture Research
ICB         -       International Competitive Bidding
ICFRE       -       Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education
ICRAF       -       International Center for Research on Agroforestry
IDA         -       International Development Association
IGF         -       Inspector General of Forests
LCB         -       Local Competitive Bidding
M&E         -       Monitoring and Evaluation
NCA         -       National Commission on Agriculture
NCAER       -       National Council of Applied Economic Rerearch
NSFP        -       National Social Forestry Project
ODA         -       Overseas Development Agency
SFW         -       Social Forestry Wing
SAU         -       State Agricultural University
SIDA        -       Swedish International Development Agency
T&V         -       Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
UP          -       Uttar Pradesh
USAID       -       United States Agency for International Development
VFJW        -       Village Forestry Worker



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION .........................................................       I
II. BACKGROUND...  1
A. Forestry in India. .............                            .            1
Governmuent of India Policies for Social Forestry. .                  2
B. The Bank's Role in Indian Social Forestry             ......             3
Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project ................ . .            4
Gujarat Community Foresty Project                       ...           5
West Bengal Social Forestry Project                   . . .           6
Jamnu and Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry Project ..              7
Karnataka Social Forestry Project.                    .      .        8
Kerala Social Forestry Project           ..                           8
C. Lessons Learned         ..                                               9
TII Lessn  LeROJECT ............................................... 13
III.  THE PROJECT............................................13
A. Project Objectives and Rationale              . . .13
B. General Features                    ..               .....              13
C. Detailed Features                   ....14
Plantation Program ..........14
Nurseries and Seedling Distribution                . . .17
Plantation Techniques. . .......   18
Project Review                   ....22
Infrastructure and Institutional Support           .    . .22
Training                    ....24
Research and Studies ...... ................             ...         24
Wood Saving Devices ...... ...25
Uttar Pradesh                   ....26
Rajasthan                     ....27
Gujarat                 .... ..............                          28
Himachal Pradesh                   ....29
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND  MANAGEH       E NT. .              ..........            32
V.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ................................               36
A. Cost Estimates            ...........................................   36
B. Proposed Financing .......................................              39
C. Procurement ...............................*.............               40
l This document ha a resticed ditrbutionand may be used by rcpients only n the performance of
tbei offaiad dute Its wotents may not oterwine be disdosd without Wold Bank authoiatioa



-ii-
Table of Contents (continuation)                                      PaRe No.
qqqqqqD. Disbursement .............................................      42
E. Accounts and Audit ......     .................................    44
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING. FINANCIAL RESULTS AND COST RECOVERY         45
A. Production            .     .................                   45
B. Marketing of Produce..                             .......      46
C. Financial Results and Cost Recovery.              ....          48
VII.  BENEFITS AMND RISKS .......     ..................................  52
A. Benefits     ......................... .......................  52
Institutional Development ............. .. ..............     52
Production Impact .............      ........................  53
Conservation ...................... ....................      53
Employment Generation ............... .. ................     54
B. Economic Analysis     .................... ...................  54
C. Sensitivity Analysis ................. .. .................     56
D. Project Risks      ...................... .....................  57
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................. ...       58
List of Tables
3.01 - Plantation Program ........................................      15
3.02 - Number of Trees per Hectare, by Plantation Model ......... .    20
3.03 - Key Incremental Staff to be Added Under NSFP ............. .    23
5.01 - Project Cost Summary by State Components ................. .    37
5.02 - Summary of Project Cost by Category of Expenditure ........    38
5.03 - Project Financing          .........................................    39
5.04 - Procurement Arrangements ..................................    41
6.01 - Estimated Production at Full Development ......... .........    46
6.02 - Financial Rates of Return and Cost Recovery .............. .     40-51
7.01 - Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analyses  .........    56
List of Annexes
Annex 1-A - Expenditures on Social Forestry during tne Sixth Five Year Plan
Annex 1-B - Physical Achievements in Social Forestry during the Sixth Five
Year Plan
Annex 2 - Comparative Figures on IDA-Financed Social Forestry Projects
Annex 3 - Species Information
Annex 4 - Summary Cost Tables for Each State



-lll-
Table of Contents (continuation)
Annex 5, page 1 - Disbursement Schedule
Annex 5, page 2 - U.P. Social Forestry/Cr. 925-IN Disbursement Profile
Annex 5, page 3 - Gujarat Community Forestry Cr. 961-IN Disbursement Profile
Annex 5, page 4 - West Bengal Social Forestry Cr. 1178-IN Disbussement Profile
Annex 5, page 5 - Raryana and Jammu and Kashmir Social Forestry Cr. 1286-IN
Disbursement Profile
Annex 6 - Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
Annex 7 - Summary of Financial and Economic Prices
Annex 8 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
OrRanizational Charts
Chart 1 27197 - Proposed Organization in Uttar rradesh
Chart 2 27192 - Proposed Organization in Rajasthan
Chart 3 27198 - Proposed Organization in Gujarat
Chart 4  27203 - Proposed Organization in Himachal Pradesh
Map6
World Bank 18865 - India
World Bank 18866 - State of Gujarat
World Bank 18867 - State of Uttar Pradesh
World Bank 18868 - State of Rajasthan
World Bank 18869 - State of Uttar Pradesh
Project Files
Project files Cl through C6, listed in Annex 8, are available in printed
copies.



INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:              India.
BeNeficiaries:         The States of Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and
Uttar Pradesh and the Government of India's Ministry of
Environment and Forests.
Amount:                SDR 166.1 Million (US$165.0 M equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard.
On-lendinz Terms:     From GOI to the Governments of Gujarat, Himachal
Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh as part of Central
assistance for State development projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time. GOI would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Proiect Description:  The project would provide continuing assistance
initiated under earlier credits to two states (Uttar
Pradesh and Gujarat) to expand and improve their social
forestry activities, and would initiate investment in
two other states (Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan). It
would increase supplies of fuelvood, small timber,
poles, bamboo, fodder and other minor forest products.
It would also strengthen institutional capabilities
including the strengthening of the Central Social
Forestry Support Office, for better planning and
management of forestry resources, through provision for
additional staff, training of existing personnel,
research and additional vehicles and equipment. Wood
balance and other studies would be carried out, and
programs would be conducted to promote fuel saving
devices. There are no major project risks. However,
shortage of funds could become a problem if the States
over-extend themselves on forestry programs. To
minimize this risk the States would inform the
Association of any major developments concerning their
social forestry programs to enable the Association to
evaluate the impact, if any, which these developments
might have on project-financed activities. An
additional risk is that farmers may favor planting of
and saturate the market for higher value products.
However, wood balance studies to be undeitaken and
continuous monitoring including the proposed mid-term
review would effectvely minimize this risk.



Estimated Cost: 1/                              (US$ Million)
Local          ForeisRn         Total
Incremental Staff                   35.3              -             35.3
Civil Works                         17.2             0.9             18.1
Vehicles and Equipment               8.1             1.6              9.7
Incremental Operating Costs         21.3             0.7             22.0
Training                             3.8             0.4              4.1
Technical Assistance, Studies
and Research                       0.5              -              0.5
Plantation Activities              162.2             1.6            163.8
Total Baseline Costs               248.3             5.2            253.5
Physical Contingencies              11.2             0.3             11.5
Price Contingencies                 61.9             0.9             62.8
Total Project Costs                321.3             6.4           327.8
jj  Including taxes and duties of US$3.93 N equivalent.
Financint Plan:
Us$ Million
Local           ForeiRn           Total
GOIIGOG/GOUP/GOFP/GOR         82.3              0.5             82.8
USAID                         79.0              1.0             80.0
IDA                          160.0              5.0            165.0
TOTAL                      321.3              6.5            327.8
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ million)
IDA FY                   FY86      FY87     FY88      FY89     FY90      FY91
Annual                    17.1     25.9      32.4     37.0     36.1      16.5
Cumulative                17.1     43.0     75.4    112.4    14G.5    165.0
Rate of Return:          27x.
Appraisal Report:        No. 5591b-IN, dated May 21, 1985.



INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    The proposed National Social Forestry Project (NSFP) would be the
seventh Bank or IDA-assisted project in India designed to promote social
forestry in Rupport of increased production of fuel, small timber, pulpwood,
fodder and other minor products. As the first two states assisted by the
Bank were completing their five year projects, the Government of India (GOI)
proposed that a composite project be considered to assist them and other
states as well as to strengthen the central GoverDment's office which sup-
ports state social forestry activities. This request stems from the growing
importance being given by the Government of India to social forestry. The
Seventh Five Year Plan (1985-90) calls for a several-fold increase in invest-
ment and social forestry has become one component of the Government's Ten
Point supported programs.
1.02    In 1984 four states (Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Himachal
Pradesh) prepared proposals for financing with the help of GOI's office of
the Inspector General of Forests (IGF) and the Bank's office in New Delhi. As
other donors have been active in financing social forestry projects through-
out India, and in view of the size of the projects being brought forward, and
in an effort to coordinate assistance, the Bank and USAID agreed to appraise
NSFP jointly. This report is the result of appraisal missions in Octoberl
November 1984 and January/February 1985 consisting of Mr. D. W. Jeffries,
Mr. L. Ljungman, Ms. L. Muller, Ms. Ai-Chin Wee, Ms. T. Estoque (Bank),
Mr. D. Beesen (USAID), Dr. J. G. Campbell, Dr. P. J. Wood (ICRAF),
Mr. S. B. Palit, Mr. Raj Bhatia, and Dr. W. R. Bentley (Ford Foundation),
consultants.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Forestry in India
2.01    Of India's total land area, 23% or about 75 M ha, is designated in
land revenue records as "forests', mostly Government-owned. Increasing
pressure of population (about 722 H jJ and growing at 2% per annum) and of
cattle has resulted in ever increasing depletion and degradation of much of
the natural forests so that only about 40 M ha of this land is actually tree
covered. Deforestat5 on has taken the shape of either outright clearing for
agriculture or the slow and continuous decimation, often illegally, for
meeting the fodder, fuel and timber needs of the community and industry.
;J Based on 1981 Census figure of 684 M, with 2X annual growth



-2-
2.02    Non-commercial energy sources, including fuelvood, agricultura'
wastes and animal dung, account for more than half of the total consumption
of energy in India. Such fuel accounts for about 80Z of rural and 50Z of
urban households' energy consumption. Nearly 55% of non-commercial energy
is derived from fuelwood, obtained from reserve forests and from trees grown
on private and communal lands. Much of the fuelvood burnt is gathered by
women and an estimated 20Z of available labor in farming families is spent on
this task. Many families, however, due to the absence of forest areas near
their homes, are forced to burn only dung cake and crop residues.
2.03    While existing planting programs should be able to meet most of the
industrial requirements for hardwood and, to a lesser extent, for coniferous
pulpwood, they are inadequate for meeting the demand for fuelvood. Fuelvood
demand in the year 2000, estimated in a stldy by the National Council of
Applied Economic Research, will be 200 M m annually or roughly twice the
estimated present level. If fuelwood were substituted for half of the energy
represented bX cowdung presently burned, the total fuelwood demand Iould be
about 230 M m . Adding the annual industrial wood demand of 65 M m (com-
pared with estimated 1980 demand of 27 M m ) brings the total annual wood
demand for the year 2000 to' nearly 300 ' m3, equivalent to some 20 to 30 M ha
of mature plantation. Recognizing that fuelwood will continue to be an
important source of energy, the Government of India (GOI) is focusing
increased attention on the development and management of fuelwood resources.
Government of India Policies for Social Forestry
2.04    As an awareness grew amongst administrators as to the implications
of the social, economic and ecological consequences created by continuing
degradation of forests, two conclusions became apparent: first, that tradi-
tional development and management of government owned forest resources would
not succeed in providing the rural and urban population with their basic
needs for forestry products and second, that development of forest resources
cutside the traditional reserve forests through active participation of local
communities would be required to help break the vicious circle created by
encroachment and the shortages of fuelwood, fodder and small timber.
Although during the 1950's and 60's increasing emphasis was given to plant-
ings on farm, village and communal lands, from the First to the Fourth Five
Year Plans (1951-74), schemes which could be classified as social forestry
received only 9.1% of total forest development investment. Toward the end of
the Fourth Plan, the National Commission on Agriculture (NCA) made a compell-
ing plea for a change in the traditional approach, recommending that forest
resources should be developed outside the reserved and protected forests
through a well organized social forestry program, with active participation
of the local community. GOI accepted these recommendations and introduced a
massiv2 program of social forestry throughout India. In the country's Fifth
(1974-79) and Sixth (1980-85) Plans, social forestry was allocated 49% and



-3-
781, respectively, of total sectoral allocations and 46Z and 70Z, respec-
tively, of total forestry planting targets.
2.05    Although social forestry development is a state responsibility, GOI
assists through a number of centrally sponsored schemes, which finance half
the plantation costs. During the Sixth Plan, about 1.9 M ha came under these
schemes out of a total of about 4 H ha put under social forestry (Annex 1,
Table lb) accounting for expenditures of over Rs 2,164 1 (Annex 1, Table la).
The above figures include farm forestry under which some 3,720 H seedlings
vere distributed to individual growers. The largest of these schemes,
measured by planting area, is the Small and Marginal Farmers Program, started
in 1983-84 with 0.8 M ha planted; the other programs, of 0.35 N ha planted
each, are the Rural Fuelwood Program, Drought Prone Areas Program and
National Rural Employment Program. In addition, statewide projects with
external financial assistance are being implemented in the states of Gujarat,
Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Haryana, Jarmu and Kashmir, Karnataka and Kerala
(World Bank-assisted, Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir with DANIDA and Karnataka
with ODA), Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra (USAID-assisted), Tamil Nadu and
Orissa (SIDA-assisted) and Andhra Pradesh (CIDA-assisted". These projects
account for 0.68 million ha planted and over Rs 2,500 M in expenditures
during the Sixth Plan period. Unlike expenditures under centrally-sponsored
schemes which go to direct plantation costs, donor-assisted projects also
help to finance incremental staff, civil works and vehicles. Finally, the
states operate their own social forestry programs which during the Sixth Plan
period account for 1.3 M ha planted and over Rs 3,000 M in expenditures.
2.06    Of the present India-wide tree planting of some billion seedlings
annually (roughly equivalent to 0.67 M ha), about half is planted through
farm forestry (by farmers on their own land). The rest is planted by the
state forest departments in commercial plantations (30%) and social forestry
plantations (20%).
2.07    Under the Seventh Plan, currently being formulated, resources allo-
cated for social forestry are expected to increase several fold from those of
the Sixth Plan.
B. The Bank's Role in Indian Social Forestry
2.08    The Bank's first intervention in the forestry sector, the
Nadhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project (Credit 609-IN, December
1975), was directed primarily towards the development of plantations for the
pulp and paper industry. Since then, the main thrust of Bank Group opera-
tions in this sector has been in social forestry development, with six
projects covering seven states. The status of these projects is summarized
below. Each of these projects had the objective of increasing the supply of
fuelvood and providing poles, small timber, fodder and other minor forest



-4-
products to those living rural areas, with special concern for increasing
employment and fuelwood supplies for marginal farmers and the landless, of
increasing production of wood products from government and village waste
lands and strengthening the social forestry organization within State Forest
Departments. In addition to these projects, the Kandi Watershed and Area
Development Project (Ln. 1897-IN, $30 M, July 1980), the Himalayan Watershed
Management Project (Ln. 2295-IN, $46.2 M, June 1983) and the Rainfed Areas
Watershed Development Project (Cr. 1424-IN, $31.0 M, February 1984) also
include substantial components for reforestation and pasture development.
2.09    The relative emphasis on different types of plantation components
has changed in Bank-financed social forestry (Annex 2), as it has in social
forestry generally in India. The initial projects were not expected to
invest heavily in farm forestry as little information was available as to
whether or not farmers would plant trees on their holdings. Farm forestry
has, however, grown rapidly, far exceeding appraisal targets. The projects
also provide for improved extension, linked to the Training and Visit System
of agricultural extension, where it exists, in order to help farmers to
upgrade their agroforestry practices, improving inservice training,
strengthening agro-forestry research within the state, introduction of more
fuel efficient cooking stoves and crematoria, and strengthening monitoring
and evaluation.
Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry (Cr. 925-IN. US$23.0 M. June 21. 1979)
2.10    This was the Bank's first social forestry project in India.  It
called for the establishment of 8,000 ha of village woodlots, 27,000 ha of
strip plantations along roads, canals and railways, rehabilitation of 13,600
ha of degraded government owned forest and the provision of seedlings for
4,000 ha of farm forestry. The project was completed on schedule and the
credit closed December 31, 1984. A Project Completion Report is being
prepared and will be available later in 1985.
2.11    In terms of physical targets, the project has generally exceeded the
overall targets set at appraisal, with about 76,000 ha of plantations
achieved on government and community wastelands (i.e., not counting farm
forestry) compared with about 48,600 ha proposed for the five-year period of
the project. Survival rates on various plantation schemes are satisfactory.
The farm forestry component has proved the most surprising, however, with the
response of farmers to planting trees on their own lands far exceeding expec-
tations. Compared with the original goal of 8 M seedlings, over 500 M (equiv-
alent to 349,000 ha) 11 have been distributed. To handle both farm forestry
and departmental plantation seedling requirements, a total of 1,037 new
nurseries was established.
1/ Equivalent ha figured by dividing number of seedlings by 1500.



-5-
2.12    Despite these substantial overall achievements, the project fell
short in several areas. Implementation of the civil works program, designed
to support field activities, was neglected in favor of staff being diverted
to expanding seedling production. There was also a shortfall in procurement
of vehicles needed to improve staff mobility. The self-help village woodlots
component lagged, with 136 ha established against a target of 3,080 ha, since
poor villagers proved unwilling to contribute their labor as expected in
exchange for rather limited potential benefits which would flow to a group
sharing the produce from a small woodlot (about 2 ha.) after many years'
protection and maintenance. As project implementation progressed, several
other deficiencies have become apparent. The project did not cover effec-
tively the eastern part of the state, where the smaller farms and landless
poor are concentrated as the social forestrv organization lacked relevant
know-how and resources to deal with the sociological and technical problems
associated with densely cultivated areas and very small farms. The State has
been slow to decide on the management system to be applied and on the mode of
distribution of the produce from departmental plantations, although many are
reaching maturity. The Uttar Pradesh extension services for social forestry
are weak, with neither development of an effective departmental extension
network nor systematic linkage with the agricultural extension organization.
The latter, however, is shortly to be reorganized and strengthened with IDA
assistance. In addition, monitoring and evaluation capability and research
activities have made a slow start and need strengthening. The Government of
Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) recognizes these problems and they would be addressed in
the proposed project (para 3.24). Finally, the dissemination of
fuel-efficient stoves seems to have been done more effectively by voluntary
groups and services organizations than under the auspices of Forest Depart-
ment, as had been envisioned at project appraisal.
Guiarat Community Forestry Proiect (Cr. 961-IN. US$37.0 M. April 24. 1980)
2.13    The project calls for the establishment of 37,440 ha of village
woodlots, 30,000 ha of reafforestation of government-owned degraded forests,
1,000 ha of privately owned and heavily eroded lands, establishment of 37,000
ha of strip plantations along roads, canals and railways, and the provision
of 30 M seedlings to farmers to plant on 20,000 ha of privately-owned land.
The physical planting targets for the project have been completed ahead of
schedule, only the self-help village woodlot component falling somewhat below
original targets with about 6,000 ha of the 9,200 ha targetted having been
planted to date. Survival rates have been satisfactory. The credit is
likely to be fully disbursed by the end of June 1985, six months before the
original closing date. While the primary objective of the project was to
increase fuelwood supplies in rural areas, due to prevailing high prices of
wood, most of the wood produced on private holdings is expected to go for
commercial, non-fiLelwood purposes. Nevertheless, given the acute shortage of
wood in the state. the project is contributing to relieving the pressure on
existing forests and, therefore, indirectly is helping fuelvood supply,



-6-
particularly for the rural poor. About 20% of Gujarat farmers and a substan-
tial number of landless laborers are likely to become self-sufficient in
fuelvood from lop, top and fallen wood from project plantations. Furthermore,
the majority of farmers benefitting from the farm forestry component are
small and marginal (under 4 ha) who have planted three-fourths of the seed-
lings distributed under farm forestry, the rest going to larger farmers.
Gu-.arat has made particularly impressive progress in developing a network of
small, decentralized "kissan" nurseries (operated by private farmers) and
school nurseries. It has successfully introduced low-cost seedling produc-
tion and distribution methods such as basketing and direct seeding. It has
also been the most successful among states vith Bank-financed projects in
introducing fuel saving stoves and crenatoria, having already exceeded the
targets of 10,000 stoves and 1,000 crepmtoria by 10%. Private and voluntary
groups have made important contributions to dissemination of these devices.
Recognizing the problems associated vith village voodlot development, the
state has introduced two innovative schemes to benefit the landless, Social
Security Plantations and Malki Planuations. Under the former, landless tribal
farmers are settled in groups of ten families on denuded goverment forest
land as full-time employees of the forest department (FD). Under the Malki
scheme, the FD plants trees on half of the land (maximum 1 ha per farmer) for
those who have settled on encroached and eroded, formerly protected forest
land. At harvest, costs of plantation establishment and subsistence allowan-
ces are to be recovered by the Department, leaving the net profit to the
farmer. Progress on research has been unsatisfactory in terms of producing
relevant findings based on good research methodology.  Civil works, and
vehicle and equipment procurement are substantially behind appraisal
schedule, and about 15% of staff positions (especially of Guards and Rangers)
rsmAin unfilled, mainly as a result of the Agricultural Department undertak-
ing increased responsibility for extension. But these lags have not caused
serious problems in overall project performance.
West Beu2al Social Forestry Proiect (Cr. 1178-IN. US$29.0 M. February 24. 1982)
2.14    Over a six-year period, the proiect will establish 6,000 ha of vil-
lage woodlots, 20,000 ha of plantings along roads, railways and water cour-
ses, and 52,000 ha of forests on private land and will rehabilitate 15,000 ha
of government owned degraded forests. It will also construct a Forest Train-
ing Center and expand the West Bengal Forest School.  Physical planting
targets are being exceeded by about 45%, particularly in farm forestry;
however, due to budget restrictions, most plantings by the FD have been
carried out by the existing territorial forest divisions rather than by
expanding the Social Forestry Wing as called for under the project. Conse-
quently, most planting has taken place in areas where there is enough forest
to justify a territorial division and, as a result, five western districts
have accounted for three-fourths of the area planted even though they have
only one-third of the total population. Only about one-fourth of the total
field level social forestry staff thought needed vere in position at
mid-project period but another 40% of these posts have been sanctioned. Lower



-7-
level staff such as Foresters and Forest Extension Workers were most
affected. These shortages, compounded by lack of staff mobility due to
non-procurement of vehicles required, are reflected in lover quality exten-
sion services and research, lower survival rates and growth rates, and
limitation of areas (and numbers of farmers) benefiting from the project.
Finally, virtually no progress has been made on promotion of improved stoves,
because forest department field staff lack the time and orientation, and
because the technology used was not appropriate for West Bengal.
2.15    Considering the constraints imposed by lack of funds, physical
progress has been generally good. Farm forestry has exceeded SAR goals,
departmental plantations have generally gone according to plan, although
village woodlots have encountered problems as in othar states. West Bengal
has been innovative in promoting 'group farm forestz3  vhere the landless and
poor farmers can take up to one hectare of governmenc wasteland for affores-
tation and are given rights to the trees but not to the land. Group farm
forestry has grown rapidly, accounting for about 360 ha during 1982183, 2,000
ha during 1983/84 and 5,009 ha in 1984/85, or half of the farm forestry
target. West Bengal has also made strides in using vomen in field staff as
'tmotivators' .
2.16    As a result of the mid-term review recently completed, several
adjustments have been agreed in the original project composition. In par-
ticular, some village voodlots targets have been shifted to farm forestry.
Revisions to the technical models for farm forestry were suggested as well as
measures to strengthen research and field staffing, and dissemination and
application of research results.
JamUm and Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry Project
(Cr. 1286-IN. US$33.0 M. September 7. 1982: DANIDA. US$4.0 M)
2.17    The project vill, over a five-year period, establish 17,000 ha of
village woodlots, 19,500 ha of plantings along roads, railways and water
courses, 49,000 ha of plantings on private land, 15,000 ha of plantations
on sand dunes, 2,000 ha of plantations on vet lands, and 500 ha of plantings
on alkali lands and rehabilitate 17,000 ha of degraded government owned
forest. Although both states have fulfilled their targets for 1983/84 and
made adequate arrangements to meet 1984/85 planting targets, disbursements
are only about 50% of appraisal estimates. This reflects the high level of
vacancies in the social forestry departments and the lag in important support
activities. Coordination with the T&V system for extension has been estab-
lished in Haryana. A similar linkage between agricultural and forestry
extension has been agreed to by J&K when the T&V system becomes operative in
that state under the Second National Agricultural Extension Project approved
by the Executive Directors Narch 22, 1985. Haryana, however, has faced
organizational problems since tvo separate entities were implementing the
social forestry program; these problems are being addressed by the current
mid-term review mission. The forest department of J&K has been reluctant to



-8-
recruit lower level staff until the introduction of the proposed extension
project is determined. Modification of some plantation targets and staffing
plans is being worked out with the Bank in light of initial experience in
these states. For example, unlike many states, J&K has done particularly
well with its village woodlots and will increase its woodlot goals while
reducing those for degraded forests.
Karnataka Social Forestry Project (Cr. 1432-IN, US$27.0 M,
February 8. 1984: ODA. US$23.0 M)
2.18    In addition to the distribution of 600 M seedlings, the project is
supporting departmental plantations including: 20,000 ha on "gomal" (cultiv-
able wasteland used as common grazing grounds) and agriculturally unproduc-
tive goverment wasteland; 3,000 ha on foreshores of irrigation tanks; 4,000
ha of strip plantations along roads and canals and 2,000 ha of bamboo planta-
tions. Plantation programs exceeded targets during the first year and met
1984/85 targets as well. However, the "gomal" lands component has
experienced many of the same problems of other village voodlot approaches,
and hence will be reallocated to group farm forestry on government waste-
lands. Some acceleration of the plantation program is being considered.
This would require earlier sanctioning and provision of social forestry staff
than agreed at appraisal. However, delays in sanctioning of staff have been
of some concern, but recruitment is now underway. The state has maJe a good
start in decentralizing seedling production and distribution, particularly
important ir this project since farm forestry accounts for 80% of plantation
targets. The project does not provide for promotion of improved stoves, but
this is being done by various organizations under other development programs.
Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr. 1514-IN. US$32 M. December 12. 1984)
2.19    Plantations would be established on the equivalent of about 69,000 ha
of private land, 12,000 ha on government block plantations, 2,000 ha on strip
areas and 2,100 ha for special tribal schemes. In addition, the project aims
establishing a network of small, family-operated nurseries to facilitate
better distribution and extension services to farmers.
2.20    Although the credit only became effective in March 1985, it provides
for retroactive financing to January 1984. Progress during the first year on
all components has been good, including farm forestry which accounts for 80X
of plantation goals. Initially, seedling production and plantation
activities fell somewhat below schedule due to slow release of funds and
staffing constraints, due to slow recruitment procedures.



-9-
C. Lessons Learned
2.21    The Bank's experience with social forestry in India is relatively
brief, with the first projects just completing five years of implementation.
Nevertheless, many useful lessons have been learned and are constantly being
used to improve social forestry programs. This is particularly relevant to
organizational arrangements for social forestry.
2.22    OrRanization.  Some of the earlier concepts of the organization
needed for social forestry require modification in light of experience. In
all projects staffing arrangements have not been as anticipated. Some reduc-
tions in staff targets have been possible; for example, with greater depend-
ence on using the existing agricultural extension services for social
forestry, fewer staff thai: supposed earlier are required to provide exten-
sion. Similarly, experience has shown that it is not necessary to set up a
separate social forestry organization within the forest department in all
states, although this may be the preferred route in some larger states, where
state forests are limited and there are large numbers of small farmers in
intensively cultivated areas. Forest departments have already transferred
some staff to social forestry activities as well as started modifying the
traditional forestry administration to include social forestry. As a conse-
quence, the more recent projects and the proposed project provide for fever
incremental field staff and give more emphasis to retraining of existing
staff and broader training of new staff. Some uncertainty remains, however,
as to the best overall organization of state forestry activities, e.g., the
degree of separation of social and traditional activities and staff, and
whether the most effective administrative division of field activities should
be along the same block lines as other related rural development and agricul-
tural extension organizations. EIn addition, some social forestry schemes in
the states are under the jurisdiction of other agencies than the forest
department, although they are for the most part carried out by the forest
department. The coordination of all such schemes within a state would seem
desirable and under the proposed NSFP the States have agreed that by March
31, 1988 they would carry out studies of the organizational issues in state
forest departments which would include, among other things, the relationship
of various social forestry schemes.  While the extent that the center can
influence state organization of such activities is somewhat lirited, the
central Ministry of Environment and Forests Social Forestry Support Office
would take appropriate note of the results of these studies in its capacity
of bringing together the experiences of all states undertaking social
forestry programs.



-10-
2.23    Fuelvood Production.  The primary stated purpose of early projects
was to produce fuelvood particularly for the rural poor. Although quantita-
tive goals have been met or exceeded in all states, initial benefits have
gone only indirectly to that primary target population. At the same time,
tree farming by individual farmers has proved far more popular and cost
effective than was originally expected. While only a small part of the
earlier projects was aimed at farm forestry, this has become a major focus in
later projects; however, due to veaknesses in extension and lack of
appropriate agroforestry research, and because of lack of adequate staff
numbers, resources and training, it has been harder to reach the really poor
and smaller farmers. Moreover, most of the main stemwood planted by
individual farmers has gone into commercial channels, vith the majority of
species being planted for poles, timber, pulpwood and fuel, in that order.
There is obviously a desire for early and the most lucrative returns. Thus,
vhile farm forestry is very cost effective and helps raise farmers- standard
of living, and a large volume in lop and top of the tree goes for fuelwood,
experience has shown that social forestry must devise direct channels for
meeting fuelvood needs of the poor, as another part of its program. In this
respect, previous approaches to village woodlots would need to be revised
because generation of cash income to meet other development needs is more
important to the panchayats establishing woodlots than providing fuel for the
less fortunate. Plantations on common and government wastelands devoted
specifically to fuelvood production would give greater potential benefits to
the primary target groups; however, costs must be reduced in current models
so as to increase the amount available for distribution after cost recovery.
2.24    Cost Reduction.  Early social forestry plantation models are now
considered to be overly expensive. Use of barbed wire may double the costs
of public plantations without providing effective protection. Earlier hand-
over of management of community plantations by forest department to
beneficiaries also reduces direct costs to the forest department. Decentral-
ized seedling production and distribution can also reduce costs (para 2.29).
2.25    Distribution of ProducelBenefits.  Forest departments and village
panchayats have proved slow to develop detailed plans for distribution of the
harvest from plantations. Many of these plantations are reaching maturity
and decisions on distribution of produce are overdue and must be made. Dif-
ficulties in identifying the beneficiaries and of distribution to them create
institutional burdens for forest departments and panchayats vhich they seem
unxilling or unable to bear.
2.26    The above does not mean that the poor have not benefited at all from
past efforts. Until trees planted have reached maturity, sub6tantial
benefits are derived from twigs, fodder, thatching, fruit and other
by-products of growing trees. A major impact has also come from employment
generation by village woodlots and departmental plantations. Since forestry
work is mainly seasonal (two to three months a year), most work has gone to



-11-
landless persons, often women, who do not have regular farming respon-
sibilities of their own.
2.27    Support Services.  Forest departments have now recognized shortcom-
ings in not reaching the rural poor to the extent expected. They have begun
improving extension, research, monitoring and evaluation and other support
services. This has entailed not only supplying more of the staff, vehicles
and other resources needed for strong field work, but also the design of
special programs to reach a broader spectrum of the rural population. One
such program has been the formation of linkages between forestry and agricul-
tural extension services. Considerable improvement is still needed in prac-
tical research, especially on agroforestry.
2.28    Group Farm Forestry.  Programs involving the landless and poor on
government wasteland or common marginal land are being tried in some states
(e.g., West Bengal and Social Security Plantations and Malki Plantations in
Gujarat) with considerable success. Such schemes represent an innovative
way of reaching the target group and are a cost effective means of using
otherwise unproductive land. They offer higher incentives to the par-
ticipants and are easier to administer than other plantation models as they
do not require detailed plans for distribution of the produce. Care must be
exercised, however, in such schemes not to give a greater subsidy than needed
and thus limit the number of potential participants by concentrating avail-
able resources on a few.
2.29    Decentralized Nurseries.  To ensure the maximum participation by
smal'- farmers, nurseries must be decentralized and widely scattered as these
farmers lack resources to transport seedlings over large distances. Small
nurseries, especially those run by farm families, schools and non-government
groups, have proved efficient and require less investment than large central-
ized nurseries run by the forest department. Other cost reducing practices
which are being developed include direct sowing of suitable species by
farmers, providing seedlings in baskets ("basketing") and seed "minikits."
2.30    Seedling Distribution Policies.  There is no uniform policy in India
on the pricing policy and limits on free seedling distribution, and states
generally subsidize seedlings given to farmers. Even those which have a
policy of charging for seedlings have distributed large amounts free under
various centrally-sponsored schemes which have required them to do so. Such
subsidization no longer appears needed to promote farm forestry. To ensure
more equitable distribution of farm forestry benefits and to improve cost
recovery, free seedlings for farm forestry should be limited to what small
farmers need for self-sufficiency in terms of fuel and small timber.
2.31    Fuel-Saving Devices.  Forest department staff have been generally
less successful at promoting fuel-saving devices than voluntary and other
non-governmental organizations, because FD staff lack the training and orien-
tation necessary, have trouble communicating since most field staff are men



-12-
but users are women, and tend to prefer plantation work. In the future,
social forestry projects should continue to promote fuel-saving devices, but
encourage active involvement by groups best suited to this purpose, and
supply the engineering and sociological expertise to ensure appropriate
design.
2.32    Monitoring and Evaluation.  Recognition of the crucial need for
effective monitoring and evaluation in projects as innovative and large-scale
as social forestry led to the incorporation of M&E units in the Bank's pre-
vious projects in U.P., Gujarat, and other states. The primary purpose of
these units was to develop systematic methods for collecting and analyzing
information useful to project management and to measure and evaluate the
economic and social changes induced by the project. Operationalizing these
units has proved to be more difficult than anticipated. This has been a
result of the low priority given to M&E in the past. However, establishing
and filling new positions has always been a time consuming endeavor and in
the context of H&E the lack of the relevant social science skills among
forest officers has made this problem worse. For these reasons, the GOI
requested the Bank and FAO to provide assistance in developing practical
guidelines for a system of H&E which could be used throughout the country
(para 4.06).
2.33    Central Support.  While the office of the Inspector General of
Forests (IGF) has attempted to assist states in project preparation, to help
design and implement a uniform monitoring and evaluation system and to review
projects' progress, its involvement has necessarily been constrained by
limitations in staff numbers 1/ and budget. The center could more effectively
support states in several areas: promotion of consistency and complemen-
tarity among centrally-sponsored schemes, donor-assisted projects and state
schemes; assumption of greater responsibility in assisting states to design
social forestry schemes, and in monitoring and evaluating them; facilitation
of exchange of experience among states; undertaking of overview studies; and
generally, provision of technical assistance, training, and special support
where appropriate.
Oj Until recently, only two upper level staff were assigned, and even then
not entirely full-time; some of the posts for project formulation have
been sanctioned and part filled in the past year.



-13-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives and Rationale
3.01    The project's primary objectives are to (i) increase production of
fuelvood, small timber, poles and fodder; (ii) increase rural employment,
farmers' incomes and opportunities for participation of landLess persons;
(iii) afforest degraded areas and wasteland and reduce soil erosion; and (iv)
strengthen forestry institutions. The first phase social forestry projects
have substantially con:ributed tovards meeting commercial demand for poles
and small timber, and raising incomes of land owners, but have fallen short
of ensuring that the weaker sections of the population benefit in terms of
access to wood products and increased community participation in social
forestry development activities. The proposed project will help achieve
these goals through (i) refocusing operations (plantation types, choice of
species, dispersion of nurseries and seedling distribution policies) to
increase the share of the benefits which would reach small and marginal
farmers and the landless; and (ii) improving operating efficiency, reducing
costs and helping the states to rationalize the organization of forestry
departments. Furthermore, the project would assist in strengthening support
activities including research, training, extension, and monitoring and
evaluation. It would provide for the agricultural extension services to
supplement the flow of techni_al agro-forestry information going to
individual farm households through state forestry extension systems. It
would emphasize monitoring and evaluation at both the state and central
levels in order to assist the process of developing improved technological
packages by analyzing cost effective approaches to social forestry.
B. General Features
3.02    The proposed five-year project would provide continuing assistance
initiated under earlier credits to two states (Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat) to
expand and improve their social forestry activities and would initiate
investment in two other states (Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan). The project
would also strengthen the Social Forestry Support Office in the Ministry of
Environment and Forests to enable it to perform more effectively a coordinat-
ing, support and policy guidance role in the development of social forestry
throughout India. While the basic approach to social forestry is common to
all participating states, adjustments have been made to take account of many
differing factors: agro-ecological and social conditions; demographic fea-
tures; land use, tenure and tenancy laws; the legal basis for forestry
development; existing forestry institutions and past experience with social
forestry; wood consumption, requirements and supplies of fuelwood, timber and
fodder; current forest conditions; forestry and forest-based industries in



-14-
the state economy. Such background information for the four participating
states is summarized in Project Files Cl-C4. Summaries of each state's
Seventh Plan targets in social forestry by program, including that under
NSFP, together with any special features for the state subproject are given
in the section following. Further details on the central Social Forestry
Support Office are given in the Project Files C5. Project File C5 also
covers subjects of common interest, e.g., monitoring and evaluation, training
curricula, improved stoves and crematoria, social impact and benefit. Over-
all project costs are given in Tables 5.01 and 5.02.
C. Detailed Features - State Subproiects
3.03    To meet the general objectives of social forestry development and
to suit differing requirements of each state, several types of activity or
plantation models are called for, the general categories being:
agro-forestry, participative tree tenure schemes targeted at landless persons
and marginal farmers (normally on government wasteland), plantations on
community wasteland, and departmental plantations on government wasteland.
These may be planted in strips, blocks, or in the case of agroforestry,
interplanted with agricultural crops. The trees may be planted, maintained
and managed by farmers, by groups of villagers or local panchayats, or by the
forest department, either on its own behalf or for others. The design for
these very different plantations differs considerably with the number of
trees per ha planted, generally ranging from 1,000 to 3,000. Table 3.01
shows the overall plantation targets for the projecr. A brief general
description of these activities is followed by more specific data for each
state's programs under NSFP (paras 3.24-3.27).
Plantation Program
3.04    Agroforestry.  (a) Farm forestrv would account for by far the largest
plantation component in all participating states, totalling nearly half a
million equivalent hectares. It yields the highest benefits to farmers,
costs the least (about one-fifth the cost of plantation on government land),
and gives the farmer control over the choice of species and use of the
product. Most plantings are likely to occur on individually owned marginal
and submarginal land 'hich provides little other agricultural return, on farm
boundaries, bunds, around the homestead and along water channels.



-15-
Table 3.01: PLARTTION PROGRAM
(Equivalent Hectares)
Uttar                            Himachal              Percent
Plantation Catetory                             Pradesh   Raiasthan   Cujarat   Pradesh        Total      Total
A. Asroforestr, (Private Lands)
Far. Forestry
(seedling distribution) S/                  134,000     80,000      200,000    53,000    467,000         71X  !J
Private Wasteland  Planting hi                 -            -         30,500    13,000      43,500        5Z  !J
Improved (grafted) Orchards c/                 -          4,000          -         -         4,000        1%  Ml
B. Tree Tenure, Poor + Landlems
(Government Landsa Beneficiary Hananed)
Strip Plaintations d/                         1,210                      -          -        1,210       .5%  nl
HouseholdlGroup Farm Forestry p1             11,000       7,500          -          833     19/333        2X  o/
Arjun Plantations fI                          1,000         -            -          -        1,000       .5X  pl
C. Cosuunity Wasteland Plantations
(Com_unity Lands, Panchavat Mana ed)
Commnity Woodlots (Rainfed) 8J               14,000       5,000       20,000    41,000      80,000        9X  ol
Co_uunity Woodlots (Irrigated) ki               -           -          5.000        -        5.000        1%  o/
Tree Fodder Plantations ii                      -           -         10,000        -       10,000        1X  o/
D. Government Wasteland Plantations
(Government Land. Government Managed)
Rehabilitated Degraded Forest. ij               -        20,000       30.400     5,000      55,400      6.5%  p/
Strip Plantation.  J                            740       4,300       15,000       -        20,040        2X  Al
Fuelvood Plantations                            -           -          2500         -        2500         5Z.   p
Total Plantation.                              161.950    120,800       313,400   112,833    708.983       100%
aJ Hectares based on 1,500 trees/ha.
_I Species mix in HP 80% broadleaved, 20% conifer; in Gujarat 80% broadleaved, 5-10% Eucalpytue. 10-15Z misc.
Trees/ha in HP 500; Gujarat 2,000.
S/ Rajasthan comprises improved Ber (Zizyphus muritania) grafted onto existing rootstocks; 100 trees/ha.
A/ UP: mainly mixed fuelvood with up to 15-20% of trees for fruit, edible flowersa seeds and small timber;
3,120 to 3,600 trees/ha.
ej Mixture of fuelvood, fruit, and fooder producing species; no Eucalyptua used. In HP, balf broadleaved
and half conifers.  Tree/ha in UP 2,500; Rajasthan 1,670; HP 1,100.
1J Pilot operation in UP using Terminalia ariun for silk productionlor fuelvood, 5,000 trees/ha.
BI) Lowland states (UP, Rajasthan, Gujarat) eaphasize fuelvood, fruits and other edible products. small tinber
and grass fodder. More bamboo in Gujarat vhile HP emphasizes conifers, providing fuel, poles and fodder.
Trees/ha in UP 2,500, Rajasthan 1,600, Gujarat 1,750, UP 1.100. The 41,000 bectares in HP includes
1,000 ha under pilot "self-help"/Panchayat management and 40.000 ha rainfed under Forest Department
management.
i Gujarat high technology model, objective maximmu biomass production; half Eucalvytus treticornis.
a third Leucaena leucocenhala and the rest miscellaneous hardwoods and bamboo; iO.000 trees/ha.
jJ Gujarat: High technology model designed to produce fodder from grasses and trees (100 trees/ba).
j/ Rajasthan: Species Prosopis iuliflora/chilenais- both planted (1,320 trees/ha) and direct sown (higher
density), producing grasses fodder, fodder pods and fuelvood.
Gujarat:  80% mixed broadleaved species for fuel and small timber; 20% Eucalvytus  Leucaena and bamboos.
BP: mostly high altitude Pinus roxburghii (Chir or Chil pine), 2.000 trees/ha.
xJ Roadside rows generally ornamental and not harvested; the rest: mixed rest fuel and pole species.
Trees/ha in UP 2.500-3,1000, Rajasthan 1,300-2,000, Gujarat 2.500.
]J Gujarat: Misc. broadleaves with some Eucalvutua; 2.500 treesiha.
) Agroforestry/farm forestry totals 77Z.
ul Strip plantations total 2.5Z.
oJ Village woodlots total 13%.
pj Block/degraded forests total 7.5Z.



-16-
The only direct cost to forest departments would be in seedling production,
but a substantial part of the social forestry extension and monitoring and
evaluation effort vould be directed to the farm forestry components. (b)
Private wasteland plantinu on eroded land accounting for 43,500 total hec-
tares in the project, would differ from farm forestry because of increased
input by (and cost to) the forest departments. It would assist in plantation
establishment, and would provide an incentive payment during initial months
to the farmers owning the land involved in order to compensate them for
income foregone while they work on the plantation. The forest departments,
applying their own existing rules, would have to ascertain that the land was
seriously eroded or in imminent danger of erosion, and hence of concern for
conservation, which would justify higher government investment than under
farm forestry. To give planting and other technical advice to farmers,
forest departments would make extensive use of the agricultural extension
service (para 3.18). (c) Improved (grafted) orchards consisting of fruit
bearing bushes (Zizyphus mauritania) would be developed on farmers land.
Farmers would sell the fruit and could also use lop for fuel.
3.05    Tree Ownership Scbemes for Poor and Landless.  (a) Household/group
farm forestry would compose the largest proportion of plantation in this
category (20,000 ha, mainly in U.P., 11,000 ha, and Rajasthan, 7,500 ha).
Government wasteland, unfit for agriculture but fit for agroforestry, would
be transferred from other government departments to the forest department.
In turn, the department would consult with adjacent communities to designate
landless persons and marginal farmers to use on a fixed term basis 0.5 to 2
ha of wasteland where they would plant trees and have ownership over those
trees.  (b) Tree tenure strip plantations would be attempted for the first
time by U.P., on 1,210 ha. of road, rail and canal strips. Poor persons
would be identified to participate; each would establish and care for a
length of strip plantation (equivalent to about 0.5-2 ha) and would have
ownership over the trees. (c) Ariun plantations would be undertaken on a
trail basis on 1,000 ha in Uttar Pradesh on highly alkaline soils which have
practically no other use. To ensure adequate protection of beneficiaries in
the above models, each state would review current arrangements and where
Government Orders and instructions, including proforma agreements, are not
comprehensive, specifying the selection criteria, timing and terms for
occupation of land by the beneficiary and the disposition of benefits, the
state would take appropriate remedial action by December 31, 1985. Assuran-
ces on the above were obtained during negotiations.
3.06    Plantations on Commmunity Wasteland.  In collaboration with panchayat
village organizations, plantations would be established on community owned
wasteland, most of it rainfed (80,000 ha) but some irrigated (5,000). Gujarat
would also provide for tree fodder plantation (10,000 ha) in areas adjacent
to townships and in areas of low rainfall. Unlike "village woodlot" schemes
in previous years, this approach would entail formulation of a written agree-
ment with the community before planting denoting intended beneficiaries of
fallen wood, leaves, and fodder, and disposition of the final product. It



-17-
would also ensure early transfer of responsibilities to the community for
protection, maintenance, and plantation establishment where possible. This
would result in lower costs being incurred and later recovered by forest
department, leaving higher benefits for the community. The forest department
would recover direct costs at harvest, with the balance of produce/sales
income going to the community.
3.07    Departmental Plantations on Government Land.  (a)  Rehabilitation
of Degraded Forests would be carried out on 52,900 ha, but only when such
land was governed by regulations which would enable suitable distribution of
benefits. Although such plantations involve less participation than the
schemes described above, they are justified economically by their production
of fuelvood, small timber and poles, and fodder which would be directed in
large part to the rural poor, and by their employment generation and conser-
vation effects. Forest department staff would supervise planting, main-
tenance, protection, harvesting and distribution of benefits. Adjacent
villagers would derive additional benefits by cutting grass within the plan-
tation for fodder and collecting fallen wood, leaves and thinnings, as agreed
with forest department staff. (b) Strip Plantations. These plantings
(total of 20,000 ha) on government reserves along roads, railways, canals,
and embankments are of varying width but usually wide enough to support
several rows of trees. Costs of establishment and protection are relatively
high due to difficulty of protection. In the past, public authorities have
been reluctant to harvest mature plantations because of their aesthetic
value; but strip plantations under the project would be restricted to sites
where the strip is wide enough to support sufficient rows to allow for
progressive harvesting. (c) Fuelwood plantations (2500 ha.) would be estab-
lished for high growth, short rotation production of wood, and targeted at
areas of high fuelwood demand in Gujarat.
Nurseries and Seedling Distribution
3.08    Under the project some 700 M seedlings would be produced in project-
financed nurseries. All state subprojects support development of a large
number of small, widely dispersed nurseries, moving away from large, central
and forest department owned nurseries. These may be on family holdings with
land rented and family labor hired, or with seedlings grown on a contract
basis, or on forest department land, supervised by department staff and run
by hired labor, or on school grounds and run by children and staff. Small
nurseries have the advantages of being near to farmers and thus reducing
transportation costs for seedling distribution. They also provide con-
siderable employment and serve as a focus for extension promotion and advice.
The forest department would provide technical advice and would supply seed,
fertilizer, polyethelene bags aun other materials to those growing seedlings.
Close supervision of these nurseries by the forest department is needed to
ensure good quality of seedlings. Ultimately, such small nursery operators
are expected to become a main source of planting material for farmers, but



-18-
this will depend upon farm forestry becoming well established and upon seed-
ling pricing policies which would enable them to do so. Larger departmental
nurseries would be used to provide seedlings for block plantations and other
departmental plantings, but would also distribute seedlings to farmers.
3.09    Seed would be sown in seedbeds or directly into sleeves.  Seedlings
from seedbeds would be transplanted into polythene sleeves. All states would
take measures to reduce the cost of seedlings, by using smaller sleeves where
the species are suited to such techniques. Other measures would include
training for nursery staff in improved handling between nursery and planting
site, and careful quality control of stock issued from nurseries. Newly
established nurseries would be equipped with pumps for hand or overhead
irrigation, unless water is otherwise freely obtainable at the site.
3.10    Each of the participating states has its own policy on seedling
distribution. Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh already assess a nominal
charge for most seedlings distributed and in the current year Gujarat is
introducing a small charge for seedlings, with a free limit of 1,000 per farm
family. The forest departments also require nurseries to maintain registers
showing the number of seedlings distributed to each family, so as to monitor
survival rates. Rajasthan currently has no limit to free distribution of
seedings, in order to promote seedling uptake for social forestry develop-
ment, which is a relatively new activity in the state. The participating
states have recognized the principle of full cost recovery for all social
forestry seedlings distributed, except for small and marginal farmers, and
during negotiations assurances were obtained that under the project they
would undertake socio-economic studies to ascertain farmer response to charg-
ing for seedlings as a basis for determining a program of action for
implementing the principle of full cost recovery. The results of these
studies would be discussed with the Association at the time of the midterm
review, i.e., by March 31, 1988, and thereafter the states would start
implementing their programs. Meanwhile, for the project, free distribution
of seedlings, except for small and marginal farmers, would be reduced in
accordance with a schedule aRreed with IDA, and seedlings above the free
limit would be charged for at rates, also agreed with IDA, which would
progressively be increased to cover the direct cost of production. Above
about 100 seedlings per farmer per year, farmers would be growing trees for
commercial purposes and the small cost assessed for seedlings would not
significantly change their returns.
Plantation Techniques
3.11    Choice of species.  All states would select species suited to the
sites to be planted. Most are indigenous or thoroughly naturalized, and
virtually all seed is collected within the state. Species have been chosen
for their suitability for use in social forestry situations. Many are truly
multipurpose or effective nitrogen fixers.  Eucalyptus tereticornis would be
a major species planted where poles are needed. Most farmers tend to choose



-19-
species which give a cash income, particularly trees providing fruit, edible
flowers and seeds and small timber. A breakdown of the major species to be
planted in each state is given in Annex 3. Decisions on the species mix
would be made after considering the objectives of the plantations and the
needs of the locality. In strip plantations fuelwood and pole species
predominate, with ornamental and shade trees included along roads. In vil-
lage woodlots in the lowland states the main choices would be species provid-
ing fuelvood, fruits and other edible products, and small timber. Grass
would be interplanted to provide fodder. In Gujarat, emphasis would be
placed on bamboo and in Himachal Pradesh on fuel, poles and fodder, with
conifers providing much of the biomass, especially from regularly pruned
branches. In rehabilitation of degraded forests in Rajasthan, the main
species to be planted would be Prosopis iuliflora or P. chilensis, whereas in
Gujprat mixed broadleaved species would predominate. In Himachal Pradesh, as
forests are at high altitudes, Pinus roxburfthi would be the main species
established. Improved material or Zizvphus mauritania (ber) grafted onto
wild rootstock and planting of Terminalia ariuna for silk production would
constitute small pilot operations to test the feasibility for large-scale
application.
3.12    Site Preparation.  Very little site clearance is required in any of
the states as most vegetation has already been removed. However, in most
cases pitting is necessary to provide improved rooting conditions for planted
trees. The size of pits depends upon the state of the soil, the species to
be planted and traditional practices of the forest department. The size
varies from 30 x 30 x 30 cm to 60 x 60 x 60 cm. Pits are usually dug in the
pre-monsoon period when labour demand is slack. In most plantation models,
nursery stock is then planted out, but direct sowing of some species would be
practiced in UP and Rajasthan. In this case mounds and trenches are used to
provide a seedbed for germinating seeds, and to provide protection against
animals. All site preparation would generally be done by hand. Table 3.02
shows the number of trees to be planted per hectare under each model.



-20-
Table 3.02:  NUMBER OF TREES PER HECTARE, BY FLAITATION MODEL
Uttar                           Himachal
Model                     Pradesh   R2iasthan   Gujarat    Pradesh
A. Azroforestrv
1. Farm Forestry                   1,500      1,500      1,500       1,500
2. Private Wasteland Planting          -          -      2,000         500
3. Improved Orchards
(Zizyphus mauritania)             -         100          -          -
B. Tree Tenure for Poor and Landless
1. Strip Plantations              3,120 to        -          -           -
3,600
2. Group Farm Forestry             2,500      1,670          -       1,100
3. Arjun Plantations               5,000
C. Pl-ntin2 on Community Wastelands
1. Community Woodlots - Rainfed   2,500       1,600      1,750       1,100
2. Community Woodlots - Irrigated      -          -     10,000           -
3. Tree Fodder Plantations
-Trees                             -          -        100           -
-Grasses (NT/ha)                   -          -     20,000           -
D. Planting on Government Wastelands
1. Rehabilitation of Degraded
Forests                            -      1,320      2,000       2,000
2. Strip Plantations              2,500 to   1,300 to
3,100      2,000      2,500           -
3. Urban Fuelvood                      -          -      2,500           -
3.13    Plantation Establishment.  In order to ensure the highest survival
rates most trees would be nursery raised in polythene sleeves which are
subsequently removed at planting to ensure minimum disturbance to the root
system. Experience has shown that bare-rooted seedlings are not generally
suitable for issue from nurseries except where the distance between nursery
and the planting site is minimal or where more temperate conditions exist at
higher altitudes (Himachal Pradesh). The "basket" method of seedling dis-
tribution (large number of fingerling seedlings in a basket, raised to larger
seedling by farmers themselves) would be continued or introduced, and farmers
would be encouraged to collect seeds from nurseries for raising on their own



-21-
or for direct soving. Direct soWing would be used mainly for Acacia
tortilis Acacia arabica and Prosopis iulifloralchilensis.
3.14    Tree Planting and Maintenance.  Planting would normally occur at the
onset of the monsoon in late June/early July. In Uttar Pradesh, where many
soils are highly alkaline, soil acidifying agents (mainly pyrites), would be
applied to both strip and block plantings, typically at 200-300 kg per ha
applied at planting time. Fertiiiser application is heavy in Gujarat, with
20-50 kg per ha of compound fertilizer or urea being used. In other states,
the use of fertilizers is not common, except in nurseries. Maintenance of
plantings would include the replacement of casualties for up to two years.
Different levels of mortality are estimated for each state depending on
experience; up to 30% casualty replacements have been included ir all project
estimates. Weeding vould be carried out to ensure survival and good early
growth. In farmer's fields weeding may be expected to be of a higher stand-
ard than in FD plantings. A particular feature of the maintenance system
would be that local people or private owners would be encouraged to cut and
remove grass and herbaceous fodder from plantations, thus performing a valu-
able weeding function and reducing the dry season risk of fire. The trees
would eventually surpress much of the weed growth as the canopy closes.
Waterinz after seedling establishment is prescribed for some models in the
lowland states of UP, Rajasthan and Gujarat, the objective being to lengthen
effectively the wet season and to ensure improved survival and growth.
3.15    Plantation Projection.  Experience in the four states differs videly
over the amount and type of protection needed for planted trees. Protection
needed also depends on the species grown, e.g., whether palatable to wild or
domestic animals, or susceptible to termite dsmage. Termite vrotection is
required most with Eucalyptus species which are the most commonly attacked.
In general, protection is given by application of persistent insecticides in
the n:trsery. If attacks are noted after planting out, localized applications
of insecticide are made. In Rajasthan and Gujarat insecticide is routinely
applied. For protection against browsing. wire fencing is used in some areas
of Rajasthan and H.P. for strip plantations, especially along routes used by
migrating herdsmen, but an effective alternative method of fencing is the use
of a trench planted or sown with a live hedge of thorny (Acacia Prosovis) or
unpalatable (Euphorbia or Ipomea) species. In degraded hills in Rajasthan
and Gujarat, effective protection is afforded by dry stone vall construction.
Experience has shown that the need for wire fencing decreases as social
awareness of the benefits of such plantations has grown. Wire fencing would
be phased out as soon as possible in favor of systems using locally available
materials. Watchmen would be provided for most plantation areas, at a rate
of one per 2 to 10 ha depending on the shape and nature o' the site. Local
custom also accounts for variation among states. For many plantations under
forest department management, the normal cadre of "Forest Guard" takes cver.
Since most of the benefits from land tenure, community and vasteland planta-
tions go to the local population, the need for paid watchmen would be reduced
in those models.



-22-
Proiect Review
3.16    Since it is not possible to predict with certainty the response of
farmers and panchayats to the alternative approaches suggested above,
flexibility would be maintained during project implementation and would allow
shifting from one category of planting to another according to results. This
would be accomplished by monitoring of results by the Monitoring and Evalua-
tion Cell of the state forestry department concerned and by a mid-term review
to be held after completion of the third yen 's planting. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations from each state that it would undertake a joint
review of the project vith GOI, IDA and USAID no later than March 31, 1988.
Infrastructure and Institutional SupDport
3.17    State institutions have been appraised vith a viev toward their
capability to handle the entire social forestry program in the state, not
just that being financed under the proposed project. The project would
provide for incremental forestry staff, vehicles, equipment, housing, offices
and incremental operating costs in support of plantation development and farm
forestry. Table 3.03 shows key professional incremental staff to be added
under each subproject. Mobility of forestry staff is important, and during
negotiations the states confirmed that adequate provision of vehicles and
travel allovances had been made, and they gave assurances that policies
governing these would be revised as necessary to ensure requisite mobility
fcr field staff.
3.18    Given the importance and scope of farm forestry in the state sub-
projects, extension and promotional activities vould be critical to project
success.  Eacbh :tte would support a relatively small, trained cadre of
social forestry field staff vho would be responsible for farm forestry promo-
tion. Although the forest department would have primary responsibility for
extension and comunication, the project would rely on village level exten-
sion workers to supplement its own field contacts, which would not only
release the forest department from having to expand its field staff, but also
would offer excellent field coverage because of the larger number of exten-
sion staff and would automatically he'p integrate agroforestry recommenda-
tions with other advice on crops. The Training and Visit (T&V) System of
agricultural extension is well established in Gujarat and Rajasthan, and is
being established in Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. In each state, the
forest department and the agricultural extension service would enter into an
agreement to provide the required cooperation. The forest department would
designate Rangers to serve as Forestry Subject Matter Specialists;



-23-
Table 3.03: KEY INCREMENTAL STAFF TO BE ADDED UNDER NSFP
A. State Subprojects
Uttar Pradesh   Rajasthan   Guiarat  H.P.
Chief Conservator of Forests             -              1          -
Add'l Chief Conservator                  2              -           1       1
Conservator of Forests                   9              1          2        1
Deputy Conservator of Forests           28             10         14        5
Assistant Conservator of Forests        88              6           9      41
Ranger Forest Officer                  712             60         37       84
Deputy Ranger                          343             22          -       79
Forester                             1,329            137         22        -
Social Forestry Worker               1.013            657         78     364
(all Guard Level)
TOTAL                       3,524             894        163     575
B. Support Office Subproject
SuPport Office
Read of Support Office                                    1
Chief Conservator of Forest (Central)                     5
Deputy IGFIM&E                                            2
Assistant IGF                                             2
Conservator                                               6
Deputy Conservator of Forest                             11
Assistant Conservator of Forests                          5
Sociologist                                               1
Chief Project Economist                                   1
Project Economist                                         1
Deputy Director Statistics                                1
TOTAL                                              36
these SMS would attend monthly planning meetings and fortnigbtly training
sessions for VEW as appropriate.  Each state would be required under NSFP to
give assurances of such cooperation by Government order. Gujarat and Rajas-
than have already done so; Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have undertaken
to do so once the T&V system has been initiated under proposed projects to
improve agricultural extension services in those states, but no later than
December 31, 1985.



-24-
Training
3.19    Additional emphasis would be given to basic and in-service training
under each state subproject. A large number of existing staff working in
social forestry lack training at their professional level, many having been
promoted from lower levels or transferred into social forestry from other
branches of the forestry department without adequate orientation to their
new task. Training also needs to be reoriented so as to be less theoretical
and to favor practical, people-oriented skills. Training of trainees has
been provided in the state as vell as the central components. In addition,
forest departments have begun and vould continue to revise curricula so as to
give greater emphasis to social forestry commensurate with its importance in
their overall activities. Present curricula require greater emphasis on
operation of nurseries, seed collection and storage and extension methodology
and are being revised to reflect these needs, and should include lectures and
workshops on preparing village level forest management plans. Short inten-
sive courses for senior management and training for Rangers who would serve
as Forestry Subject Matter Specialists to the agricultural extension services
would also be provided. In general, the states under NSFP would use existing
training institutions. A small amount of financing for improved facilities
is, however, included. In aiddition, the project would provide for study
tours or fellowships in India and abroad. Brief descriptions of present and
proposed training facilities and programs in each state are described in
Project Files CI-C4.
Research and Studies
3.20    The project would strengthen agro-silviculture research through
provision of some additional staff and funds for contractual research with
the ultimate objective of providing better information in dealing with
imediate problems faced by project management. The need for research under
the state subprojects is focussed on seed source identification, seed collec-
tion and handling, nursery practice, optimizing productivity and reducing
costs. The state social forestry projects and work done by their research
staff and research stations would also be supported by: the proposed National
Agricultural Research Project II which provides assistance through the Indian
Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) to State Agricultural Universities
(SAUs) to develop research programs; Forest Research Institute (FRI) at Dehra
Dun; and the proposed Forest Research, Education and Training Project (FRET).
The research responsibilities of each relevant to NSFP are as follows: (a)
ICAR and the SAUs would be responsible for on-farm and on-station research on
agroforestry in the main agro-ecological zones of India; competition effects;
physiological and nutritional studies; physiology of coppicing, pollarding
and coppicing; some breeding work and farm budget analyses. (b) FRI and
state silviculturists would be responsible for comprehensive species intro-
duction trials; selection and progeny testing; breeding of trees for use in
farm, village and departmental forestry; detailed yield studies of different
species under different management systems including trees in free growth,



-25-
partial harvesting by coppicing, pollarding etc.; and non-wood products.
More detailed descriptions of the vork proposed for each state under NSFP and
cost details are given in the Project Files Cl-C4.
3.21    The project would provide for wood balance studies to be undertaken
by all states to develop a basis for estimating future consumption and plan-
ning future supplies for major products like fuelwood, pulpwood, poles and
timber. The study findings would help define the needs of different user
groups and help determine the composition of planting targets and species
selection. To serve as effective management tools, these studies need to be
revised continuously, and under the project the staff required to do this
would be provided. The FDs of Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh have prepared draft
reports. Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan have prepared detailed wood balance
study proposals, following the guidelines and terms of reference provided by
the Bank and USAID. The Bank and USAID, assisted by the Ford Foundation,
are holding discussions with the states to assist in refining the objectives
of these studies and in practical methodology including sampling design and
analysis so as to improve the basis for social forestry project planning over
the longer term.
Wood Saving Devices
3.22    Programs to promote efficient wood burning stoves and crematoria are
included in the state projects. Efficiency of stoves used in rural
households is very low and can be increased by as much as 50Z through scien-
tifically designed, low-cost improved stoves. Reduction of smoke also
provides substantial health benefits. Improved crematoria can reduce vood
consumption by about 40Z. In Himachal Pradesh, advantage would be taken of
the progress made by the Indo-German Dhauladhar Project in establishing a
program of improved stoves and pressure cookers. The subproject would fund
an evaluation study of these devices under field conditions, soliciting
users' recommendations.  The Himachal Pradesh subproject also provides for
hiring women forest guards to work as extension agents, inter alia. for
promotion of improved stoves. The project would provide funds in all four
states for improved crematoria in areas were significant segments of the
population use these common facilities. Further information on improved
stoves and crematoria is given in Project File C5, Item 7.
3.23   Special features of the individual state subprojects are described
below in paras 3.24-3.27. Cost figures in parentheses in these paragraphs
represent base costs. Table 3.01, para 3.03, shows the breakdown of planta-
tion components for each state. Summary costs are reflected in Table 5.01.
The numbers of key incremental staff appear in Table 3.03, para 3.17.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that by December 31, 1985, the
following state positions would be sanctioned: Rajasthan, a Conservator of
Forest for Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation; Uttar Pradesh, an additional
Chief Conservators of Forests, and a Conservator of Forests for Planning.



-26-
'Uttar Pradesh (US$103 1)
3.24    With a population of over 110 million, or 16Z of the Indian total,
Uttar Pradesh is the largest state in India. The Project would cover all 49
districts of the Plains region (9 more districts than in the previous
project). In particular, the Project would provide:
(a) Tree establishment of about 134.000 hectares under farm
forestrV. jj with more intensive efforts in the more heavily and
intensively cultivated Eastern Region, where agroforestry would
comprise the main thrust; these efforts vould be supported by
strong extension to recommend species and approaches best suited
to farm conditions and needs;
(b) Plantations involving tree ownership for poor and landless people
(US$11.8 H) with 11,000 ha of unirrigated blocks, 1,210 ha of
strip plantations alongside roads and 1,000 ha of irrigated Arjun
plantations to be established on goverrnment owned land; in each
of the models in this category, participants would be selected in
consultation with village authorities; landless persons and
marginal farmers would have responsibility for plantation work on
leased land with right of ownership to trees planted; the arjun
plantations established in alkaline soils would produce tassar
for silk making;
Cc) Plantations on Public Wastelands (US$12.1 M) involving 14,000
hh of community woodlots on panchayat owned waste lands; agree-
ments with villages/panchayats involved wouald stipulate early
local participation and take-over of plantation management
responsibilities;
(d) Plantations on Goverment Wastelands, (US$1.3 H) with 740 ha of
strip plantations; roadside and railside sites would be selected
which are nearby to communities and could support several rows of
trees (so as to enable progressive harvesting);
(e) A network of small decentralized nuuseries  (US$23.9 1) to boost
participation in tree planting by small farmers and those living
in more remote areas through better access to seedling distribu-
tion and advice; each of the 800 Development Blocks would have at
least two family or school-operated small nurseries in addition
to its existing large departmental nursery; and
X,J The only direct costs associated with UP farm forestry would be for
seedling production, which is reflected as US$23 M in part Ce) following.



-27-
(f) Institutional support (US$54.3 M) including a strengthening of
field operations to coincide with block level administrative
arrangements and creation of two administrative zonal head-
quarters to administer the statewide organization; field staff at
the block level would be deployed to facilitate coordination with
the extension service and to maximize contacts vith farmers and
plantation beneficiaries, and to help operate a strong nursery
system; the project would provide about 3,100 key professional
staff, in addition vehicles and requisite travel and vehicle
operating allowances, and residential housing (about 1,000 units)
for new field staff to be located in remote arear. Costs include
strengthening of extension, training, monitoring and evaluation
and social forestry research. Details are given in Table 5.01.
Rajasthan (US$25.0 M)
3.25    Although the second largest state in the country, Rajasthan is more
sparsely populated than Uttar Pradesh, contains few natural forests and
suffers from a harsher climate. Of the relatively low proportion of land
which is covered by forests (9X), about two-thirds is substantially degraded.
The project would cover only the Eastern Region of thc z;ate which, while
excluding the vast desert areas of the West, still experiences generally
inhospitable agroclimatic conditions. This project would represent the first
externally assisted social forestry effort, although the state has already
undertaken plantations through centrally-sponsored schemes. Special features
of the state project would include:
(a) Tree establishment on the equivalent of 80.000 ha under farm
forestry. jj This component would include a 4,000 ha pilot
program for establishment of fruit bearing bushes (Zizyphus),
with hectares calculated at 100 bushes per hectare;
(b) Plantations involving tree ownership for poor and landless people
on 7.500 ha of Government wastelands (US$2.6 M); plantings would
be rainfed and adjacent to village areas;
(c) Plantation of Community wastelands (US$1.9 M) including 5,000
ha of community woodlots on panchayat owned wastelands;
lj Agro forestry direct costs would include $0.05 M for grafted fruit trees,
and $4.5 M for seedling production for farm forestry; the latter figures
is reflected in part (e) following.



-28-
(d) Plantation on Government wastelands (US$7.1 M), including 20,000
ha rehabilitated degraded forests, and 4,300 ha of strip planta-
tions along roads, canals and railways. This would necessitate
FD gaining jurisdiction over certain tracts of land presently
controlled by other government departments;
(e) Establishment/maintenance of a network of at least 600 decentral-
ized small nurseries (US$5.1 M), some of which would be temporary
and could be relocated as deemed desirable; and
(f) Institutional support (US$8.3 M), to comprise reorganization of
field operations along Comminity Development Block lines,
strengthening of extension, improved social forestry training
(entailing construction of two new social forestry training
wings), and appointment of a Woodlot Planning Officer to super-
vise production distribution and guide formulation of plantation
management plans and revise/develop new social forestry planta-
tion models, and harvesting arrangements more responsive to local
needs; the project would provide incremental staff (including
about 900 key professional positions); 768 bicycles, 72 motor-
cycles and cars, jeep, vans, etc; travel allowance and operating
costs; and about 100 residences for field staff; and installation
of 160 fuel-saving crematoria. Costs include strengthening of
extension, training, monitoring and evaluation and social
forestry research.
Guiarat (US$83.8 M)
3.26    Over half the land of Gujarat (of total state area about 200,000 km2)
is under agricultural production; of the remainder, a quarter is classified
as wasteland of which 80% is to be found in Kachchh District. Since the land
in the other districts is largely cultivated, agroforestry has received
special emphasis in the state and would continue to do so under the proposed
project. The project would include:
(a) Some 200.000 ha of farm forestry plantation Ij on field
boundaries, bunds, and farm wastelands, together with 30.500
ha of GCOG-assisted planting on particularly erodedierodable
Dri.vate lands (US$5.4 M); the latter plantations would expand on
the "malki" approach of the previous project, and would provide
assistance to the farmer to maintain for a limited period the
trees on his land (as income foregone);
XJ The only direct costs associated with Gujarat farm forestry would be for
seedling production, which is reflected at US$4 H in part (d) following.



-29-
(b) Plantations on community owned vastelands, (US$23.7 M) including
20,000 ha of unirrigated woodlots, c,000 of irrigated woodlots,
and 10,000 ha of tree fodder plantations on panchayat lands;
(c) Plantations on Government Lands (US$40.8 M), consisting of 30,400
ha rehabilitated degraded forests, 15,000 ha road, rail and
canalside strip plantations and 2,500 ha of fuelvood plantations
adjacent to urban areas;
(d) Establishment of over 2.500 small nurseries (US$4.0 M), with
about two thirds of them being farmer-operated and the rest run
by schools; and
(e) Institutional support (US$9.9 M) including the designation of
special "Extension" staff which would enable existing staff to
concentrate on physical plantation and nursery work, while the
Extension staff (which would include female Plantation Assis-
tants) would devote full-time to farm forestry promotion and
advice, identification of sites for public plantation and for-
mulation of plantation management agreements, and promotion of
wood saving devices; organizational strengthening would also
entail: appointment of a Conservator-level officer for Planning,
Information, Reporting and Project Formulation to help institute
the system of plantation management plans and arrangements for
production distributicn and the development of more responsive
social forestry plantation models; strengthening of training
capacity, including the appointment of an additional DCF level
instructor and construction of another dormitory at the Rajpipla
School, in order to provide support for stepped-up inservice
training; appointment of incremental staff including about 150
key professional positions; provision of 467 motorcycles and
other vehicles, plus travel allowances, to support effective
field staff mobility; construction of 460 residences for field
staff, 80 workshops/sheds/garages for field support; and instal-
lation of 11,000 fuelsaving devices. Costs also include
strengthening of social forestry research.
Himachal Pradesh (US$37.3 H)
3.27    In contrast to the other three states in this project, Himachal
Pradesh would target social forestry within hilly to mountainous terrain,
38% of which i8 already afforested. Although this would represent the first
externally assisted activity in social forestry, the state has already estab-
lished about 60,000 ha of social forestry plantations under centrally spon-
sored and state schemes in the past five years, and for several decades the
government has fostered a system of accomodating villagers' minimum needs
for fuelwood, sm4l1 wood for construction, etc. to be provided from state



-30-
protected forests. This also prevents uncontrolled felling of trees and
permits FDs to retain those trees of highest economic value. The project
would provide:
(a) Azroforestry plantations, including 53,000 ha equivalent under
farm forestry jJ, and another 13,000 ha of Forest department
assisted plantation on highly eroded/erodable lands (US$2.0 M)
lands involving groups of individuals with no more than 2 ha
plantation per farmer;
(b) Tree ownership for groups of participants. plantinz on Government
vastelands (less than US$0.1 M) a pilot test involving some 833
ha;
(c) Plantation of public owned wastelands (US$13.0 H), consisting
of 41,000 ha of community land;
(d) Plantation on Government Lands (US$1.6 M), involving rehabilita-
tion of 5,000 ha of degraded forests;
(e) Establishment and operation of nurseries (US$7.0 M); and
(f) Institutional support (US$13.7 H), including designation of
"Extension" staff to work together with territorial forestry
staff, whereby the former would undertake promotion, extension
and formulation of agreements with villages, and the latter would
do the physical plantation work for social forestry; formulation
of plantation management plans and distributional arrangements
for public plantation sites which ensure social benefits and
attention to local needs; strengthening of social forestry
research, monitoring and evaluation, and training with stepped-up
ins.Lvice training at Chail, Mallan and other facilities; field
evaluation of existing stove programs, and the installation of
some 7,500 fuelsaving devices facilitated by project-hired women
stove extension workers; and the addition of incremental staff,
including 575 key professional positions; civil works mainly
entailing 250 residences for field staff to be posted in remote
areas; and 175 motorcycles for field staff.
LI The only direct cost for farm forestry would be seedling production
which, as part(e) shows, would total about US$7 M.



-31-
C. Detailed Features - Social Forestry Support Office Subproiect (US$4.0 M)
3.28    The Social Forestry Support Office would be located under the Special
Secretary of Forests in the Ministry of Enviornment and Forests. While the
newly created Support Office would provide support to the NSFP, its role and
functions would be broadly based encompassing the entire forestry subsector
throughout the country. Since the Ministry has only recently been estab-
lished, its internal organization is still incomplete. Accordingly, during
negoriations assurances were obtained that GOI would furnish to the Associa-
tion the completed organizational structure and proposed staffing by
April 30, 1986.
3.29    The Support Office would consist of two cells and possibly five
regionally oriented support groups. The Project Formulation Cell, headed by
the Chief Project Economist, would assist states in project preparation and
would foster a consistent social forestry policy among centrally-sponsored
and donor-assisted schemes. A Monitoring Cell, headed by the DIGF/M&E, would
review progress of all social forestry schemes, and maintain records of total
plantation achievements and expenditures by state. The regional support
groups, each headed by a Chief Conservator of Forests (Central), would pay
attention, inter alia, to training and technical assistance.
3.30    Besides assisting in project preparation and monitoring, the Social
Forestry Support Office would provide other assistance which would include:
promoting cross-fertilization of experience among states; tracking progress
of all social forestry schemes, and working to eliminate redundancies or
inconsistencies among them; conducting overview studies, such as national
wood supply and demand studies; providing training and technical assistance
support where economies of scale so warrant; facilitating nominations for
international training; and providing supplementary assistance to states
which lack adequate capacity to handle their social forestry programs.
3.31    Central support for social forestry would be achieved by the follow-
ing:
(a) Establishing the Social Forestry SuPPort Office (US$3.4 H),
including appointment of some 36 incremental higher level staff
plus support staff to the offices of the nead of the Social
Forestry Support Office, Chief Project Economist and Deputy
IGF/Monitoring; assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOI
would sanction the new position of the head of the Social Forestry
Support Office by April 30, 1986 and that by October 31, 1986 it
would have filled this position and would thereafter maintain that
position and those of the Chief Project Economist and the Deputy
IGF/Monitoring and Evaluation. The project would also provide
rented office space, plus necessary resource support including



-32-
vehicles (car, jeep and three station wagons), office equipment
and furniture, and operating/maintenance costs;
(b) Provision of funds for training (US$0.4 M) and technical assis-
tance (US$0.5 M) in social forestry. Certain training and techni-
cal assistance functions (e.g., training of trainers, assistance
in selecting and introducing computerized monitoring systems)
would be more efficiently done by the Support Office than by each
state on its own. A Training Coordinator' in central headquarters
would organize such training, identify institutions and
individuals to carry out such training and process nominations,
and would solicit active state participation in designing the
program for training and technical assistance. Under this program,
a sizable amount of management training could be conducted by the
Indian Institute of Forest Management; and
(c) Special studies (US$0.1 M), including inter alia, an overview of
wood supply and demand, and analyses of other policy matters with
regional or national ramifications.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01    The implementation of the proposed project would be carried out
within the framework of the existing institutions at the federal and state
levels (paras 4.03 and 4.04). However, to provide better policy direction,
technical advice and support throughout the country, as well as to ensure
effective coordination of various investment programs for forestry develop-
ment, the Social Forestry Support Office would be established in the Ministry
of Environment and Forests, under the direction of the Special Secretary of
Forests in GOI. The primary responsibility of the Social Forestry Support
Office would be to undertake forestry sector reviews and analyses and to
develop sound sector policies. In addition, this office would assist state
entities in sub-project identification, preparation and implementation,
provide training and technical assistance support to states, monitor and
evaluate ongoing state projects, and foster common approaches to implementa-
tion of the various centrally-sponsored, state, and donor-assisted social
forestry programs. The Support Office would act in close cooperation with
the states, with other GOI agencies conducting social forestry activities,
and with external supporting agencies. For states which have yet to develop
expertise in project works, the Support Office would provide back-stopping
technical support. It is envisaged that in the long run, as it develops and
strengthens its capacity for providing effective policy and technical support
for forestry development in the country, the Support Office would emerge as
an important development entity.



-33-
4.02    Compared with previous social forestry projects, GOI will take an
increasingly active role in the support of state social forestry activities.
Joint IDA/USAID supervision missions would be about made twice a year to each
state and GOI staff would accompany them. During project implementation, the
Social Forestry Support Office would assume greater responsibility for
assisting, coordinating, guiding and monitoring state subprojects. The
increased staff and resources provided under NSFP would allow central govern-
ment to provide greater support to states, including more field visits, than
previously possible. This support would extend to all states aud to social
forestry programs as a whole, not just activities financed under NSFP. The
staffing pattern of the Support Office would provide for regional specializa-
tion by some staff and it would be decided later whether to decentralize
these staff to regional offices.
4.03    Responsibility for forestry has recently been moved from the Ministry
of Agriculture to a new Ministry of Environment and Forests, attached
directly to the Prime Minister's Office. The Special Secretary of Forests,
who is also the Inspector General of Forests (IGF), is responsible for coor-
dinating the planning and implementation of development projects in forestry
and has direct responsibility for forestry activities in the Union Ter-
ritories. He works together with a Joint Secretary to GOI for general
administrative purposes, including administration of the Indian Forest Serv-
ice (IFS), and on the technical side he is assisted by an Additional IGF and
six Deputy IGFs, one each for Research and Education, Central Forestry Com-
mission, Survey and Utilization, Afforestation and Extension, Conservation,
and Monitoring and Evaluation. Under the project, another Additional IGF is
likely to be added to head the Social Forestry Support Office, including the
regional (zonal) offices. The initial organization would be decided by
April 30, 1986 (para 3.31). A Chief Project Economist (foree'ry) and Project
Economist (forestry) are responsible for formulating projects under multi-
lateral and bilateral assistance. A DIGFIM&E heads up the monitoring and
review of donor-assisted projects in social forestry.
4.04    Within the states, forestry administration is the res -ensibility of
a separate Department of Forests with a Secretary to the State Government
looking after forestry. The Department is headed by a Chief r.'nservator of
Forests (CCF) or Principal CCF who belongs to the IFS. He is assisted by one
CCF and/or Additional CCFs and Conservators of Forests (CFs) for functional
support, and for administration of field activities. The Circle or Region is
generally the largest administrative unit, and it is in turn divided into
Divisions, usually five or six, each under a Divisional Forest Officer (DFO)
with the rank of Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF). The DCFs are assisted
by other DCFs (state cadre) or Assistant Conservators of Forest (ACF) in
managing the Division and implementing development projects. Divisions
normally consist of four to six Ranges, each under a Range Forest Officer.
The Range is further divided into four to six Rounds, each in the charge of a
Forester; Foresters are assisted by several Forest Guards, each on a Beat.



-34-
4.05    The organization of forestry and social forestry varies among states,
usually as a result of the amount and distribution of state forest reserves
to be found in the states. The organization for states participating in NSFP
is detailed in Project Files C1-C4. A brief description is given below of
organizational arrangements for social forestry in each state.
(a) Uttar Pradesh. A separate line organization for social forestry
was set up under the first project, and would continue under the
proposed project and its support functions (extension, research,
H&E training and planning) would be strengthened. As before, a
CCF (Chief Conservator of Forests) vould take charge of social
forestry, under supervision of the Principal CCF. The 49 dis-
tricts covered under the project would now be grouped into ten
(instead of the previous five) Circles, te facilitate administra-
tion. Field operations would now be structured along "develop-
ment block" lines and staff would be added for better extension
and operation of decentralized nurseries. (Organizational
Chart 1)
(b) Raiasthan. As in U.P., a CCF would head up social forestry,
under the supervision of a Principal CCF. In support of the CCF,
there would be sections for Extension and Communications; Plan-
ning, Nonitoring and Evaluation; and Woodlot Planning. Since
there are almost no natural forests in the project area and most
forestry and social forestry operations would be technically
similar, the state vould maintain the existing organization but
would add Social Forestry staff under each Divisional Forest
Officer (DFO). Field operations would be structured along block
lines. (Organizational Chart 2)
(c) Guiarat. The separate line organization for social forestry set
up under the first project would continue, with selective
strengthening of functional support at headquarters. Respon-
sibility for sorial forestry lies with a CCF, under the supervi-
sion of a Principal CCF. For functional support, there would be
three sections covering monitoring and evaluation; research,
training and communication; and planning. At field level there
would be five social forestry circles, an increase of one from
the previous project.  Special exten,ion field staff would be
added in each division who would focus on farm forestry and
wood-saving devices promotion, formulation of agreements with
villages and extension. (Organizational Chart 3)
(d) Himachal Pradesh. Since a relatively high proportion of the
state is already afforested (although degraded in some parts)
and since there is already a well-established tradition of
individual rights to forest produce, the state would maintain
the existing organization but would add social forestry staff



-35-
under each DFO, and would strengthen functional support at head-
quarters. Tvo CCFs are managing social forestry, the
CCF/Planning and Development in charge of general program direc-
tion and functional support, and the CCF/Territorial looking
after all field staff including those added under the project;
they both answer directly to the Forest Secretary (there is no
PCCF). Assurances vere obtained that a single line of command
would be maintained from the circle Conservator dcvn for field
staff and that a steering committee headed by the Forest
Secretary would meet at least every quarter to discuss and assign
work priorities to field staff. (Organizational Chart 4)
4.06    Continuous monitoring and evaluation is an integral part of all ongoing
Bank-assisted social forestry projects; however, participating states have
been slow to establish monitoring and evaluation units and to begin collec-
tion and analysis of appropriate data. In recognition of the shortcomings and
at the request of GOI, the Bank, FAO and the Office of the IGF, in consult-
ation with state forest departments and the major donor agencies supporting
social forestry projects in India, prepared an operational guide in 1982
which was revised after a workshop in 1983. VJ This guide describes an
operational system which all states vould implement under the guidance of the
DIGF/Monitoring and Evaluation. These guidelines, therefore, would form the
basis for state M&E operations under the project. A detailed review of
monitoring and evaluation in the project states has been undertaken. A
report containing extensive recoumendations, which have been taken into
account in calculating project costs, is available in the project file (C5,
Item 5)
4.07    The project provides for strengthening of M&E cells in each state.
Within a state, M&E is the responsibility of a DCF or CF in the forest
department, reporting to the head of the department or the social forestry
wing. He is assisted by a small headquarters staff including a statistician
and an economist, and would supervise a team of Field Supervisors and Inves-
tigators to collect field level data. Assurances were obtained at nego-
ti!tions that all states would undertake monitoring and evaluation in the
form already agreed with GOI, and that snummary results would be forwarded to
IDA and USAID at least once a year.
4.08    State projects would receive general supervision and guidance from
the Central Support Office-s M&E Unit. This Unit would also be responsible
for technical guidance to state M&E cells and for collecting and coordinating
the monitoring and evaluation reports from all subproject states including
/ R.LH. Slade and R. Noronha with contributions from J.G. Campbell, P.
Guhathakurta, and B. Tepping, "An Operational Guide to the Monitoring
and Evaluation of Social Forestry in India," Working Draft, June 1984.



-36-
those directly supported by the Bank before NSFP, analyzing and forwarding
then to the Bank at prescribed intervals.
4.09    Coordination of forestry activities among all agencies in each state
would be through an existing committee at the secretarial level. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the states would maintain these com-
mittees. The states also agreed that by March 31, 1988, they would carry
out studies of the organizational issues in their forest departments, includ-
ing, inter alia. the relationship of various social forestry schemes.
4.10    Proiect Reporting.  Each state would be responsible for preparing
semi-annual progress reports in a format approved by IDA and USAID, and
submitting its reports to the Special Secretary of Forests and DEA. This
would include a table on total social forestry performance regarding physical
achievements and financial outlays, presented according to a standard format
which has been developed at the center for mouitoring these data on a state
by state basis. The Social Forestry Support Office would prepare semi-annual
progress reports each June and December giving a summary of NSFP project
activities undertaken during the prior six months. These would be forwarded
to IDA and USAID for review. Each participating state and the Social
Forestry Support Office would also undertake to prepare a completion report
on its subproject. The Social Forestry Support Office would prepare the
project completion report required by IDA. Assurances were obtained on the
above at negotiations.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01    Total project cost is estimated at Rs 3,933 X (US$327.8 N), including
Rs 47.1 N (US$3.93 H) for taxes and duties. Cost estimates are based on
May 1985 prices. The foreign exchange component is estimated at Rs 77.0 M
(US$6.6 M), which represents 2% of total project cost. Physical and price
contingencies over the project period amount to Rs 891.2 M (US$74.3 M), or
23Z of total project cost. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10%
of civil works, and 5% of other costs except for staff salaries and travel
allowance for which no physical contingency has been provided. Price contin-
gencies at about US$62.8 million were derived from projected local inflation
rates of 8.5% during 1985-90 and foreign inflation rates of 5% in 1985, 7.5%
in 1986 and 8.0% in 1987-1990.



-37-
Table 5.01: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY STATE COMPONENTS
(RIFEES '000)                (15S '000)                  Z Total
Z Foreiun  Bse
Local   Foreign   Tta-l      Local  Foreign Total    Exdc e   Costs
A. GUJARAT
1. ORANIZATION NS MNAGERENT      90,984.2 2,772.5   93,656.7  7h573.7  231.0  7M90.7          3       3
2. PHYSICAL TARGETS             882P803.8 8,605.2  891,409.0  73,567.0  717.1 74,284.1        1      29
3. RESEfN                         3P896.4    94.3    3,980.7    324.7    7.0    331.7         2       0
4. EXTENSION                      2,727.2    53.8    2i781.0    227.3    ;.5    231.7         2       0
5. TRAINING                       5.911.5 1,041.5    6r953.0    492.6   86.8    579.4        15       0
6. PLAIING                        1,566.9   49.1    1,616.0     130.6    4.1    134.7         3       0
7, ONWIiORING AND EVALUATION      4,656.?   191.0 -  4Y947.9    388.1   15.    404.0          4      -A0
Sub-Total GUJARAT                  M2446.9 12,97.3 ,005i244.3  82,703.9 1,066.4 83,770.4         1      33
D. HflYCAl. PRADESH
1. ORGANIZATION AND NANA6EJENT  120,496.7 4,060.7  124,577.4  10,041.4  340.1 109381.5        3       4
2. PHYSICAL TARGETS             291Y389.9 2,753.8  284143.7  23,449.2  229.5 23p678.6         1       9
3. RESERCN                        54U.6   138.5    5625.1       457.2   11.5   468.8          2       0
4. EXNIO                          44182.9   190.3    4,373.2    348.6   15.9   364.4          4       0
5. TRAINING                      10v7931. 1,194.0   11,987.1    899.4   99.5   998.9         10       0
6. NONITURING AND EIMPTION       15v954.3   362.4   16,316.7   14329.5   30.2  19359.7        2       1
Sub-Total HIrAIAL PLUESM          438i303.4 8,719.9  447,023.2  36i525.3  726.6 37t251.9         2      15
C. RPUASTHAN
1. ORGANIZATION AND KWNAGEMENT   67,662.8 3,409.2   71,O71.9   59638.6  284.1  5s922.7        5       2
2. PHYSICAL TARGETS             1989078.1 1,934.1  204P012.2  16,506.5  161.2 16,667.7        1       7
3. RESEARCH                       2 190.6    52.2    2,242.7    182.5    4.3    186.9         2       0
4. EXTENSIND                      99307.5   341.2    9,648.6    775.6   28.4    904.1         4       0
5. TRAINING                       6v481.2 1,233.2    7,714.4    540.1  102.8   642.9         16       0
6. NANITURING AND ESUMATION       9,304.3   176.4    9,480.7    775.4   14.7   790.1          2       0
Sub-Total RAJ4STKN                 2939024.4 7plqo.1  300w170.5  24,418.7  595.5 254014.2        2      10
D. UTTAR PRAJESH
1. ORGANIZATION AND NANAGEIENT  465i658.0 199799.5  485,457.5  389804.8 1,650.0 40,454.8      4      16
2. PHYSICAL TARGETS             584119.9 5,727.6  599,847.5  489676.7  477.3 49154.0          1      19
3. RESEARCH                       6v266.7   195.6    6p452.3    522.2   15.5   537.7          3       0
4. EXTENSION                     56v302.2 19614.4   57,996.6   4,698.5  134.5  4,833.1        3       2
5. TRAINING                      86,783.4 4,995.7   91,669.1   7P231.9  407.1  7P639.1        5       3
6. PLAIWING                       39282.9   58.3    3,341.2    273.6    4.9   278.4           2       0
7. HONITORING AND EUALUATION      6,198.4   111.4   6h309.8     516.5    9.3    525.8         2       0
Sub-Total IJiTAR PRA3KE          19208,691.4 32,382.6 1l2419073.9 1009724.3 29698.5 103,422.8    3      41
E. CENTRAL SUPPORT OFFICE          479404.2 1032.8   48,437.0   39950.3   86.1  4,036.4         2       2
Total BASELINE COSTS               29793,870.3 62,078.7 3&041P94.9 248m322.5 5P173.2 253,495.7     2     100
Pnsical Contingecies              134,077.8 3,632.0  137w709.7  11,173.1  302.7 11,47.98        3       5
Price Contiliemnies               742,164.5 11,323.8  753488.2  61,847.0  943.6 62,790.7        2      25
Total PRPOECT COSTS                3,956,112.5 77,034.4 3,933,146.9 3219342.7 6,419.5 327,762.2    2     129
= = - _= =



-38-
Table 5.02:   SUMCMARY OF PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITuRE
(MFES '000)                    (US$ '000)                   Z Total
--XZ Forein  Omst
Lwcal   Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign Total    k:xcunhe   Costs
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
if DKTSfl COST
A. CIViL UICS                              2060702.2 104560.8  217,262.9  17v225.2  8N.1 18P105.2           5       7
3. IERIXfES                                 70M48.4 17m272.3   88,220.7   5,912.4 1439.4  7,351.7         20       3
C. E UJIINWT                                219392.8 2N309.3   231702.1   1,792.7  192.4  1IP75.2          10       1
3. FIUIITrI                                  4.318.7       -    4318.7       359.9      -    359.9          -       0
E. 7RA2DIDIB
1. STAFF TRAINIDG NIESTIC                36447.         -   36447.9   3,037.3        -  3.037.3          -       I
2. STAFF TRAh    INTEIMUTIOMwL              516.0 4,508.5    5,024.5       43.0  375.7    418.7         90       0
3. CENTRALLY - SPOhISRE  _5S              2,158.0       -    2,158.0      179.8      -    179.8          -       0
4. FOU  TRAININ  AO0 EXTEISIN             6fl11.5       -    6&119.5      510.0      -    510.0          -       0
SUbiTotal TRAINIjI                          45241*4  4509.5   49,749.8   30770.1  375.7  4I145.8            9       2
F. TECHNICIL ASSISTANCE                      2,502.0       -    29502.0      206.5      -    208.5          -       0
S. S'ECIAL STIDIES MD EVAIJUTI0N             2.914.8       -    2,914.8      242.9      -    242.9          -       0
H. RESEARCN UFERATIN  MD GRATS TO SWIS        755.8        -      755.8       63.0      -      63.0         -       0
I. PLAmIATIO
1. NESMERY IEVEJNIENfT                  5059.0 S,099.4  525,158.4  43,338.2  425.0 43t763.2              1      17
2. FAR FEWSRY                           988533.1   868.2   89,406.3   7P378.2   72.3  7v450.5            1       3
3. TMEE TEJ  REPLAITIG                  148,364.7 1s454.8  149P819.5  12P,363.7  121.2  12,485.0         1       5
4. CDiIUIIJY FDRES                     581P078.9 5,697.8  596,776.6  48w423.2  474.8 48898.1            1      19
5. iUTEL.AU PLNITATION                  601P759.3 5,900.5  607,659.8  50u146.6  491.7  50,638.3          1      20
Sub-Total PWATATIE                       1P939799.9 19,020.7 1v958v820.6 161I650.0 1,585.1 163P235.1        1      64
J. FUELD SAUDi BEMIWES                       6P643.9       -    6643.9       553.7      -    553.7          -       0
Total INKESTIENT COSTS                     243019219.9 539671.5 2,354,891.4 19mI768.3 4,472.6 1969241.0       2       77
II. REDJWE  COSTS
A. STAFF SLARiBES                         423,160.7       -  423P160.7  35,263.4       - 35s,263.4         -      14
3. STAFF TRAWL NLLEIINIE                  81PS56.7       -   81,956.7  6&821.4        -  6,B21.4          -       3
C. mDING REY  AND Ii  ffIEJWICE            63PSZ2.1 3v246.0   66,768.1   5P293.5  270.5  5,564.0           5       2
D. VEREME OEPATIN MD AMliINTEMCE           47P949.9 5,161.1   53W011.0   3,987.5  430.1  4'417.6          10       2
E. IFFICE ANtO OTlER EVBUITIRE             62p261.1       -   62Y261.1   5r188.4       -  5,188.4          -       2
Total RECINT COSTS                           678g650.4 B.407.l  687,057.5  56,554.2  700.6 57D254.8           1       23
T,tal  ASEDE COST                           29979,870.3 62,078.7 3,041,948.9 248,322.5 5173.2 253,495.7       2      100
Phusical CantinIncies                       134P077.8 3.632.0  137,709.7  119173.1  302.7  11,475.8          3       5
price Contirncigs                           742P1645 11i323.8  753,411.2   U1847.0  943.6 62,790.7           2      25
Total PMECT COST                             3.956.112.5 77,034.4 3p933P146.9 321,342.7 6,419.5 3279762.2      2      129
,, .ZZ     .~       =X=-            .         ==== =



-39-
5.02    Project cost estimates are suamarized in Tables 5.01 a,d 5.02, and
subcomponent summaries given in Annex 4. Detailed cost tables are given in
Project Files Cl-C5. Cost by year are shown in Annex 4.
B. Proposed Financing
5.03    External financing for the project would be provided by the proposed
IDA credit of US$165 M and by USAID financing of US$80.0 N representing 50Z
and 24Z, respectively, of total project costs, net of taxes aud duties. GOI
and the four state governments would supply the remaining US$83 M under their
Seventh Plan. The proposed IDA credit would be made to GOI on standard terms
and conditions. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be channeled to the
Ministry of Envirorment and Forests and to the participating states in
accordance with arrangements applicable at the time for central assistance to
states for development projects. The USAID funds would be made available,
US$3 N as a grant and US$77 M as loan funds, on its standard terms and would
be similarly channeled to the Ministry and participating states. The balance
of project financing would come from state goverrment sources and GOI as
indicated in the table below. Participating states have included these
subprojects in their draft Seventh Development Plans and provided sufficient
funds in their annual budgets to cover the cost of the subprojects in the
first year.
Table 5.03: PROJECT FINANCING jj
Local Support     IDA    USAID    Total
Component          Source    Amount
US$ H
Gujarat            GOG/GOI      16      62       31       108
Himachal Pr,-desh   GCHP/GOI    11      24        12       48
Rajasthan          GORIGOI       8      17         9       33
Uttar Pradesh      GOUP/GOI    46       61       27       134
GOI Support          GOI       2.5     1.5         1        5
Office
Total                      83     165       80       328
Percentage                 26      50       24       100
Foreign Exchange              82.4   160.0     79.0    321.4
Local Costs                    0.5     5.0      0.9       6.4
1/ The figures in this table include contingencies.



-40-
5.04    Retroactive financing by IDA of up to US$14.5 M would be provided to
cover the following expenditures incurred after October 1, 1984: .nursery
development, advance soil works for plantations, and incremental staff
employed on 1985 planting operation.
C. Procurement
5.05   For items to be financed by IDA, the following procurement procedures
would be applied.
5.06    Civil Works (US$24.5 N).  Requirements would consist mainly of hous-
ing of standardized design, office and training facilities and small inspec-
tion huts, which would not attract international bids as they would be widely
scattered both geographically and over time. Larger contracts (over
Rs 100,000) would be avarded on the basis of competitive bidding following
local advertisement and in accordance with established state procedures which
are satisfactory to IDA. The local contracting industry in India is well
developed and adequate competition would be offered. Contracts would be
handled through the Public Works Department or Forest Department. Smaller
civil works (inspection huts) located in remote areas would be built depart-
mentally by force account.
5.07    Vehicles. Kauipment and Furniture (US$11.7 M).  These items are
needed in small quantities and are available locally. As adequate main-
tenance facilities and availability of spare parts would be important,
locally made vehicles of types already used by government departments would
be procured according to well-established government procedures which are
acceptable to IDA. Usually items such as cars, motocycles, bicyles, barbed
wire and office furniture and equipment would be purchased on rate contract
approved by the Director General of Supplies and Disposals, GOI, or otherwise
sanctioned by the state government. Such purchases are made from firms with
whom the state Department of Stores Purchase, the state government's central
purchasing organization, has entered into a rate contract valid for a par-
ticular period, generally one year. The Stores Purchase Department calls for
tenders, evaluates and enters into rate contract with the lovest evaluated
bidder, following procedures adopted by DGSD. Other items (e.g., polythene
bags) would be procured by field officers through local competitive bidding.
5.08    For all contracts for civil works, vehicles, equipment and furniture
estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, before bids are invited, IDA would be
furnished for its comments, the test of the invitations to bid and the
specification, other bidding and draft contract documents together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding.
Orders for purchase of minor equipment, furniture and supplies would be



-41-
bulked wherever possible and purchased according to established local bidding
procedures, except where valued at less than US$50,000 and not in the rate
contract list, when they would be purchased by prudent shopping through
normal trade channels. Assurances on procurement procedures mentioned in
paras 6.06-6.08 were obtained.during negotiations.
5.09    The balance of project costs (US$291.6 M) would consist of plantation
activities and fuel-saving devices (US$211.4 M), adaptive research, support
to state agricultural universities and special studies and evaluation
(US$0.4 M), training (US$5.4 M), technical assistance (US$0.3 M), incremental
salaries and travel allowances (US$53.8 H), and incremental office and
vehicles operating expenditure (US$20.3 M) which would not involve procure-
ment. All of the above figures include contingencies, which amount to
US$62.8 M. Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
Table 5.04: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Millions)
-   Procurement Method   --       Total
ICB     LCB    OTHER       NA       Cost
Civil Works                        -     5.9     18.6        -        24.5
(3.0)    (9.3)              (12.3)
Vehicles and Equipment             -       -     '11.7       -        11.7
_   ; 9)               (1.9)
Training                           -       -         -      5.4        5*4
(2.7)     (2.7)
Support to SAUs, Special          -        -        -       0.7        0.7
Studies and Tech'l As6'ce                                (0.3)     (0.3)
Plantation Activities and          -       -         -    211.4     211.4
Fuel Saving Devices                                    (126.8)   (126.8)
Salaries & Allowances             -        -        -      53.8       53.8
-       -        -    (18.8)    (18.8)
Vehicle and Office O&M             -       -         -     20.3       20.3
and Other Expenditures                   -        -      (2.2)     (2.2)
-     5.9      30.3   291.6      327.8
(3.0)    (11.2) (150.8)   (165.0)
(Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by the credit.)



-42-
D. Disbursement
5.10    Project funds would be disbursed over five-and-a-half years and
completed by September 1990, about six months after project completion,
coterminus with the Seventh Five-year Plan Period on March 31, 1990. The
estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed IDA credit and the USAID
funds is given in Annex 5. This is to be compared with the eight year di8-
burcement period for the forestry and fisheries subsector in South Asia and
in India. While experience with social forestry projects in India is admit-
tedly limited, disbursement of the first two social forestry credits (in
Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh) will be completed by or before their closing
dates, i.e., within six years and these states would account for a substan-
tial part of the proposed NSFP. The other states (Rajasthan and Himachal
Pradesh), although new to IDA financing in this subsector, have experience
with social forestry which should enable them to carry out their projects in
a timely manner. Furthermore, the retroactive financing proposed to enable
the states to prepare for the initial year planting season should help plan-
tation activities to move rapidly. Civil works and procurement of vehicles
would also be early in the implementation period and the declining disburse-
ment rate proposed to be applied to incremental staff costs and vehicle
operating and maintenance costs should also favor rapid disbursement of the
credit.
5.11    The proposed IDA credit of US$165.0 M would be disbursed as follows:
(a) Field activities, including farm forestry and nursery development;
tree ownership on government waste land; community wasteland planta-
tions; and reforestation of degraded forests and strip plantations
on government land; fuel savings devices: 60% of total costs;
Cb) Incremental staff salaries: 30% of total costs, to be financed on
a declining basis: year 1, 50%; year 2, 41%; year 3, 31Z; year 4,
26% and year 5, 21%;
(c) Travel allowances: 62% of total costs, to be financed on a declin-
ing basis: year 1, 100%; year 2, 85Z; year 3, 75%; year 4, 55%; and
year 5, 40%;
(d) Civil works including building maintenance: 50% of total costs;
(e) Vehicles: 100% of ex-factory price or 75% of purchase price if
procured locally;
(f) Vehicle operating costs: 50% of total costs, to be financed on a
declining basis: year 1, 100%; year 2, 80%; year 3, 50%; year 4,
30Z and none in year 5;



-43-
(g) Furniture and equipment: 100% of c.i.f. costs if imported; 100%
of ex-factory price if locally manufactured or 75% of purchase price
if procured locally; and
(h) Scaff training, farmqr training, central workshops, technical assis-
tance, special studies and -'acarcL grants: 50% of total costs.
5.12    The proposed USAID assistance of US$80.0 M would be disbursed as
follows:
(a) Field activities, including farm forestry and nursery development;
tree ownership on government waste land ; community wasteland plan-
tations; and reforestation of degraded forests and strips planta-
tions oD government land; promotion of fuel savings devices: 30% of
total costs;
(b) Incremental staff salaries: 30% of total costs, to be financed on a
declining basis: year 1, 50%; year 2, 41Z; year 3, 31%; year 4,
26%; and year 5, 21%;
(c) Staff training, farmer training, central workshops, technical assis-
tance, special studieE and research grants: 50% of total costs.
5.13    Disbursements against expenditures for the following items would be
made against certified statemerts of expenditures: (a) staff salaries,
operating costs, local training and plantation costs; (b) civil works con-
tracts not exceeding Rs 300,000 and those carried out under force account;
Cc) locally procured vehicles, equipment and furniture costing Rs 150,000 or
less, (d) research, studies and local consultant costs. The documentation
for these expenditures would not be submitted to IDA for review but would be
retained by state goverDments and GOI. These documents would be available
for inspection by IDA during project review missions. Certificates of expen-
ditures would be audited at least once every year and a report submitted to
IDA within nine months of the end of each fiscal year. Disbursements against
all other items and excluding the above would be contingent upon full and
satisfactory documentation. All disbursement applications would be submitted
to IDA through the Department ef Economic Affairs (DEA) of GOI. Assurances
covering the above were obtained during negotiations.
5.14    Similarly, USAID loan funds (US$77 X) would be disbursed against
plantation costs, fuelwood saving devices, and staff salaries upon receipt
of certified statements of expenditure. As stated above, these would be
forwarded by the cognizant project authority to the IBRD office in New Delhi.
IDA would review each statement and effect disbursement from Washington of
its share of the various line items as described in para 5.11. IDA would
then forward a copy of the certified statement to USAID/New Delhi along vith



-44-
a statement of the IDA funds disbursed against the statement. USAID would
then initiate disbursement of its share as reflected in para 5.12.
5.15    USAID grant funds (US$3 M) would be used to finance project
"software" activities identified as line items for domestic staff training,
international staff training, farmer training and extension, technical assis-
tance, special studies and evaluation, research operations and grants to
state agricultural universities. In those instances where these activities
are undertaken directly by the implementation agencies themselves, grant
funds would be disbursed upon receipt of certified statements of expenditure
processed in the manner described above for loan funds. In those instances
where the implementing agency contracts with or grants funds to a separate
party such as a state agricultural university, non-governmental organization
or independent research groups to provide services, USAID would disburse
against certified statements of expenditure, providing the original contracts
or grant agreements were reviewed and approved by USAID prior to their execu-
tion. Finally, in certain instances it is expected that USAID may be asked
by the implementing agencies to arrange for the provision of certain services
on their behalf. In these cases direct financing, most likely through direct
USAID contracts, would be in order. International staff training is the best
example of this situation, although it may also arise in the provision of
Indian or expatriate technical assistance or in making certain domestic staff
training, special studies, evaluation and research arrangements. IDA and
USAID will continually consult on the most effective means of sharing the
cost of such activities. It may be, for example, that in some instances,
IDA may fully finance an individual activity and in others USAID would bear
all costs. Ultimately, however, it is expected that cost of all such
"software" activities would be equally shared by IDA and USAID as reflected
in Annex 5 on disbursements.
E. Accounts and Audit
5.16    Assurances were obtained that separate accounts would be kept of
expenditures made under the project, the principal format having been agreed
with the Accountant General. In each state, the forest department, at head-
quarters and throughout its field offices, would maintain separate project
accounts in a readily identifiable form under a separate budget head with
subheads corresponding to disbursement categories specified in the staff
appraisal report. For the purpose of control of expenditures, divisional
accounts would be consolidated in the headquarters office while budgeted
expenditures would be consolidated and rendered to the Accountant General of
the state every month. The normal auditing procedures within the states
would continue to apply. These consist of an internal audit on the basis of
spot checks every six months and random annual checks including physical
verification of inventory ledgers, external audits carried out annually by
the Accountant General (Audit) GOI, and the forestry department's own annual



-45-
spot check of stores and equipment. All project accounts would be audited
annually for each fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing principles,
consistently applied, and the audit reports, together with certified copies
of project accounts, submitted to IDA and USAID within nine months after the
end of the fiscal year. Such.reports and audits would show, inter alia, that
the funds withdrawn were used for the purpose intended, that goods have been
received or work performed, and that payments have been made. All reports
vould be submitted by the states through the Special Secretary of Forests to
the DEA, GOI, for onward transmission to IDA and USAID.
VI. PRODUCTION. MARKETING. FINANCIAL RESULTS AND COST RECOVERY
A. Production
6.01    The main output from both farm forestry (which accounts for about 77%
of plantings in the proposed project) as well as plantations established o-n
government and community lands would be fuelvood and poles. Other important
products would be bamboo, small timber, fodder leaves and grasses, fruits and
minor forest products. Most plantation designs include a mixture of fuel-
wood, fruit and fodder producing species, with local variations such as
greater emphasis on bamboos in Gujarat and fodder in H.P.
6.02    In all cases, and as far as practicable, plantation designs stress
quick-maturing and coppicing species which enable early harvesting, thinning
and lopping to provide household fuelwood needs as well as allow for natural
regeneration. The species have been chosen for their adaptability in social
forestry situations and many are truly multi-purpose. The relative quan-
tities by category of products could vary somewhat in reality; for instance,
trees grown for pole production could be sold for fuelwood and vice versa,
depending on farmer or market requirements. Production which is based on
yields experienced to date, are shown below in Table 6.01.



-46-
Table 6.01 ESTIMATED PRODUCTION AT FULL DEVELOPMENT aJ
Himachal
Uttar Pradesh      Guiarat     Raiasthan        Pradesh
Fuelvood            mt     740,000        3,900,000        491,000              -
-conifer           mt           -                 -             -         26,200
-broadleaf         mt           -                 -             -      2,700,000
Poles               no  14,800,000       22,000,000      6,700,000              -
Small timber       cu m     89,000                 -        38,300
Bamboo              no            -       6,800,000              -               -
Grass               mt      67,000       82,000,000          8,110        180,000
Leaf fodder         mt            -         860,000            800      2,900,000
Dry fodder          mt            -          50,000               -              -
Stemwood           cu m- -                                       -        520,000
Edible flower       mt       8,000                 -             -               -
Fruit (inc. Ber)   mt        5,600           13,350         12,000
Neem seeds          mt           -            2,250              -
Bidi leaves         mt           -              304              -
Seed pods           mt           -                 -        59,000
Fallen
vood/lops          mt            -                -         8,200
Oilseeds            mt       5,000                 -             -
Cocoons          (000 nos)  60,000                 -        40,000
Other tree
by products        mt           -                -         40,000
A/  Full development years vary by products depending on gestation periods
and rotation cycles. For the major products, it is Years 10-15 in Uttar
Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan and Years 26 and 50 in Ilimachal Pradesh.
B. Marketing of Produce
6.03    A considerable proportion of the farm forestry produce beyond the
producers' own immediate requirements would be marketed in the form of
sawlogs, poles or fuelvood. Other products like lop and top, fallen twigs,
fodder leaves, grasses, fruits and minor forest products would be largely
home-consumed or sold to the local market on an intermittent basis. It is
expected that there would be no marketing constraint to the incremental
production from the farm forestry component; the products would go to assuage
a growing scarcity for fuelvood and fodder, indicated by 6Z per year real
price increases in recent years as well as by extensive wood pilferage and
overgrazing on government and community lands in all the states covered by
the project.



-47-
6.04    The produce from tree tenure schemes for the landless and po)r would
mainly go to beneficiary participants in these schemes. The product's from
planting on community vastelands would be distributed more broadly, with free
collection of fallen wood and minor forest products by local villagjrs
(including innovative features such as free headloads to harvest 1:borers
employed by the Forest Department in Gujarat), and produce sharing'between
panchayats and forest departments, the latter for cost recovery pitposes. In
departmentally-mana2ed plantations, forest departments would appripriate the
bulk of the harvest; it is intended, however, actively to encourage par-
ticipation in management by local communities (whether groups of farmers or
panchayats) as soon as practicable, with the forest departments :ontinuing to
supervise and provide technical guidance.
6.05    Panchayats would generally sell their share of product jy local
auction (a fairly established process); however, forest extens.on officers
would seek innovative arrangements for more direct distributio.& of part of
the produce to local households, the poorer whl-h are generally unlikely to
be able to purchase their fuel and other woos needs. While piomoting such
direct distribution, however, there is a need to raise enough revenues from
auctions to hold panchayat interest and recover departmental costs.
6.06    The same concerns hold for produce from departmental plantations.
Forest departments generally auction their harvests at rural and urban
depots, invariably supplying sawmillers, timber merchants, packing case
industry and others who can afford to purchase their wood needs. Attempts to
channel part of this produce to rural households include proposals for free
collection of fallen wood, grasses and minor forest products by locals, as
well as free headloads to laborers recruited for harvesting; allocation of up
to 10% of harvest for free distribution to the local needy; and sales of part
of the harvest at concessional rates of 20-80% of market price. These
proposals have been put forward mainly in Gujarat, with variations in the
other states.
6.07    Given the shortage of forest products and fuelwood in India and the
multi-product nature of most trees, market saturation is not expected to be a
problem. In isolated instances, a glut of poles may be realized but these
could always be converted to small timber or fuelwood. Where earlier plant-
ings are reaching maturity, modest marketing assistance for small growers is
provided (as in Gujarat) and market information functions are incorporated in
the extension services.
6.08    The distribution modes showing the proportions of the benefits from
production to be shared by individual farmers, local poor households, village
panchayats and forest departments for each plantation model in each of the
four states are presented in Project Files Cl-C4. Other distribution modes
that could be tested in the course of the project include sale at conces-
sional prices or on a 'ration basis' to enable easy access to wood products



-48-
by both rural and urban poor households. The forest departments in each
state vill, as emphasized during appraisal, review different mechanisms for
produce distribution and exchange experiences vith other states in order to
develop improved but practical measures.
6.09    The wood balance situation in each of the four states is generally
not well known. Inventory figures are non-existent, and consequently little
is known about growth. Removal estimates are reasonable for legal harvests,
but either illegal removal are high or farm forests contribute far more than
expected. The current situation strongly suggests, hovever, that there are
dramatic imbalances in each state although there is little basis for either
projecting future balances or planning efficient long-term pregrams for
closing the gap between growth and renewals in critical commodities like
fuelvood. For these reasons, the Bank requires that states with social
forestry projects develop a reasonable information base to estimate wood
balances by fuelwood and roundwood, to project consumption levels vis-a-vis
alternative energy resources, and to predict future supply responses.
Assurances vere obtained from all states that they would continue to revise
and update these studies at least biannually.
C. Financial Results and Cost Recovery
6.10    The cash flows for plantation models (taken over a 30 year period)
also show the analyses of financial rates of return to the model and to
forest departments, and cost recovery to the departments. The detailed
tables are in Project File C6, and the results are summarized in Table 6.02.
6.11    Costs and returns have been calculated in 1985 financial prices.
Farmers' labor inputs and products accruing to rural households have been
valued at imputed prices equal to financial wages and prices. This
implicitly assumes that the farmer has the option to use his labor or the
plantation products at home or offer them for sale at market rates. The
analysis shows healthy financial rates of return for most models, mostly in
the 11-35% range except for strip plantations on government wastelands in
Gujarat and Rajasthan (4-8%). These lower rates of return are the result of
high investment costs (mainly borne by forest departments) and the exemption
of part of the plantations from harvest (for aesthetic, shade and demonstra-
tion purposes).
6.12    Financial rates of return to the forest departments for the various
plantation models are substantially lower than the returns on the models
themselves (see columns 1 and 2 of Table 6.02). Despite these low FRRs,
investments are justified considering the economic benefits and other unquan-
tified benefits (para 7.10). In about half of the cases, the FRR for forest
department undertakings is zero or negative. The departments in Rajasthan
and Rimachal Pradesh do not intend to recover costs in six of their models



-49-
(see column 7 of Table 5.02). In the remaining models, forest departments
generally recoup from 100 to 200% of their initial cost outlays in nominal
terms. These figures reflect undiscounted costs and returns in 1985 prices,
whereas actual net present values at 12Z discount rate are generally nega-
tive, indicating a measure of Government subsidy over time (see Column 8 of
Table 6.02).
6.13    The particular mix of plantation models proposed in each state as
indicated by plantation targets (Column 9, Table 6.02) reflects a number of
objectives of this Project. Among these concerns are (i) the emphasis on the
development and finaacing of lower cost models (such as farm forestryl, (ii)
relative financial rates of return (suc-h as fewer strip plantations and more
planting on wastelands); (iii) emphasis on more direct distribution of
benefits to individual beneficiaries and panchayats (as in private wasteland
plantings by small and marginal farmers and community woodlots); as well as
(iv) cases where forest departments would be able to recover the direct cost
of field investments at least in nominal terms.



Table 6.02:   FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN AND COST RECOVERY
(per ha basis)
S of Benefits to           Total Cost to FD
FRR of   FRR of                             Forest  in nominal terms   Returas to   NPV to FD (at  Plantation
State/Model /a                                Model        VD     Villagers  Panchayat   Dept.        (over 30 yr.)    ?D as X of   12% Discount    Targets
I        2            2           2          2           Rs/ha          Coat to FD        Rate)           ha
Column      1         2           3           4           '             6                 7              8              9
UTTAR PRADESH
A. Farm Foreuery                               58.0       -          100           -          -             -                  -             -        201 mill seedlings
x                                                                     x                                                                               (134,000 ba equiv)
B, Tree Tenure for Poor
and Landless
(Beneficiary Manamed)
IA. Roadside Strip Plantation              10.9       0.5         76            -         24          18,941             112          -14,254              900
1. Railside Strip Plantation              10.0      -2.5         85            -         15          19,387              71          -17,699              310
2.  Group Fare Forestry                    23,1       2.4         84            -         16           8,804             186           -6,930           11,000
(Unirrigated block plantations)
3.  Irrigated Blocks (Arjun)               36.3   negative        100           -          -          15,600               0          -13,036            1,000
C. Plantineps on Community Wastelands
(Joint Dept.-Panchayat Manaded)
1.  Cc.munity Woodlots, Rainfed            19,2       2.3         64           18         18           8,804             186           -6,930           14,000
D. Plantina on Government Wasteland.
(Dept.-Managed)
2A. Roadside Strip Plantations             10.9       3.4         52            -         48          23,941             178          -12,033              600
23. Railside Strip Plantations             10.0       0.6         70            -         30          24,387             114          -16,801              140
A. Atroforestry
1. Farm Forestry                           31.6       -          100            -         -              -                 -             -        300 mill seedings
x                                                         x                                                                                           (200,000 ha equiv)
2.  Private Wasteland Planting by          25.9   negative       100            -         -            2,583               0           -2,131           30,500
Small and Marginal Farmers
C. Planting on Community Wastelands
1.  Community Woodlots, Rainfed            20.1       8.8         35           33         32           5,723             301           -1,349           20,000
2.  Community Woodlots, Irrigated          34.8      11.8           6          44         49         112,287             145             2,822           5,000
3.  Community Tree Fodder Lots             12.5       8.3          18          41         41           3,767             430           -1,069           10,000
D. Plantint on Government Wastelands
1.  Rehabilitation of Degraded Areas   15.7          14,3          11           -         89           6,215             590             1,305          30,400
2.  Strip Plantations                       5.9      -1.0         24           38         38          21,818              85          -11,604           15,000
3.  Urban Fuelwood Plantations             17.4      13.0          14           -         86         112,287             157             5,149           2,500



Table 6.02:   FINCIAL RATES OF RCSTURN AID COST RECOVERY (cant)
(per ha basis)
I of Beafits to            Total Cost to PD
nR of   FRR of                             ForpCt  in nominal terma   Retural to   UPV to lD (at  Plantation
State/Model /1                                Model       ?D     Villagera  Panchayst   Dept.    (over 30 yr.)    rD as 2 of   121 Discount    Targets
S        S           S           I          Z           Rat&b         Cost to PD         Rate)          ba
ColUm       1        2            3          4          5             6                                              9
A. AArgiJgtr
1.  form Forestry                         23 .5      -          100           -          -              -               -             -         120 mill seedlings
x                                                       x                                                                                          (80,000 ba aqul)
3.  Improved (Grafted BSr) Orcbards    99.4   negative          100           -          -             125               0         -112          400,000 plants
x                                                       x                                                                                          (4,000 hi *quiv)
S  Tree tanura for Poor and Landlese
2. Household Far. Forestry
- per ha basis                        18.7   negative       100           -          -           2,276              0   )   -2,071                7,500
- per participant bsis  )             15.0   negative       100           -          _           5,690              0   )   -4,181
C. PlAntinn on Counitv W           Cagus
1.  Commuilty hoodlots                    12.8   negative        27          73          -           4,807               0         -4228              5,000
D. PlAnt1nA on 0_ wainu     Sle1.tlDdA
1.  Rababilitation of Degraded            31.4       5.9         17                     63           3,065             211          -957             20,000
forests
2A  Roadside Strip tlantations             6.3       0.5         12          33         55          32,125             109       -11,949              2,500        &
21  Lilasde Strip Plantations              3.7      -t.2         23          49         27          28,220              42       -11,537              1,000        t
2C  Canalside Strip Plattatiozs            7.7       4.4          9          19         72          32,125             159        -9,007                300
2D  flood Control and Tank                23.1       7.5         30          35         35           7,659             196          -949                500
Embankmenta
NIKACUAL PRADISE
A.  MJAUEgfg ZZr
1. Fam Forestry                         33.8 t                 100                                    -                -            -               53,000
X                                                                                        z                                                             hh  equiv
2. Private Wasteland Plantation         36.9    negative       1002          -          -           2,824              0        -2,483              13,000
Group ram Forestty
S.  Tres Tenure
2.  Croup Farm Forestry                 35.3        1.2         96           -          4           4,225             143       -3,548               1,10
Goverment Lands                                                                                                                               ha equiw
C. Comnity WVastelJes
1.  Woodlots Self Help                  35.3        1.2          1          95          4           4,225              70       -3,548               1,000
(Panebayat Kaniged)
2.  Woodlote                            35.3        1.2         72           -         28           4,225             933        -1,124             40,000
(Dept-Kanaged)
D.  CGovsront VAsteland
1.  Rebabilitation of                   22.4       13.6         26           -         74           5,125          1,219          1,216              5,000
Degraded Areas
/I  For F omplete schematic presentation of models, see Table 4.02, page 20.



-52-
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.01    Social forestry represents an ideal project in many ways for dealing
witb poverty in rural areas, as well as for dealing with energy scarcity at
household levels and avoiding further degradation of land. The most direct
beneficiaries under the proposed project would be farmers planting trees on
their own lands. Through species selection, wide dispersion of nurseries,
seedling distribution methods and extension efforts, more small farmers would
be involved than has been initially experienced with social forestry
projects. Under the proposed project about 6 to 8 K farmers, mainly small
and marginal (under four ha), are expected to participate in NSFP in the four
states. Other beneficiaries would be the rural and semi-urban population in
these states who depend heavily on such forest produce as firewood, small
timber and poles for their everyday needs. The rural poor, including land-
less laborers, small and marginal farmers, members of tribal groups and other
disadvantaged communities would be particularly benefitted by the additional
output generated by the project and by part of the output from plantations on
public land that would be distributed to them for their labor or at low
prices. Indirect benefits would flow to the population as a whole from the
improvement in wood balances and energy supplies in these states, as well as
from environmental enhancement.
Institutional Development
7.02    The institutional development, which is the core of NSFP, would
represent the most important long-term benefit of the project, for it would
help to enable and to sustain increased economic and environmental develop-
ment not only in the states directly benefitting but also, by establishing
the central Social Forestry Support Office, in all states and territories of
India. Both at the state level and at the center, greater coordination of
various schemes which support social forestry would make mo-e efficient use
of the resources invested in them. With the substantial increase in social
forestry which is called for under the Prime Ninister's ne, Ten Point Program
and the Seventh Five Year Plan, such institutional strengthening is of utmost
importance.
7.03    In the states, the forest departments would be reorganized to give
more emphasis to social forestry activities and social forestry. Forest
department planning, training, extension and monitoring and evaluation
capabilities would be strengthened. Efforts would be made to involve local
commnities in the planning and management of village woodlots and other
community forestry schemes. This would also involve strengthening the
linkages between social forestry and agricultural extension, as well as other
closely related rural development activities. The small nurseries which



-53-
would be promoted by the project, beyond benefitting their operators with an
additional source of funds, could in time be taken over by them, ultimately
leading to development of a network of privately operated nurseries.
Production Impact
7.04    The incentive for small farmers under farm forestry is substantial
since they would retain all of the revenues from any of the produce sold.
Less obvious would be the impact on production from more equitable arrange-
ments for distribution of the product under other social forestry schemes.
Much of the reason why wood flow imbalances and forest degradation occurs is
that most people do not have a vested interest in harvesting at sustainable
rates and investing to increase future sustainable rates on community or
government lands. This is the difficulty of common property and com-
mon-access property rights that exist on much of the legal forest, revenue
lands and marginal cultivated lands used in social forestry. By sharing in
the benefits the poor have a greater vested interest in making social
forestry work.
7.05    The project would promote improved production methods and cost reduc-
tion in seedling production and distribution and in management of planta-
tions, including protection. Research efforts supported by the project would
also be directet to cost reduction.
7.06    The project would also help to improve flexibility in production.
Given the relatively short growing period required before harvesting many of
these plantations (five to eight years), through improved planning, including
wood balance and other marketing studies, production could be directed to
meet expected priority needs, taking into account social objectives and
financial return.
Conservation
7.07    The project wouid have positive enviornmental izpact.  The imbalance
between timber growth and removals is causing rapid depletion of timber
inventories and degradation of soil and water resources, coupled with a
disproportionate negative impact on the rural poor. Pressures on existing
forest land have mounted in recent years, and will continue to do so if
fuelvood shortages are allowed to become even more acute. The project would
help to ease these pressures, while at the same time restoring trees to many
areas now degraded and subject to erosion. As indicated above, by greater
involving of the rural poor and rural communities in social forestry and
giving them a stronger interest to invest in increases in future sustainable
harvesting rates, it may be pcssible to improve the wood flow imbalance and
reverse forest degradation.



-54-
Ernloyment Generation
7.08    Project-financed plantations would generate about 100 M laborer-days
of work on establishment and maintenance, usually extending over a six year
period for each plantation area started during the five yeaxa of the project.
These activities provide a major source of employment for landless people,
especially women. Direct incremental employment in the forest departments
would be relatively small under the four state projects: about 10,000 new
jobs created in social forestry operations, including 5,156 key positions
(mainly field staff, see Table 3.03). Incremental employment has been kept
to a minimum in the interest of not burdening state budgets and sus-
tainability after the project period. The 4,300 small nurseries would
provide employment for approximately 9,000 farmers and others operating them,
not counting occasional nursery labor.
B. Economic Analysis
7.09    The economic rate of return on the Project is 27Z and for each of
the four States the rates are as follows: Uttar Pradesh 25Z, Gujarat 26Z,
Rajasthan 17%, and Himachal Pradesh 34%. For details see Table 7.01 and
Annex 6. These Base Case results have been computed on the following basis:
vi) All costs taken are base costs, including physical contingencies;
(ii) investment costs are taken over project period (Years 1-6)
including pre-project year (Year 0), and without replacements;
(iii) 100% of staff costs for project period and 100% of extension
staff costs for Year 7-15 have been taken; this provides for
forest departments' supervision and extension for individual
schemes for at least ten years with eventual handing over to
local beneficiaries or panchayats;
(iv) 100% of other recurrent project costs for the project period and
100% of costs of extension components only in Years 7-15 for the
reasons indicated in (iii) above; and
(v) plantation recurrent costs are taken through Year 31.
7.10    The rates calculated underestimate the real returns by not including
other important external benefits of the project, amongst others:
(i) demonstration effect of highly visible plantings on private,
community and government vastelands and peripheries of houselots
and fields, which have made important contributions to greater



-55-
community and political awareness and uptake of the social
forestry program;
(ii) tangible benefits from replacement of tree cover, arrest of soil
erosion and land degradation and consequences for improved soil
productivity over the medium and long-term;
(iii) improved socio-ecological environment including aesthetic, shade,
improved health and other effects from trees, smokeless stoves,
etc.;
(iv) improved efficiency in project implementation arising from and
learning effects from project monitoring and evaluation, cost
effective plantation protection measures, nursery layout and
propagation techniques, research trials, and exchange of
experiences between states which would be actively fostered by
the Central support office;
(v) increase in productivity that could be attributed to time savings
by the local communities, particularly women, resulting from
vastly improved access to nearby woodlots and other planted sites
for their fuel and fodder collection needs;
(vi) time savings resulting from the use of improved stoves,
crematoria, and pressure cookers; and
(vii) increase in agricultural productivity as a result of returning
animal dung and agricultural wastes to the fields, in cases where
they would otherwise be collected to meet fuel needs.
7.11    In the calculation of economic costs and benefits, all values are in
1985 constant prices at exchange rate of Rs 12 - US$1. The economic analysis
has been made in border rupees, using a standard conversion factor of 0.8 and
specific conversion factors which are described in Project File C6, Item 3.
Due to seasonal unemployment and under employment, wage rates vary, for
example, in Gujarat from highs of about Rs 13 in seasons of peak agrictiltural
demand to lows of Rs 8 in other periods. It is estimated that 25% of social
forestry activities take place in the season of high wages, giving a weighted
shadow wage rate for unskilled labor which comes to about 702 of the finan-
cial wages which have been prescribed under the Minimum Wages Act in each of
the states. Traded goods and services have been valued on the basis of their
financial c.i.f. import prices, adjusted by tax rates, foreign exchange
component and local material and labor inputs. The opportunity cost of land
is taken to approximate zero in the economic rate of return calculations as
the social forestry plantings are either on very poor, highly overgrazed and
marginal lands with virtually no displacement of agricultural crops, or on



-56-
peripheries with no shade or deleterious effects on field crops. Departmen-
tal plantings are on wastelands and no land value has been imputed. A sum-
mary of economic and financial prices used are shown in Annex 7.
C. Sensitivity Analysis
7.12    As summarized in the Table 7.01 below, the economic rate of return
shows little sensitivity to changes in most variables. Total benefits would
have to decrease by 67Z for the rate of return of the project to fall below
the opportunity cost of capital at 12%; alternatively, total project cost
would have to increase by 201%. Under the unfavorable circumstances of both
a reduction in benefits by 20% and an increase of costs by 20% (or a lag in
the benefit stream by one year), the economic rate of return for the project
would still be 21% and in every state it vould equal or exceed the oppor-
tunity cost of capital.
Table 7.01: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSESI1
(Percentage)
Economic Rate of Return
Himachal                  Uttar
Guiarat    Pradesh      Rajasthan   Pr'ldesh   NSFP
Base Case                        26          34           17         25        27
Total Benefits down 20%           22         31           14          21       23
lagged 1 yr.      22         30           15          21       24
Total Costs up 20%                23         32           14          22       24
Total Costs up 20% and
benefits down 20%              19          28           12         18        21
Switchins Values
Total benefits                  -59         -87          -42        -56       -67
Total Project Costs             144         647           71        127       201
a/ Opportunity cost of capital - 12%.



-57-
D. Proiect Risks
7.13    The project faces no major risks that might endanger its overall
viability during the five-year implementation period. The forest departments
have sufficient capacity and experience to implement the departmental planta-
tion schemes and sufficient funds have been earmarked in the state budgets to
cover these projects. Shortage of funds could become a problem, however,
should the state over-extend itself on forestry or other programs. In farm
forestry, the levels of seedling distribution under the state subprojects
should be easily attainable even with the limitations on free seedling dis-
tribution called for under the project. While farmer acceptance of higher
levels of seedling distribution is unlikely to be a problem, and wastage and
survival rates should be within reasonable limits, risks of such losses would
be increased if other seedling distribution programs in these states under
various centrally sponsored and donor schemes should create an over-supply of
planting stock or over-extend the staff and other resources available.
Therefore, the participating states gave assurances during negotiations that
they would inform the Association about any major developments concerning
social forestry programs carried out by their forest departments, in order to
enable the Association to evaluate the impact, if any, these developments
might have on project-financed activities.
7.14    The extension staff employed by the forest departments under NSFP
have been kept to a minimum by supplementing field contacts vith farmers
through the agricultural extension services, which would give advice on
proper tree planting and maintenance techniques. This approach necessarily
involves certain risks since it depends on effective coordination and
cooperation between the forest department and the agricultural department.
To minimize the risks, the two services in each state have undertaken to
exchange memoranda of understanding or issue government orders outlining how
this cooperation would be effected and the responsibilities of each. Where
improved professional extension service promoted by the Bank is just being
established-in Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh-this necessarily involves
more uncertainty than in the other states where T&V agricultural extension
services are well established and arrangements are already underway for the
forestry departments to work through agricultural extension in their farm
forestry programs.
7.15    Since it is expected that farmers under the project would plant a
large proportion of trees for sale as poles, timber or other products of
higher value than firewood, there is also a theoretical risk of market
saturation. Given the apparent shortages of wood products this risk is
considered remote. The wood supply and demand studies to be carried out
under the project would help to provide the data needed to effectively
monitor the situation. Wood balance studies to develop a basis for estimat-
ing consumption and planning future supplies are needed if social forestry is



-58-
to become a sustainable social and economic basis for continued rural
development and alleviation of rural poverty.
7.16    The five-year implementation period of NSFP will not assure that all
the institutional changes are made which would put social forestry on a
socially and economically sustainable basis after the current period of major
donor funding. Social forestry represents a means of creating assets and
giving ownership and control of those assets to rural poor people. Tree and
fodder tenurial rights and the assignment of those rights to poor people is a
difficult problem which cannot be dealt with in a short period of time in a
large democratic society. NSFP would make a major contribution towards
changing the nature of tenures on various products of public and common land.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI and from the
states involved on the following:
(a) The project states would by March 31, 1988 carry out studies of the
organizational issues in their forest departments, which would
include, inter alia, the relationship of various social forestry
schemes (para 2.22);
(b) The project states would review current arrangements concerning
procedures for selecting participants for private wasteland planting
schemes, tree tenure schemes, community managed woodlots and tree
fodder plantations, the rights and responsibilities of these par-
ticipants and the procedures for advising them of their rights and
responsibilities; where Government orders and instructions, including
proforma agreements, are not comprehensive, the states would take
appropriate remedial action by December 31, 1985 (para 3.05);
tc) The project states would undertake socio-economic studies to ascer-
tain farmer response to charging for seedlings, as a basis for deter-
mining a program of action for implementing the principle of full
cost recovery; the results of these studies would be discussed with
the Association at the time of the mid-term review (para 3.16), and
thereafter they would start implementing their programs; until such
programs are undertaken, for the project, eachA state would gradually
reduce free distribution of project seedlings in accordance with a
schedule agreed with IDA and seedlings above the free limit would be
charged for at rates, also agreed with IDA, which would progressively
be increased to cover the direct cost of production (para 3.10);



-59-
(d) Each state would undertake a joint review of the project with GOI,
IDA and USAID promptly after the third year's planting program, and
not later than March 31, 1988 (para 3.16);
(e) Each state would revise policies governing provision of vehicles and
travel allowances, as needed, to ensure requisite mobility for field
staff (para 3.17);
(f) By December 31, 1985, both Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh would
make arrangements to ensure that their Departments of Forest and
Department of Agricultural Extension Services cooperate to provide
social forestry extension services to farmers (para 3.18);
(g) By December 31, 1985, Rajasthan would sanction the position of Con-
servator for Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Uttar Pradesh
would sanction the positions of Additional Chief Conservator of
Forests and a Conservator of Forests for Planning; (para 3.23);
(h) By April 30, 1986 GOI would furnish to the Association the proposed
structure of the central forestry organization (para 3.30);
*i) By April 30, 1985 GOI would sanctioD and by October 31, 1986 fill
the position of the head of the Central Social Forestry Support
Office and thereafter maintain that position and those of the Chief
Project Economist and the Deputy IGF/Monitoring and Evaluation
(para 3.31);
Cj) The Government of Rimachal Pradesh would maintain a single line of
command from the circle Conservator down for field staff, and a
steering committee headed by the Forestry Secretary would meet at
least quarterly to discuss and assign work priorities (para 4.05);
Ck) Each state would undertake monitoring and evaluation of its project
in accordance with the Guidelines agreed by GOI and the Bank and
would forward simmary results to IDA and USAID at least once a year
(para 4.07);
(1) In order to ensure the coordination of forestry activities among all
state agencies, the project states would maintain coordination com-
mittees for social forestry activities (4.09);
(m) Each state would prepare and submit semi-annual progress reports,
and the Social Forestry Support Office would prepare a project com-
pletion report (para 4.10);
(n) The participating states and GOI would implement procurement proce-
dures satisfactory to IDA (para 5.08);



-60-
to) Each state would prepare and present to GOI for tranmission to IDA
and USAID administrative and financial data regarding progress of the
project, including procurement of goods and services, civil works,
expenditures, audits and requests for disbursement in accordance with
the schedules agreed (paras 5.13 and 5.16);
(p) Each state would continue to revise and update its wood balance study
at least biannually (para 6.09); and
(q) The project states would inform the Association about any major
developments concerning social forestry programs carried out by their
forest departments, in order to enable the Association to evaluate
the impact, if any, these developments might have on project-ftnanced
activities (para 7.13).
8.02    To encourage the prompt implementation of the project and to recog-
nize the early initiatives taken by GOI and the state governments to imple-
ment the project, it is recommended that retroactive financing by IDA up to a
total of US$14.5 M be made available for expenditures incurred after
October 1, 1984 (para 5.04).
8.03    With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for
a credit of SDRs 166.1 M (US$165.0 H) to GOI on standard IDA terms.



INIMA
SOCIAL FOR1STRT PROGRAM DURING SlT FIVE TZAR PUA! (1950-85)
A -PIT IXCAL AC8IIVZKUTS .J
--------- Centrally Sponsored Schmes -        -------- --- -             --Donor-Asited Scemes-                  State              Total2/
INtl Rural       Other
Rural Fuel    Drought Prone       Small A Kargi-  E ploymat         Integrated                                            (Zatt  ted)
Wood Program   Areas Program       nal Parers       Program          Rural Dev't.    World                                    State       *Ot-
(UIM-iq. 4At.)  (DPAP-Min ID) 31  (BrP-Kit AS)   NRIP-MinRd  /  (Min-Rd)               Back    USAID    SIDA    CIuD          Scbes 5/  Plan    TOTAL
Andhra Pradesh       23,367             43,580             52,820         19,365             *                       -       -     55,125         93,000       *      287,437
Assam                14,874                -               21,440             763             *             -        -       -        _           10,000       0       47,077
Bihar                25,335             24,648             93,920         22,864             *             -         -      -         -          56,000        *      222,767
Cujarat              13,891             14,092             34,890         15,776             *          274,280      -       -        -         105,000        *      437,919
laryana              14,169             10,654             14,850         10,544                         28,972      -       -        -          57.000        *      136,219
limachal Pradesh    12,120                 -               11,040          2,702             *-                              -        -          33,00                 568U2
Ja_m & Kashair        1,000                102             12,000          2,207             *           16,87       -                           2300          *       5,196
aruataka             17,272             14,823             28,000         49,083             '           49,669      -       -        -          53,000        '      211,847
terala               10,74                 -               24,160          3,751                           5,905     -       -        -           13,000       *       57,562
Nsdhys Pradesh       29,103             21,373             73,280         25,830              *             -     IJ,819    -         -         181,000        '      349,405
Kaharaehtra           6,019             25,836             47,630          4,751             '              -     18,333    -         -         135,000        *      240,569
Xanipur              22,750                -                4,160            810             *             -         -       -        -          14,000        *       41,720
Neghalaya            33,910                -                3,840            453             *             -         -       -        -           5,000        *       43,203
Nsgaland              7,719                -                3,360             -              *             -         -       -        -          10,000                21,079
Oriese               19,339             26,840             50,240         84,511             *             -         -      5,653     -          70,000               256,583
Punjab               12,006                -               18,880          5,577             *             -         -       -        _          15,000        *       51,463
Rajasthan            26,700             78,010             37,760         30,615             *             -         -      -         -          50000        *     223,085
Sikkm                 1,460                -                  640            IS             *             -         -      -         -           5,000        o       7,280
Tamil Nadu           26,520             19,492             60,480         15,563             *             -         -    52,288      -         132,000        *     306,643
Tripura               5,430                -                2,720         22,808             *             _         _       -        -           4,000        *      34,958
Uttar PradeSh        19,067             20,350            141,920         40,604             *           95,071      -      -         -         145,O00        *     462,012
West Bengal           7,215             31,091            53,600           7,426             '           62,351          -            -          68,000        *     229,683
(UTe)                19,976                -              16,160                             -                  -        -            -          23,000        *      59,136
TOTAL Vi          370,308           333,S91            607,810         366,133             *          533,135  37,152  57,941  55,285    1,300,000          *   3,861.705
.................a..                              *                 ..5 ............  .55=..   ...  "S_   .    .....            ..... .....  - *_
.   Data trees pleated under form forestry were converted to hectares by dividing number planted by 1500.
.1 Since 0otber Integrated Rural Develop untw and 'Non-Plan' figures were not available, Totals do not reflect full extent
of social forestry; also see footnote J/ below.
/  DPAPI figures up to 1983/84.
N/ RIP: Figures from 1980-84, and up to June 1984.
./  These are Plan figures, and GOI suggests that actual achievments say be such higher.
, I



INDIA
SOCIAL FORESTRY PROGRAM DURING SIXTH FIVE YEMA  PLAN (190-65)
B. FINANCIAL POSITION 1/
(RB. 11)
--------------------- Centrally Sponsored Schemes ------                                    --- Donor-Assisted Schemes -----           State            Total 2.
Natl Rural        Other
Rural Fuel    Drought Prone          Small & Margi-  Employment        Integrated                                                (Eltimated)
Wood Program   Areas Program          nal Farmers       Program         Rural Dev't.    World                                        State       Non-
(RIP-Min. Aa.)  (DPAP-Min RD) 31  (SHPP-Hin hi)    NRlP-MinRd 4J  (Hin-Rd)  B.ank                     USAID      jID.      CIDA    Schemes .J  Plan  TI.TAL
Andhra             63.673            40.545               16.350             *                 *             -            -         -     56.508        50.0       *     227.076
Pradesh
Assam              44.667               -                  6.7               *                 *             -            -         -       -           15.0       *       66.367
Bihar              68.07             35.486               29.35              *                 *             _           _         _                   52.7        *     185.606
Gujarat            57.136            35.684               10.9               *                            671.383         -         -       -         652.3        *   1,427.403
Haryana            49.9              27.3                  4.5               *                 *          114.62          -         -        -          9'2.9      *     289,22
Himachal           45.1                 -                  3.45              *                 *             --                              -          75.0             123.55
Pradesh
Jau  &              5.0               4.09                 2.876             *                 *           76.686         *         -       -           65.0       *     153.652
Kashmir
larnotaka          67.878            52.151                8.75              *                 *          117.78          -         _        -         100.0       *     346.559
Kerala             38.425               -                  7.375             *                 *           88.75          -         -       -           19.8             154.35
Madhya            177.017            76.322               22.95              *                 *             -        217.287       -        -         235.5       *      729.076
Pradeeb
Habaraebtra        28.792            50.546               14.0               *                 *             -        167.28        -        -         337,5             598.918  I
Manipur            99.223               -                  1.3               *                 *             _-                     -        -          19.3       '     119.823
Hegbalays          16.388                                    .75             *                 *             _-                              -          13.0              30.138
Nagaland          275.39                -                  1.05              *                 *             _-                             -            6.5      *      282.94
Oriers             48.306            27.065               15.7               *                 *             _           _       18.468    -            50.0      *      159.539
Funjab             39.372               -                  5.9               *                 *             -            -         -        -          53.5              98.772
Rajasthan          75.843            33.625               11.8               *                 *             -            -         -        -         117.8       *     239,068
Sikkim              6.89                _                   .2               *-                                                             -           15.0      *       22.09
Tamil Nadu         61.75             27.879               14.875             *                 *             -            -     292.988    -           420.0      *      817.492
Tripura             9.457               -                   .85              *                 *             _            _         -       -           10.0      *       20.307
Uttar Pradeah      57.457            45.524               44.075             *                 *          528.314         -         -        -         487.5      *   1,162.95
West Bengal        18.891            64.992               16.75              *                 *          162.71          --                 -          93.8      *      357.143
(UTa)             36.725                -                 10.05              *                 *             -           -         -        -           36.7      *       83.475
TOTAL 2/         1,391.35            521,209              251,301             *                          1,760.323     384.567  311.456  56.508   3,018.8          *   7,695.514
........            .............. no............. ...                                  Rua...sun....  ...  .flSS*   . .nU.s   ....*U*UWSS   S.
I./ Since final figures were not yet available by compilation of this table, the figures include an estimate
of azpenditures in last 6 months.
2.  Since "Other Integrated Rural Development" and "Non-Plan" figures were nbt available, Totals do not reflect full extent
of social forestry; also see footnote ./ below.
B DPAP: figures up to 1983/84.
Al MaP: Pigures from 1980-84, and up to June 1984.
.5  These are Plan figures, and GOI suggests that actual achievements may be much higher.
0!



-63-
ANNEX 2
lIUDIA
RATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Comparative Fiaures on Social Forestry Proiects
Uttar                 West
Pradesh    Guiarat    Benual   J & K    Karvana   Karnataka   Kerala    NSFP
A. Plantation Type
(2 Distribution)
Farm Forestry              8%        10:       56%        432      45%         80:       81%      77Z
Block/Degraded            26S        26Z       16%        39%       _         13%        141     5.5Z
Forests
Strip Plantations         51S        32%       22%       2.2%      14%         4Z         2%       2S
Village Woodlots           6S        312        6%      11.3%      18S          -         -     12.52
Other                      92         1%        -        4.5%      23%          3%        3%       2%
B.  Costs
(2 Total Base Cost)
Plantation &            30.5S      60.8%     69.3:       60.2       62%     63.42      56.0%      66%
Nurseries
Research                  .8S        .7Z        .1%                 .2%        .2%       .5Z       1S
Training                  2.9       1.52      1. 8       4.52      1.8%      1.72       6.0Z       42
organization and        41.9       35.6%     28.4%      31.6%     34.1%     34.7%        37%      29Z
Management*
Other                    23.9       1.4%        .4Z      3.6%      1.9%        -        1.5%       -
Total Project Costs    $46.5 H   $76.0 H    $43.5 M   $27.9 N   $39.2 H   $56.6 H   $54.5 N   $330 M
(100%)
Includes a11 maintenance and evaluation, extension and planning activities.



-64-                          Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Species Information
(a) Fuel. Timber and Fodder Species
Uttar                                Himachal
Pradesh    Raiasthan       Guiarat      Pradesh
Acacia catechu (s)                                         X           x
A. nilotica/arabica ts)     x              x               x           x
A. tortilis (s)                            x               x            -
A. auriculiformis           X
Alnus sp. (s)                                              -           X
Ailanthus excelsa                                          X            -
Albizzia leebck                                            x           X
Albizzia stipulata          -                                          x
Azadirachta indica          X              X
Bauhinia op.                -                                          X
Casuarina equisetifolia     -                              X           -
Cassia sisma                -              X               - 
Ceiba pentandra (Seaul)     -                              -           X
Dalbergia Sissoo            x              s               x           s
Eucalyptus tereticornis     x              s               x           s
(hibrid) jj
Grewia oppositifolia                                       -           X
Leucaena leucocephala (s)  X               X               X           -
Prosopis
juliflora/Chilensis (s)    s               x               x
P. cineraria (s)                           X               X           -
Quercus incana,
Q. semicarpifolia,
Q. dilatata   I                                           -           I
Tectona grandis                                            X           -
Bambusa spp.                              X                X           X
Dendrocalmus  strictus      X              X               X           -
Pinus roxburghii            -                              -
Pinus wallichiana
Populus ciliata             -                                          K
Robinia pseudacacia         -                              -           x
Shorea robusta              -                              -           x
Terminalia belerica         x                              -           X
Terminalia arjuna           X
Toona ciliata                                                          X
x = Most commonly used species
a = Trees commonly direct sown
1/' Small quantities of other Eucalyptus may also be used.
]/ In addition, of high altitudes in H.P., spruces, firs, deodar, birch,
horse-chestnut, vanut, cherry, willow and maple may be used.



-65-
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
(b) Fruit Trees
Uttar                                Himachal
Pradesh    Raiasthan       Guiarat      Pradesh
Anacardium occidentale         -           -               X
(cashew)
Annona squamosa                -           -               X
Artocarpus heterophyllus       X           -
Cordia trichotoma              -          X                X
Emblica officinalis            -           -               X           X
Feronia elephantum             -          -                X
Madhuca indica                 -           -               X
Mangifera indica (mango)       X          X                X           x
Psidium guyava (guava)         -           -               X           X
Moringa oleifera               X                           X
Morus alba. (mulberry)                                     X           X
Porgamia pinnata               x           -               -           -
Pithecolobium dulce            -          X                            -
Sesbania sp.                   X          X                x           -
Syzygium cuminii               -          -                X           -
Tmarindus indica (Tamarind)   X           X                X           -
Zizyphus mauritania (Ber)      x          Xx                           x



-66-
ANNEX 4
NDOIA                                  Page 1 of 2
NATIONL SOCIAL FEEIRY PROECT
Project Cowonents bh Year
(RFEES ';000J
gase Costs                             Total
0       1        2        3        4        5       RPEES   (USS '000)
=  = ,=== ==  =                          _
A. 6UJARAT
1. IR6IZATION AND   AUT              - 199375.8 183496.4 199484.4 19,595.4 16714.6   93,656.7   7,904.7
2. PHYSICAL TWRSETS            42,256.8 14,270.3 16,339.4 182,918.8 199,276.4 156h347.3   M91,409.0  74,284.1
3. RESEARCH                          -  1,023.2   854.2   758.5   673.6   671.1    3,990.7    331.7
4. EXIENSION                         -    626.O   533.1   540.6   539.1   S33.1    2,781.0    231.7
5. TRAINING                          -  lr332.2  r551.0  1,420.8  14t1.3  1,230.7    6,953.0    579.4
6. FLANING                           -    278.9   328.5   328.5   340.0   340.0    1,616.0    134.7
7. NWITRtINB AND EVALUATION          -  1,352.2   854.4   854.4   854.4   932.6    4,847.9    40'.0
S.b-Total 6UJVRT                 42r256.8 168r258.6 188,962.1 206,306.1 222,686.3 176,774.3 1OS,244.3  83,770.4
D. H   lIOd PRWAESH
1. ORSMIZADTION MM1  NAGEINNT        - 25,428.2 26,305*7 22,0255 25,167.7 25,650.3   124,577.4  10,381.5
2. PSICAL TARGS               17,389.0 U,743.6 51,479.8 59,60.4 67,028.8 44,942.1   284,143.7  23,678.6
3. RESEARC                           -  1,404.6   930.3  1644.0    790.4   855.9    5,625.2    468.tk.
4. EXIENSIUN                         -    99.4   916.9   626.3  1,314.0   616.7    4,373.2    364.4
5. RAuIflU                           -  19621.0  3,270.0  2,434.9  2,357.5  2,303.7    11,987.1   m.9
6. fflOcMING MD EALLATIN             -  3,M.3  2,755.0  4,964.6  2,416.7  2,458.1    16,316.7   1,359.7
Sd-Total HIilw  PRO              17,3B9.0 76,819.1 95657.7 91,55.7 99,075.0 76,926.7   447,023.2  37,251.9
C. RA.STIU
1. ORANIZATI0 N AN NWtUEIET         - 167M.2 14,242.2 12,721.0 12,716.3 14,670.3   71,071.9   5,922.7
2. PHTSICAL TRErS              2,412.9 18,464.3 36,510.5 42,298.9 54,055.9  46,269.8   200,012.2  16,667.7
3. DESENO                            -    626.1   391.1   439.7   392.9   392.9    2,242.7    186.9
4. EXTEJISIE                         -  2,217.3  2,435.?  19604.0  1,695.7  1,695.7    ?,648.6    904.1
5. TRAININ                           -  3MM.9   932.5    973.7   973.7   973.7    7,714.4    642.9
6. NIITRI  AND EUATION               -  2,046.6  1,65.5  1,856.2  1,856.2  1,856.2    9,480.7     m.1
Sib-Total R.MS                    2,412.9 43,937.4 56377.6 s9Y,93.5 71,690.6 65959.6   300,170.5  259014.2
D. UTTA PRADH
1. RnATIE AD HWINEWJT               - 44,21.4 76,200.3 100I009.8 12"8991.3 13S,434.7  485,457.5  40,454.8
2. PIISICAL TETS              55,125.3 86,352.7 110,189.0 120,661.6 123,42B.2 94,091.6  S99,947.5  49,154.0
3. ESEARCH                           -  1,441.1  1,647.8  1,118.4  1,120.4  1,124.6    6,452.3    537.7
4. EXTEIISIUN                        -  3,067.9  7,265.1 11,507.1 17,179.2  19,977.3    57r996.6   4,833.1
s. TRAININ                           - 14,624.2 324010.6 29,294.0  7P933.6  7,906.7    91,669.1  7,639.1
6. PLM                               -    437.1   948.6   651.8   651.8   651.8    3,341.2    278.4
7. 1ET(I  AND EULUTINu               -  1,627.7  19144.5  191445    ,196.6  1.6.6    6,309.8    525.8
Sub-Toaul UTTE PlUM              55,125.3 152,3722 229,404.8 26463879l 28,o501.2 259i283.3 1,241,073.9 103,422.8
E. CENIIAL SUPPORT IFFICE              - 13,949.3  9,060.7  8,469.0  8,469.0  8,469.0   48,437.0   4,036.4
Total DASEL  COSTS                117,194.1 455,336.6 569,482.9 630D311.4 682.422.1 S7,211.9 3,041,948.9 253e495.7
Phlsical Cantinencies           5859.2 21,426.5 27,138.1 29,318.4 29,877.8 24,089.7   137,709.7  11,475.8
Price Conti-mries                     - 20,010.6 77,65.9 149P190.7 235,362.0 271,266.0   753,488.2  62,790.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                23,043.3 496,M.7 674,280.0 909,920.4 947,661.9 892,567.6 3.9339146.9 327,762.2
=-- -           , -=-===                               _-_cf__
Tans                                  - 139972.9  9i704.3  9,720.4  9,593.5  49150.3    47,141.4   3,928.5
Foreimn Exchwne                  1,194.B 14,670.7 15,S52.9  16,427.5 16,84.2 12,342.5   77,034.4   6,419.5
D w 17  985 11:42



-67-                                                       ANNM=  4
Page 2 of 2
DM
*TUK NEIl FO139 ROAD
Prg.ot    _      u Tar
Totas  hlli  CwAkmnta,                                    Ttas I.tlulii Cmtinmviu
IDlEF  'NO0)                                                [sa  em)
0       1        2        3       4        5       otal       0       1       2       3       4      5     Total
A.  L1ito
1. DhUZTIIE iMe HIIUIT              - 21,147.3 214.50.  2494.6 2.140.6 24M.32     11935.8          - 1w762.3 l,z.1  275A.4  ,2U1.7 2,e74*4  9,946
2. 711151UL TISIE             44.39.7 137,0.7 197,497.1 215,63. 27537.0 23703.0 1no   97M.7  3.697.5 MINA4 1M.6 .1 19p5.7 23.23.9 19,75.1 95914.
3. MOOI                             -  I1.113.6  t02.0  M9.        9.7  I1,1.4    5.05             -    93.2    4.3    1.1    7.0   N4,3   420.
4. EXIIEDN                          -    678.7    62.3   63.2   744.2    37.4    3s51.J            -    564    12.7   574    42.0    6J    26.0
5. T_ll                             -  1,45.4  13OJ3  1,920.5  1M7e.   1.2.5    3,926.5            -   12.0   152-5  15.7   14.2  154.4   743.9
6. hAEl                             -    293.3   375.7   407.6   457.4   496.3    203.             -    24.9   313    34.0   31.1   41.4    16...
7. NEI        Mg EW.DTI            -  1,69.4   97.5  16.6  Ir51.7  1,33.l   6,49.3                -   121.6    3.5    3       9.0   114.0   501.6
Wi-Total 111.367                 44,317.7 194.414.3224,176.4 2fi4e5,1 310,907.4 2U .501.4 1.296.494.3  3.6n7.s 15.287.9 3 ,431.4 22,123.8 3,909.0 22291.3 It 1.361.2
1. _IW TII WS IWEIT                 - 27316.0 30,778.1 2.7.4 34.S.7  33217.6  l3bU.B               - 2d274.3 2M564.  2,34.J 2,87.9 3W,14.3 1320.6
2. MUSICI TUSETS              13,2s3.  47,B76.4 U1zW    76t7232 93,': *        . 1   5464  35J53  15214-  3 SW.7 5.v5 6393.6 7 .6 5,L67.9 30,433.B
3. 0E91O                            -  1.541.2  lip?.6  21424.  l.076A   1267.2    7107.4          -   134    9-0  173-6    3.7  105.6   5W2.3
4. UEMIN                            -    976.3  1.v3J   7M6  1,41.0    04.5   5,567.2              -    3A.4    #.J    65.1     4      75.4   463.9
5. Tll3IC                           -  1W740.3  3.36.3  3,02.4  3.245J.  34.3    15.4.5            -   14.7   33.9  257.7   270.5  236.5  1435.3
6. NOUN=  US MM                     -  49042.6  3P167.2  6,421.6  3WSW7  3.962   2h4.3             -   36.9   263.9  35.1   271.4  299.7  1,707.0
WSb-Totl HINLW ?RUM              1b33.5 3, 513.3 11.0l7 116P18 176.7 15v53  52,91.1  1..5 6959.35 3424.8 9,734.1 1t,471.5 T9.0  47,*43.0
C. mEll
1. lUME AN  TMIBU                   - 13,292.1 16,69.  156971.7 17.1.7 21.47.0   3954.             - 1952.  l30.9 1s331.  1,429.3 1,707.3  79462.0
2. ,HISCE. Th5                 2,S33.5 :0.2e8.7 43,349.4 547.7 75P547.9 70,5.9  26U217.1   211.1 143.1 31A2.4 4s54.6 6,235.7 53f6.7 22190.6
3. IENS                             -    633.7   450.0 e     .6   532.4   577.6   2t794.3          -    57.0   37.5   45.    44.4   43.1   232.9
4. BE1U                             -  2.42.7  2.51.5  2w035.2  2.303.7  249.4   12t093Z           -   202.4   231.0  167.1   192.0   2J.3  1,007.8
S. ITD=                             -  4314.0  1,074J3  1217.0  193W.2  141.0   9,354.4            -   39.5   39.5  101.4   109.    19.2   779.5
6.- NIIDlIS MS ETUJTIE              -  2r195.6  2.324.!  2W293.0  2,407.   2n.62   U.P0.1          -   130   177.0  191-1   207.3   224.9       3.3
STut1 311                        2,533.5 4.113.5 66.55.3 765Z5.2  99342.7 *,311  3N9187.3   211.1 4*RZ  M55654 6,177.1 827.6 3234.4 32 .1
3. nZMM"
1. a   XZTi1  Se  AMI               - 48.10.7 834.6 22,47.5 176.53.1 200,787.1  M4d.1?0.0         - 42.6 7,40W.9 20,MM.  42.710  16Pn2.3 93,432.5
2. NISIEN  TTS                57,31.6 94,511.1 131p27.5 143.9 v121l. 1429672-   753383.7  498.5 7h3O5.9  1        3 12952.6 14,375.2 11.94  62zB.8
3. OESE                             -  1,545.7  1,937.4  1.403.5  152.6  16.4    8.073.7           -   12.3   11.5   17.0   127.1  13.5    72.8
4. EnTEN5I                          -  3427.2  3,740.4 1503.  24291.1  39726.1  30.1t              -   2773   723.A  l32.6 2,024.3 2b393.8  666.4
S. 13*35                            - 15,924.6 39075.7  3M4.1  10,6.3 U1..   11f347.               - 19327.1 3.63 34234.5    3.0   99.7  9,615.6
6s. KAMM                            -    464.3  1.498.9   811.7    3.7   M55.5   4,21..            -    33.7   91.6   67.6   73.4   79.6   351.0
7. NiiTiIR IID EWLVUIIITDI          -  1,736.6  1.311.5  1,429   1,6U.7  1754.0    784.7         -   144.7  10.3   8.6    134.7  146.2   653.5
S9b-TotA U1T1 hR                 57lK1.6 16O020.3 21136.1 33h316 314 ,243.0 309.193.8 161 61   4W4 M3O5.1 22.t57.2 23,231.3 32935L6 32,349.5 34J3.6
E. AIIIRI 91931 wFFI                  - 15.070.3 10,575.2 1040.7 1151U.1 12A.4     60.25.8           - 1.25.5    U 1.3    34.1   99.3  I.30.7  5,023
TOWl FUIECT C153                 123l043.3 496,773.7 674,230.0 33,0.  47,.? 30,567.6 3.1416.  10,3. 41N,17.8 M        .0 67401.7 79,7.3 739547.3 327.762.2
Na, 17. 135 11:4



-68-
Annex 5
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ M)
Calendar                                              Disbursement -
Year          Quarter   IDA FY   Quarter   For Quarter   Cumulative    Z
IDA USAID
19P5               I        FY85     III        -        -          -        -
II                  IV
III       FY86        I        -        -         -
IV                  II       6.2     3.1        9.3       3.8Z
1986               I        FY86     III      10.9      5.2       25.4     10.4Z
II                  IV
III       FY87        I      10.9     5.3       41.6      17.0%
IV                  II
1987               I        FY87     III      15.0      7.1      63.7      26.0%
II                  IV
III       FY88        I      15.0     7.1       85.8      35.0%
IV                  II
1988               I        FY88     III      17.4      8.2     111.4      45.5%
II                  IV
III       FY89        1      17.4     8.2      137.0      55.9%
IV                  II
1989               I        FY89     III      19.6      9.6     166.2      67.8%
II                  IV
III       FY90        I      19.6     9.6      195.4      79.8%
IV                  II
1990               I        FY90     III      16.5      8.3     220.2      89.9%
II                  IV
III       FY91        I      16.5     8.3      245.0    100.OZ
IV                  II
Total                                        165.0    80.0      245.0    100%
=m       ==:   g   c         ===



,,,                      996I      Lo6s1     9961      SOB!      1961      9s61      Ze61      1961      0961
4-i                  I       I   S   'I   S    I            I   S    I              S I       I        S I       I
N          ~0                                                                                              .
*  o                                                                                            S
No                                                                              -S                          0
0                                                                                               0
C-,
/                            ~~~~z
-                            /o        -
I3AVMHAO OIUOdU--
3LIJOM iuiN3Iaa9[
311IO LNIMAO         -U
SZ6W-4UIS390J l GJIOOS o'n-ul-NIN



I NO I R-GUJURAT COMM r FORCSTRY-CR961
DISOURSEtI? PlWILC
MIYL fWsm
~~-  MIDIO|AV    I0 
-.  -."m                    I
o   __                               _  _.               ._._..                            -
*0
o)                                                                                           0
oi                                                                                           0
z
LI                       /    /                                                              (
C-,       X ,  ,/                                            ,
0-o                         */0
o                                                                  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
C',0
108 3     193    l   3    198              3     1  3ga     13          3    1   39
1981     1982      1983      1984     1985      1986      1987     1988      1989



INDIA-wa SOCIAL FORfSTRY-CRtt78
DIJE34T PROFLE
~~~~ASPD.A V(R A4E
.     --  AF* A~ .
-~~.                                                                          ..0 
0                                                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-                                                                                    --
*                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C3
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1   /"                                                                       F~~~~~~~~
L7 q  ~ ~~~/     / /   /
/                  //
1982    1983      94    2~          1928 2   4    2   4   2   1   2   4           2                  0n
1982!   1983     1984     1985      1983f    1987     1988      1989     1990    1991



'DIA-H< SOCIAL rORFSTRY-CRM86
M~lW. .  _
-  AWDAL  A
-~~-~~C    CTUL
Cs -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
to
CD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~C O  M 
0~~~~~
8                                  ~~~~~~~/ (0'1
o-~~~~~~~  /  //                       '                                              _ 
2    4   2   4   2    4   2    4   2   4   2    4   2   4   2   4   2   4   2                                  0 e
1923    1984      1925      198f6     18 7      1988      1969      1990     1991    1992



131.9W P         IMUlLI4  U IIZ               mw
* 7m
1      2        3       4       5               I 7,    I       I      1t      is      12      IS       14      13      3S      17      a       17      20      21       2      23
cm
ILst CS11   1425    22 329    31703  2U15m    1421                             917   I41   22744  inn7   32992    1m    31   139    133   u2    13"    a2    1                          122    1334     3262   L2U
4I/l30    rROM  W1T           124      9 M    11239W7   3     9724   NMI               I32 7I     4      Y63    403    431    43        42      a        V2       32    1792    3791    371        1 373   I1
Mmm    CUt.           IU         w    3429    em      49354     7  74          SIM n    4 iU l i3a       97     93      am      mm      gm      gm      an        11   70     XN          NE     74      7023      3
mI "um  m                     mm1 340  2114 230  z4   zm2   4tJ1  I    24mz5 2w4  m2u  2n71    7   21n  23m  m33  3a   St3  3923  3     3is  3U   3
TOTAL MP CI cm              1346220  31 I 542321 59          4    35        S U mm           MM   2           545   461W    Am87   405    A             1l     =03     2Dl    2221         0   20x      7WI 11   234
Wlls
hLmT KNEIIS                       -    [IV  2242    4349           16416   173            5 M 4999   31244A  5415  MM233blat  A75  34U  441   4354   47s    4749    4054M  31 121     M2
HllW  9 3  RWIT;llS               -    924    74      130    240       301   4332   446   732 21         4  2M3131    MM2  72342 311433 344  IISI 934   9M3   "MU                          9  993 9 M"  31427  3176
R3135101 0WIS                    -      11      74     157    2011   014    32314   42513    S32    11421   93?7  117M   1S3S3  SW"   117413   PM5            MM 1Ill54l  13M     312     240    536   93
111T0 MES3   KN3IIS               -       -    329     357  321049  I21S    16110  41    4ns    MC  434415  473721  4                     MY16   212 343     4 4  43_4  476  431   621    3 MIS   4D3      M2  2M
TOTAL PnEC  011TS                 -    1W    12 2190   244341 3P2M   43140   94999                   14U3 3479544 142437144    3 411741   141  13 2  1         29157123470 3 2  230164 [               ID   1952
311 2951215
_11W SCUL Fl3l1
24     a3       24      27      20     219       0      31
____________________                                                                           3131932          =2144.5.732.1111-   562 -14.741
cum  1TU9W      2.112.94.2.24.473               230.171
1231 331s                     1316    22324   22421   324    1326  1UX    122    22M
uTlr       s IIIST            3132  392        3121   313    313l   3912    3912^   313                             Unnn   I
'FMK  Flow    OLs              37W1  A       S 37"      17v    3M      3I   D 91    393                                                        NV I In                                  w r                  i
SLOSR    CIISTS57m           7oze    7tl2S 71121c             mis    7m       7m                                                                                              0 3
uric VW"    tgm                        Ml                MI                                                         ltZ           191 TE     141 3m  JI3.44 37U
TWAL PROIECF CSTS    2       U 55   2Q NM                 21211  21=      2131    2KN    23                                                                                             o   ^   2
lmm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I va1 *e gm a aO111^ e ME IF
ULJT KNEFITS                 2310   541326  411237 414244 4    336 4 V 343    U9   324913
NMll  9SI0          mIi     114041121297  1211L270 1523112 3411412 14733   24i
iA4lN     E   M2131          I449  I22             162 24  343   1214    51419   105                  1M   umIe                                                        4203                   399.U             2I.1U
uTTE rum  m         s         44077  9743*  442  4742  433302  499 9         2253     24
-_ OK   I3*1931                LUa     3TM          IlE642.2              134.13            23.3
TOTAL .I9      35IT1S       22421 2341713 2341  z90     24217023 z7     1 W               9
IET ElEtS MA IMTV T   221303 2= mD 02DX 230115 2W  MM 192   31                                                     TEST OKE 1clUI                 r  2a                DARIS.0                 rWn              2S.It
3113437315~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1W  M4MI                                                                             P2
~;nI t0- Ll 21.3  C1 J U0                                                                                                                       31   21              n5m.6                  150.7            23.91



-74-
t                                                                                                       *r
3       2        2        4       3        A        7        9       9       is       11      12       13       14       15        Is     I7       3 a      9   21
will
I. unm MP
im imi   cm    /a                                       I1      1       1447    1417   130          I    W      -       -        -        -                             -                 -        - -   -   -  
IT1r     .4      2   41L 0  lb                             -    7         I49      4       10       01         U In    in       to       in       IN      to               10 I     46        -        -       -        -        -
T3111 1011f         1 k                                     -    uo       i 7  J                      77      2  J7  25        237      27       21      2D7      2        2 D   27           -        -        -                -
13111.                                                  312              2 3              J2          2       W4      in       23       26       26      3        23       m        2         -        -        -       -        -
31. ra  FnUT  Pr          A     IT
ECOM     C w TOi       ITm n                           443    SUN    a2         6m    6           2        14          0    DI    UN              -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -
111. u0T0N1 IEM  n                 _u 2_tE  01c
n2mxmm.am Kml403                                         162  4940  no                     1633  19433  dm13  soN  5=   UN   UN   3311NW SIN UN 13   U                                               331  SW2  Wm   Wm2
111IT INI             21131                             2475      44    IU        URI   2156   1772    SUN           7171    231        70       70       0 M  M  M  m     7                         M  700           7 M      720
an11111111       0  mom                                 21l   11366,  1134   L36    L34    3256    UV                24       14       140      140     140      144      34N     3410    140       140    1440O  1440   1341
CSnTI wE rIi uk                                          4w 1274217346 SW am   49   19 221 4214  210  21021 n    210  2140214.210 214   nW 2140 210
4mL114D l    RIM                                        MO  142  1942  Z6  2623  396  13116  263  23    -    El3  0I0    a                                                         01 m     n   ml   21   El   el
T1113, KW UN                                            79 Z39   230    M         MM    394        26        036    4173                -       321     NU          3      1      2        210      211              23M       2J0
111F            HIJa I R2TW                              91    5112        37    2942       113    96411   6D    l         l 21         30   Jl          25       23 1      11     230        0      230      350     350      330
S9010L                                                 23412      1      94     1 9   119927   9M    S 12 =         32197   2         3   13       1    362 I    32 I     312I     132  13626   1326   1332    1362    1312
TOTAL FIMT aw                                          73151                     MM 111 3  2139      63    6117   376m       21   L"    191   311   131   1193                            36       1366 1162    32    3326 1
1. FM  F11 1  n3n3
EEimic  41KM Tn FM-3             3                                  -        -        - .   7404D   74     70      276430            IWO 6    27400    1641            1 00   76         27611  37640   1 2 n   R64   21
13. PWUITOTI41 71
RW4TE 10I0 ._    RIIJ                                       -      74      323     261        9      323      34  J  1562             4626   S1W    313)l   A1M           49      M1      M9       36724   209I   37          AM
cim!!?              R M 3                                  -        4            4     12 4O                  303    1       4720    424   645         40M     41132   3002   3S0         2416       904   340      3640       722
1OITT in             1_111 0 3- -                                   -              -    40    0  35    370  3112 3WM   SN    M7   4M  34  M9   SW    M4   07   4944   W7    07
C_ATM 11F1 101111 _ll                                      -   in  0               m   m    23    3I  4256  4726  36  MU   on   5423603403195N03N014
bA0I3T61  W              riN                               -      321      262     430    WM    1133   176   2442            11137   34       910315   9M52  3      6  341    10          MM    4014    34 11    3643Y  36
S13R9 .       1   OIEW   M                 _               -       24  4S           21      3        760      10     30    2470    2sz20   21549             3 694    241   1460    3452   14604    413    132                2M7
Wm         11111111 R2_T1W                                 -        -        -        -     176   124   ISI          MM774   390      114    13132   14776   1164    23117   2124   1              24   12          10944  I3H
3 I331                                                      -     446    1001    264       90   15IN    MO                  221        0 211     31237  22             2293  26366342  1956410"                     I3957    123492
111. PAL Sl0W KIC 1U0
040                                                        -      SO      1IM     130      2122       40    204      26       26640    2640    2640    2640   2364                                                   2640    2640
aE6l0l1                                                    -       D       30      In       233      264      264     264      264      264      24      264      264      264     24       2        2       264      7a      264
103.                                                        -     33  1 362    3762    232    29             2944    29m      2904    20       290     4    290 4    204    204    29      2944    294    2404 204    294 214
TOT  .3137m1                                               -    1071    2142    4PT9   10913  364006  17310924645  49996  332406  340333  IUNI  407403  27645303347  404036  423141  470076  474964  407376
IET                                                     -71419
SUtT  IETom                                            712 -14    -10tM -1"   -l12lN 2211 Im   WM  471" 4                                         W   S"MM27W                      M4W"                       O4]4 29



-75-
10OLL                                                                              ANNEX G(M)
r 2.r*f 3
001141"   WUL Paf1U    9904001-4131T
C5Y- L    iIT  MEl CUR AILTVII AM  S111?TYnnm   TWit
21      22       23      24       3        20      27      .3       29 3n  n 
csio
I. WmE mUT
uIMINT 01E    i.                                           -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -
STOI    ItMICI be3 610311                                  -       -        -       -        -            -        -       -        -  lb
01513 sainui cur IC                                                -        -       -        -       --                        -        -        -
133016                                                     -       --                        _                  _ _                       _ _ - - 
11. F* l   OrIw  T PUCES CMu
EC    IC CDST  D                                           -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -
I11. PLASTATIEI IIIUEETIOII U             0  0SI
uIC WIITa  PEzwE                                       53    WIN  s               Wi1   l3   533  SM DJm  DJ1 Dll   mo11
CIUmITT _UD1S MINT*E                                    700      700      70      70 0             700        0     7        70       70      70
cWijTr  E0ITs IN16FED                                  1400    1400    1400    314        1400   1340    1400    1400    1400    140    1400
I0U1rI  DUEFOI R LD                                    2100    20 21100    2100    230            2110    2100    210       213      2100    210
NEWILUI0TED IlEl03CFKETS                                at1    a51       Ol       111       51     0151     S51     ml       1at      in      1
S5P F  AT3                                              Me 7            23    2           23               21  J                     2 11  2m
.a4A FUIEID P3.UIT                                      350      350      230      10      310     30       350     no       I10N      A0     350
DTOT6.                                               13620   13406   1302     1340   13342     13020   13060   13020   13342     1U2A   134
TMTAL P911 LST                                        13426   1302      30      333 1                      3020 1UX336 1420   1334         13420
wTlrS
1. FM  FC7DE11  REFIlS
03hfhC KEW FM FIM FRST                                70  760  7  0274 A27M 40274 24  27    70I0
11. PLETATIE  EIEFITS
...1 1W5II11           ID        X                    2042   27I93   29510   34331   32113    5450   2357   23    34257    MM    3514
uiiv M           AIS IFE1                         32696   33312   347M2  3J22   i            1590   304    39040    90    39104   3901
rIITS MIIIKOTINTED                                   49444   50740   50740   49444 S0740   5070   434   540    NO    424                      259
aNT' TMIE FINDE  tLIS.                                 50o  s0          20       So      10       5o0    5So    5N          5s      SW    2ur
OILINTSD I          KO   FIKITS                       040    U013   9154   910          923    3599    34032    4W         403    35072   77442
SW11    AINTATIS 31943 I0 WAK                         11922   12210   12JJ   13470   14410    505    1941    1             1902   1912  5M
Fa11       IE  nAuTT3 =72   1I300    157                                        179     117    1305    13220   1432   1            14212    34
UtOt6                                                22576  221     24612   2472 2024     13113 1 312t   20772  1929    2409
Ill. FIE !WJIN6 IIICE F UfS
DIU                                                    240    240       2040    2041    200    240    264          24       20    24         2640
CMyz.                                                   264      204     2        264     204    '244      264      364      24      264      264
31016                                                  290      290     20       290     20       290     2        290      290     290      2904
TOTL  WITS                                           305      30     3210532  5310   541310  4103  464364  473310   20743U  200   24293
MET 5301!
IUJ.       NE   ISIT                                 291053  21210   M0   21440  523190  3902  4507     45907   VA                 1720  2297
/a  lEs  FIEL SAINl3 MV1C
lb  STAFF S     IES  _S 6111017 ATI1110 T0 NIFUP NM6 101 I  TE. STAF F                 411iA   MN SIm            N   E  W    10111 0       10U2 9 EIEN1SI3   SIB !t 1S*11     U   ELL 1  IN NIIS 7 Tl 10.
Ic  0511   iE           TS CNNlTTRM1    TO 0P KIM1 2I00  OF TOTE. FM  5321T  CUTM  IIN WM t 1T  A 0 UM   4( 1193113 010 EXIENI D             KED ET C0 11011 VWIS 7 TO 10.
Sr1 1.  0I11  31l43



-76-                                ANEX 6(ii)
Page 3 of 3
INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT-GUJARAT
Econobaic Cost and Benefit Streams
Internal Rates of Return of Net Stream
NBEIi6                  26.002
SiITCHIN6 WLUS AT 122
APPRAISAL    SUITCHIiG    PERCE1TAGE
STREAM                 VALUE        UAUJE        CIW
BTOT6          178167O.21   729,417.47        -5s.06Z
ClTS              729P417.47 1s781U670.21       144.26Z
WPU e 122 = 1Y052,252.7
IN = 26
SENSTIVM  TESTS
NV   AS A Z
PRESENT             OF PRESENT          INITERNAL
VALUE AT OCC        CSTS AT OCC         R iTE OF
TEST CASSB   TEST CASE VARIATIoNs                OF 12.OO2           OF 12.001           RETU
BASE CASE                                           1052252.7               144.3X           26.0Z
TEST CASE  1 BTOT              LAS    1 YEARS        861359.5              118.1Z            22.31
TEST CASE  2  TM               DOW 20Z               695918.7               95.42            22.oz
TEST CASE  3  CTOT5            UP  20Z               906369.2               103.52           22.7Z
TEST CASE  4  CTOT6            UP   20Z
BTOT6            DON 202               5035.2                 62.92           19.OZ



mitoft imiAL rsttyll Cut-ImIII "mIWH
_ ....   100504.   _UOThI I....  .   __...  . ....... .  .
CO3-rWIT mmN CAN MW.713 An SIWITsYITY rrn7
......... . ............. _._ ...... .. _._ ...
3 000
1         2           3          4          5          &         7         3         9         10         It         12         13         14
..... ....._.....wb
lIAIIsTr   COUT /8                                            4410.00  17915.00   21013.0W   206.000  21935000  5473s000              -                    *-                    *          *
STifF rkmikI a3 S MMU          b                                     -  10094,00   1231.000  IUWs57.W   1441.000     545,0    395.W    391.0,00   39lo   m."o               3100      391,000    395,000    39m."0
OTtOl EIT   cerST I                                                      22*44.c0 2o 5s000   2374.00o   3211.000   3565.000   1004.00   10s.oo0   1oo0o00       loo0.oo    1ooo       100.000    100.00    10"0
._ _ __ _~~~~~~~~~ .  _.__ ................... .......... ___ ..       -. .          ...._ ....._ ........ . _ _     .  
UOTL                                                          4410.000  P7M.000  m171000   M41.e000  4I27.0eo   34904.000   4t. 000   491,000   495.000              4,5.0i 45.000    491,000   495oO0    1400
tI. FW F TI  rMOn=s CT
.... ..   ....... ._.
ECm IC CMT mTO Pucm-S rosWTR  me rw    1oks                             1113*.000  isoo 0      moo.eee  2m225.000  24.000  120.000  So.oo0  110.0W0   1330.0W              700.000
1. P1.MWTATII   I TII         An M5NICIWU COST
990l0t1  nIVASU 9       9                                      194700   295v550   376145.0   469.60    3194.00   450M0  1902600  14560o    M9.d00    3.000 m o    e        o       u. 000 3,0 39. o0 659l000
.W r    r3FMrTrY                                                35.       M.091    5            03%69      114.1      447.313   2763U  l5."0          94.3b53    74.45      74.415     74.4K      744K       74.
COIrUIr  WLM-SLV   1.,                                               -    n.see    v7o.o         413.no      67.700    715.550   si3.eeo    3.050    26.00       ?79.0      A00        63,o         300 6e uo0
amullS?  0011.HIWWO                                           6371.750  1573.500  19273io0     2249.500  25061,710  IO7300W  4462750  420s0  3031.0We 0.0                 200 252e0.            2 140W    23200
RI3LIUTATU KOEE  FUOSTS                                        706.5    1701.00    2173,500   237.500   3364.250   210.000   32,250  N5W250   3650              35o5o    351.400    3150.0W      31,0W      355
I3?yo0T                                                       6070,150   2062441 26020e90   31079.2U  35171.111  2097,011   U74            611.445  4427.311   30.255   3791.4s5   m S9145    m 4          sm    s
... .  ._ . . .@@ @    ........ ..... .. .... ..... .... .... .......... .. _X"     *..... .... .   ............ @* ...........__    .      ._ 
TO1  POJECT COST                                             12400.109  6136.,445  11396.99  90000,4 e    9723.010 37041.013 1M2il23  12239.41  7005.311  5UU255   4M624K5   43214s5   4W24K5  4202455 
1. rF   FmSTtY 1 wirs
.........C ... .. ..                                                              -          -          -                               -                   -    60W          0     3                0     7
EcISIic RETUl  rRcZr rrsrr*                                                     *          -            FW   F*Tk                                            louoeo co    eeoN   Xu160.00o UZZeeoo ?#"00eO
..... .....  BeS......... ..........  ..... .... . . ...... 9*  Z . .  .. ...... . .. .....__  .. ...... ... ....  ......  _"@ .........__ _ 
II* PS.NIAIIOU 51N19213
........ ......... ..  . .. e*e
P110ATE WASTMN  PLINT                                                           -   12&.0W    2770oWOO   4443.400   6273.4003275.2001424,0W  11515 200  5474.400  1117000 2268.40  260200  267.60
MW FW   TEESTh                                                       *          *    54.54S    173,455    36.727    549#.6       797455    36.7n7   130,o99   1719.273   2044.3l  34002   463.35   4195.200
UlUin MNLeOs-. V0W                                                                                          5 60.000eNe   297.0W   4UJ4O   67.     0 706000   1031.0   IeI57.0NO   219430   2664000   Ml7.70
CUISY    Ior TI-AIWI                                                                   O *  450.000   951290W   14752,o   20206.00 27321O 2u20oo  50163,0W   732.o0           .4ee.40  i2 620  55652.60 15493no
KIULSTATO  KH        I FElTS                                         -          *    450.0eo    9`00.00   550400    2ao.000  S4ooo0    3000.0e   10oo0.0    20o50.    2700.000   250sooo     2250,00   16500oW
... .. . _. .......                .- ......^ ......... ....ez e -*   _@ _-   ___ .X*- .... ... - _@
SITI.AL                                                              -          *  564.545  53033.255  25573.527  30201.211 3u2.255 41256.27 46517.0l   941.2n 125544.011 15004962 m12.45  19174.560
myI lit
'TOTAL NELMOD  MIlK  KYWM-11CSUII                                          924,539   1341,3A   27724410    V494.20   3l,49.0  499: 11499.300  3699.300   3499.30, 3699.00   3699300   149.300   3699,366
. ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                         .      .. .   .
TOTAL IWITI                                                               Mel * 4. 6e 76205  55605i.7    2463447  33900.51 4354154455 44.427 7026.0  2e39.s7  33u0.5 31s34                 2 n725.343m 43346
NT  IWI                                                                                                                     .                                                                                           o
HI lMW    915H  NET KWIT                                    -12480.109 -61262,441 -737,004 -7494.442 -74639)5 -5z40.500 24276.311 3IS.M   632 n,095  96311 X3                    4 52Mf7e.7e7 7222m9391 M5.
._ m*"  932411..g1.g  *11,11 1    hl1114181         U  U wI..               "bexam"  _ms"            _       ma_im     0.a_a



HATIOMU0     6XIfA  FOESTIY PIlW-HI4     M ESSH
.................................................
COST7-KNEFl7 PSE CAN AASIS MID 5(SIII55Y TIlT
............................ ................................. 
1s 000
..................................... .............................  ._ .. .._ ......................................... ..............................--------------------------------------.........    -...... __ - -- _-.........___   _..______
i5        1l          17          la         19         20         25           22          23          24          25           24          27
......... . ..........................................._.................... .  ................................. . ................  . ..... .  ...........................................................  .  ......... -  +  - -   ~~** -    _ 
COSTS
................
I6'ASTIINI COST /a
S'AIF SM.IEI M   MLL dES /b                                      391000           -          -           .          .          .           .
OTI. lER  lR   COST I/c                                         500.0
........................ .......... .......... ........ .... ...... ................. _..  ___.__........ .______,,,,_,_,,,,
SU.TOlTL                                                        49. NO
1. FIN frTar PIWm6 CSIT
EOO IC  Cs  OS 100   ...O  ...  
....... .. ..................................... .......... _      .......... _  ....- -                                     _      
Ill. PSNffATIM IElTfl NO MhITIDWCE COST
91TE   hU.SM  91C                                               159,000      1 ,        1900    611.000       119.00 01".0   119000 19.3119900.0  8100                   619i.0        19.00      119.000     319.000
MF  r    F3T3T                                                     4.4!      M4.        74.4!f    74.4!        74. 455    74.94!     74.454       74.045      74.4!5       74.455      74.455      74.455      1474.4
CUKIIITY w OS-SEf HELP  Im{ YAT-fwmN                             M3.om0      63.00       1.00       300         3.00      434000 U3.00 U3.00 U.000                         61.000      63000       63,0O       63.000
CM.hrT   WIL0TS-AIAWIEPfNl-4WWAW)                              25204000   220000  252000   2520s00   220.00O   2520.000   2520.000    2520.000    2020.000    2520.000    2020 0oo               2020.000    2020.000
4AILITATEO   EAID0 FO         I0 3                              310000    315,000    31500    315.000    315.000    315.000    315.000           3500        35000       315.000      315000      315500      3150000
~~~~~~~~~.                           __. _. __....__..... ._..    ...... __. _....___.___._
SWTDYAL                                                        37`915,455   379lt 554  37 35.4    37915.44!   3792.! 37455  I45   37915.4!3   37915.44!    3791.4!    379 379        3795. 4!    3791.43    3795.4!3
OTAL PMOCT COST                                                424535    3 455   391.,455   3791.4ss   3791.455   319.4!   379l.455    3791.455    3791.45    3791.455    3791.455   3795.453    m9.41
....... ....._ ..._" . ^-*---......... ....................-~  . _*@--._   .. ... ...... .. ................. w  ._-_
to FITIRSNYKEF
...._....... ..
s. ra ;oRsrsi wmnriS
ECOIC IETII Rll FOr        FONSTRY                           704000,0007 ?W0440.0704400.000  704400000 70400000007040 0.000704000.000  7114000   77300.000    700000  90400.000  meo o 92000.00010500.000
...... .......  .   _._........._ .. _._._...... _.__...........  ._........ _._ _-
11. PLMifAlrO  IW IIS
9ti301  WTANDPLWTIUS                                          2s5M.000  2716.000  29932o40  31244.000  32653.200  34157.440  37267.9o    377m5.O   32 o.0   3u412.120   3731,520   3h07.50   29194.70
6C1 FAM  FITuY                                                 4559,155   4793.39    54.25   5S.964   5734.2M5   612.n7   64n737455 03,                     709.32    757.3            H4.512    43.27    450.764
CeUUTV 0OLI-ELF HELP                                            10.960   36.300o  4133.600   4142.240   42.000   4909.00   5223.0    532.560    55.000    5765.20    651.50    6317.00 4ee                      33.2
Cwu IT   o OT- fUWEI                                         1537M2.000 1746o0 150356.200  124.40 5114"54.300 20I51.300 2249.so0  22420400  229003.200  235121200  231430.000  I48M.60 o                     Uo 520
IWISILTATU XUAMD  FM1T1                                        5700,0    3520.000   8570.000  12060.000  23700.000  14200,000  26050000   25900.000   20500,000   24200.000   2400.00    12200.0   l5t53.0o
SUITOTL                                                      1764,15 204.09 2M2146.455 23938664 250303.2! 246.oo0  20490.345  222n1.35  278.302  30M5.27   3037U.2  22015.7  25150.644
NET KEUll
TOTAL FUELI  SMYINE EIVlTS-KEFiTS                              3".300   39.300   3"9.00   3"9.30    3 .300    "9.300   3699300    3 .300    369. 30    399300    39.300 n3693                                369.30
orM  KEFITS                                                  8974441155  M19449 93S4.7s 547005.904    002,5! t49329.307 m919.445 10143?75435 1077047.442 514 65765 12194.9M  1216410.3W7 527n749.944
HINCW  9909 ES llt        5                                   911358.640 9243.5 932054J.3O  943294449 955211.100 95537.153 99439l5l 1010579,90 150732?,147 1144U7.122 121575.447 521261,33 1274951.4 
iaiauuaz,a 83315183 I8U3DI*33I IUIIUU*28 ,.,,,Uf ItUllUUIu IIS ,U                ,     ,aaala  ,,ss5 aagaisg,a   ,a,m  *33333a    m,,8



tnt'
MtltdBJ  02 IO 0U11 n     nCJIwt UDSUtL HaSut
on-amiv sat cass aLIsU An sunumn TUt
is 000
20          20           24           31
INTl P           CI/
! wS." $"I!A
3. flABr COST 
SlTr mal' s M L(~S n
aTrmUJIT CSm /c
M iAL                                                                    -- _- 'e                                                  to.l litn  of btum  of hi Sir,.
IT, r  rnmim mmax emn innmn
traci  wUT 10 flw - O  raitmi MS m ioZni
III.  CLMYAT     O 1`1M11I   91 FSITIaY Anr FM1016   am    ; a
111- Km4tFttl  IMUtlUl AN lItil  tl   r                                                                                                               WnelCm KID AT in
11100r1  WrrS    *wiin                                              1i.2o        1111.000     119.000      119.000
mI   rAIN fmaun                                                     14.02        70,01        73,055      740.02                                       699103        WITOIIM            ITU
wmarn  rOA-  MrU                               U63.00   63000   aiwo  U0ooo                                                     Umis   oe o                             maiH  am
INSTIy    1h5h111                                                  7270.00  7220.000  250000  2120.0m                                         nsn nhi _
uoiLii rnW  MANt  rmu3s                                             3113.000       5.000 e    15.004       315.000 1eorw                           2u321170.91   2101u217            46u.6
0IDl1L                                                             J33l.4d1     3303.42    INIASS    30.3453                     0l70w               3106.2,117 2172s170 3           647.n24
IOTAL 01         ?                       3t1 .14    3303,455   1791145-    371.42                                                ......
..... .  . ... _. __ . ..... . ..x ......                        W,eY   1
IN - l4sil
Nwrlls
1. rT30111 TESTS
3. FM  FSTOIY OWITS                                                                                                           ...sun.u s..n
r,ac  sums mii` n1  rF F sO tY                                  IOZO1ut1m   117u 400m000 12400000 27170000                                                                      9533                  W  NM I
..._._._  ... . ....  .... . ... ........                                                                       WUt A  Om            C0111 its  e r    off lrr
Irim? CAS  rTET I.E 5365N                           U 32.00  r              120 M1S KM
I. KtAFINKa  lts                                                                                                                 _
912001  VIMhUA    KM1M                                            29r.69. 2n 472.30    2M5.3032         4.164.00,           US lAM   "M111311.1                                                               47.18            341U
kw   tinEr       t VSIT                                            50410    103640    5131.224    6453.291
womitHy    SlSr*3   MH                                             413.630      4242,10      04070    4357,M Tooii Chu   I  61629                            LAI   IltEl            176U 56114              17.                32n1
dulnen S0T1-flEES                                                161601000   02344.200  170764.00  219149.000
RMIlIATOl 3 KOMI F01T1                                            115tv00,5    I"100000   1010.000   12000.000                ltETt C     I2 61019           -W 205                 1546303,9               47.11              20.91
0u1o01L                                                          723302.40   22732.o0   n          1   2s50117i              TEll 0S    3  CIOTIH             UP   201              19411.5                  2,n               31
NET IMI?                                                                                                                       1113 CASE 0   1 C10T1            UP    0
''' . ....                                                                                                                                  rw              W    got              1447733ln               1 -821-4l1
rlrAL fUI  SH11ZINS vIClsDl*IWts                                   U"l*JO          5U*300     S".34        Jl".50
101L MMIItI                                                     1335001,700 1441462.100 1477217.410 2134240.171
........ ....... ......_.....
MT1 Mell
Hi ;0  PaIA         Nr M efil                                   1212010.245 1391470.6445 14014912 260441,410
...   ........    ,, ,,,,,,,..,...
h    Ia UfEi FUL SHmImNS MYulII.
cb 0iA0 WAPl  AN1  1102S A I 0I?U              MISTn   10 nrP1 1 101 0o   0 IiCL  T OfN   0InAim 05a INs 31A41 3IAD*9002  4O 1      0       stuIm n I0A1110 11*91N 700l
/frll 3t0  1      N0 116                                             o                cro           y     to A           or   r tN OSr 1w                 css          7 rO n
....... . .... .  . ........... .. . ....... _._ ....... .... ................................. ....................................... ......... .



2626
TOO-K IT ME MgCM  A0T IO MOO SreIIIVITY TtiT
05 000
~~~~~. _ .......... __... _.__........._
I         2          j         4          5         6         7        I         9         It       11         12        1J         14
..... ....
1WISTW11 COI Is                                            2 oo 21927.000  I005.000 25.000  11171.0*   186*                                        *          *        -               -               -
STOIV MAINS aS AMIM6B /b                                         -4396,00    1614.000  2262.000  IW05.000  2448.90    934,000   914.000  934.000   934.0W0  934.0W    934.000    MAN00           934,400
Oam  NotT  coal IC                                               -   5512.00    u6e.0       07.000   2323.0o  2452.000   26u0e0  2o7o   26000    167.00.000 277.0 00w   261.000    261.
UToI0M                                                     JU380   2174.00  205.00  247M.00  25 .000  22n9.000  1200.000  12201.00    1201,            12:02.00    2 201,000  1200.000   0202,000  120000
121, 1t0 WlUl 010=  Cal
[tT I2Col t TO PtOI2S-2w         O  211 1  lOUN                       700.000    7,0       07se000    130,000
CC IC COOI eoT TO P     M-    F5T0Y W   FAN kOKOTS                   20.0*      1s 0,00.0  2Mn0.0*0 34070,000 342350  11270.0W0 69300,0   2590.0W    2 1715000*   90.0* 
110AL06-  2555000  29o0o  27us,eee  2300eee   321s,0  22270.0W   6934,0W   2190.0* 01o0.0*   92,*                                                                                 - 
III. ftMTATI00 2M N    Ad MIN EWTM   COSI
ro.        FM  raintn                                            -   14.500    07 .150  2643900   4120.00   M9ne   244.71    244,730  244750   2470   24lU75e   2465    246.750   24o?5"
ct uri   =ol-   64.940   275.120   3.30   4517.450   3 4.0*   054.100 nt                                                              7.500  5Wo0w     521.0*   s.0 *       12.00 525 .010   121.0
E2008L2TATO  KMEN  FrEaI                                              747.00  2070,20    5420.20    604.100  7642.440  4396.00  4396.00*  4306.000  4396.00*  MS96*    4396.000   416.6 00 46,004
mIOT  STrolWIT6TIO                                        1251.62    204.090   4127.10   5414.00   410610  45W7740             0 2  54U. 00.70  20.44   700.M *0 O    7e.00 00 .000   700.000    0.040
CA001S2  STIP  MOAII                                             -   250.273   537.120     701.12     wM         16.73   345,.40   M.47            0   222.640    23,N    m, e u2.640   MO6       Moto.6
PAILSIE STRIP fWTMIIO2                                                210.540    S7now    1401474   2040.640   205,490  1150.404  1014.100   916.0*    M0.00    90.0*    900.000,  '100.040    9.06*00
FLOCS        NOM MS    r     t 2 6                          M910    120720    136.710    157,720    271070    2l0.460 te  .ll0oe   20500   I0f.000    25.00*  105.0*    205.900    219.0*   120.0
MAL lIlAC? TOOT                                          1631.640 3429.100  48777,22  69093.90l  M376,9    71997048 21264,240 16177.210 11142.000   9973.00 92OLO    022.60    =.64    120,640
1.~~~ FAI  _M                                         .                                     _                     _     __
2(MaoC 1111111F  lflU  WoO   IowTIS  01C)OS                                                                              ?msoo3220   70   449.0*  6616.0     6616. Now 00661604*1 661.0    65.0    6160
Eccaaqc EUWNS IRE FME FSTR                                                            .                        2000.000 200.00414000.00 *2960*0*020*0*04900 r.0*   17240.0*4  9680.0*  240*0
SIOTtAL                                                                                                         3 2322.200232 262.10 026492.01 4.00 0  001 6*7 105.00  93um66 1230.6450        34.14.0*
1I PLANTATIN WIll
"KOlMI tF nPralTy                                                                 6.0*     24*0* -S400    6.00  2706.0   W 40   4674.0-   -123,0*  512340*  5123.04*  0490.0*  11274.410*
ToISOtt IM OTS           1rR                                     -          *       ,0*          *          -00 z t0.0t   292,00   344.00  72.* t    00 01 ut  000eee       960t0.   662,0    6704.t0*
r20LorTA KIVEA           Fati UM                                                  32. n* .20m04.* 4060 .om4                              0     0           0       i.      -30m    0000.0* 1te.   .   te
006I22  STOOP PLNtAITON20                                               2.400     1.0*       9,00    14.400    10.00   262.0   2620           6,0#194002664,2M00           399,0WAS*  74510*0  I96.0
CM~I2E STIP POAMITON20                                                            0.410      2.040      2.40      2.400    14.520   23.66     44,OO      MM0   004.221   92.64    1321.120   1456.0*
SAILSIM STRIP OWIATISI                                                             2.600     3.200      5.600     1,0*0   74.400   140.80*  240.400    340.0* 3.0* 3000     .No       2684.0*1  2624,0
FLrO   WR TL M* tAE EWI                                                 0.* N       .0 Il0   2400       3.200    *5.200  17.400   127.400   24.000    220.0*   210.00   1450.00  012.10*  1974.0
SUIOTALM                                                                3.200    15.200   1202620   2W046.9     4074.200  0442.720 21017.464 204133,6    167M.400 17704.320  23207.40  12649M42  6"9996.
III. FUEL 269203 EVICT 'WITS
------                                                                  -    .      ---- - - - - - - - -                                              ----- - - -                              "
TOTE  01721                                                             2. f24    13.480   257.2040   42.240   424.240  4222170  4212.100 12102.0 2042060 9342.160   2,270 4.0  234.260   42009.20 
NET 0(217IF
2A5T200 NET 21)172                                       -163.640 -3427099  -60703.143 -6816.671 -76073.003 -0749.420  9649.50  25M.z30 40039.040 9542.040 14507.960 201776.60  2W30.30  92444.04
11    n. 1a,1I-las ......t4. fl....n.n   fnlflolm.   Z41,.tte  mote  -..       t Jm.tItIlets     o -tte         .. at.et   -          .te 



MATIWI. MCKII'MF50    MOACT4tA*51
CIT-K IT UK  CAx AnLSi Ms  sE oI n  mu
is mo
..~~~~~~~. - . _...........  . ._ ._................ .  .............. ...... ..... _--._....... ......._. .
is       I6        J7         23         I          20        21        22       2n          24        25         26         27         23
._. . ^  .......... .. . ....... .............. .................. ....... ...... .. ...........___ .___e    . _.
COIST
1. nonU tt
...............
STAF MLAI    NO ALL& n/b                                      934.000                                                   -          -        -         -          -          *          -
OtlI KOfft   Coit /c                                          20.000                   -          -          .                     .        .         .          .          .
it. rw rFmsr rumt MIT
irwu       clt to n m   sm-                ) tur   -                -         -OIt      -               -                                         -         - -
IC1t         ToP                                                    -         -        -A-a                             -          -   ,.   -         -          -          -          -         -          -
III. PWtMI*t2 IM1tlft MS MIVNtWW MST
59 s rw  raFfm                                                2467W    2646710   24u.7s     246750    24654    24u75         241JW    2464Wn   246.7s      246u70    24601X    246W710    24674        246W7
m :    mlS                                                    sn5o50     Snow0   szooo    52s.0oo    s25,0e       525,wow    s2saeo   w2on0  s24-0eo    52-eo           U3.40    m 0    S-m  wo  s2ew
LTLTro1 KOUlEND rElTS                                        431000  4396.040  416.040   496.4040   4391.000   4296.000   4319.00   4396.000  4396.000   439000   03961.00IO  4396.649   43e 6400   4396.001
04*013 1it PP PWin6t40                                              1 0.tO0    o.00    7eo.eo     reo,ooo   7iwo  7ee,eoo    7eo,aoe   no,eeo   7ma,eo     7ooo    7em oa0     7e00,ee    7ma,eeo    m.ow
cAaOiKrn tuP PtAMttIU                                         M.6o  222  M.600a 2mao0   Mao                          ao ma 222.6 .0M600  MJQ4  moo,0   mooii  m2.66o  m.oM   ma
MILSKlJ STRIP 111t                                             m,ow  ma*o  ma e  ma^  m.ow  ma o  ma"  meo mae  amee mow  m,ow  mow"  m.a
FRr CTIt   AM  TM  rWiSTllt                                   105.000   10  00  1.000    105m00a    mo-ee         mow-b      mow        0.00   10  .0feo    1o,00    105.000  mas,oe  10,6oe00  ma5.0e  mow s0
lT01^ ""CY COST                                             10127t40   702Y.900   WIN^^0      7027.600    M7e.6-     7eW,^0e    MhA*0    702,0    7M2.^00    7027.4e    ?W2.&"     7t27-u      7/1-^00   7W2.Ho
.. _@@ - ........ _ ........ .....  ..   _    -     s     -     .........    .w    -    ^    -    @    .   ..   _*   ..... _ ......... _._ _o_. ......................... _ __ _ _.
xKrlTS
t. FAI .unt _.ITS
lCIIE1Sr -e -t1l --- - ---- - ----s,e                                                            e         .o      seo        -,o        .xu^eo             -,o         sut       ^w          Z          S
remtc MillS FVlI 110W(wiNl) mani                             6656.00 66.000 6516.ow  nU.oo  n.m00  aow0  nU.0  n&.ow0 "U.m0  nU.m    na.6   nm   6u.10  415.0401
CCUOIIC MIlETU lu rW  FAEt YRt FOoIoe260.000  2e0o0    260W oo woo   9120n 044  nw20ow000 741o,em  mo,ow  24mz m    24000.000  31 .0W   3000stoeo,te.000 n                                            2s4000
"TOTAL                                                      320U6.000 U3.OCO m.ex               0 0u4X  97056.000 09014W  31456W 266u.0W xueoaa   oa5.w  ae.eo  a".w   3m,e nm.m
21. PUitiOlCII K(f1T
inflow  FAI  MOImY                                          227340,ow 24m,ow0 4M.0W0  440W10    4770,00 53.000 5lW          133W00  i220.0w   14"0W   215174.,W   21730.046 247Y.W4   stow40  4oon.011
CSIMNIt WKITS                                                9616W0   9436.000  30M,00    3192W00   QUW44   oma1 200 6.006  2640W0  716204W     I9WOW     961106W   94m16W    sma,01  izoo
W2ILItAtO  K(6A631  FOJt LAN"                              4100.000 4160.0W  4014t40A   0000.00    300W4   0140,000   1114a4  6300,400 AW.040    4100,000  41600.006 41060S   1113044W  gW.00
00406K  MIP PLMFAtIU                                        8223,100  9407.00   219.34    1014.400  2113.200   1709W0   1045.140 6133,00  5741.200   699W    53Wim   210454W                974.200   324.w
CMKS2E STIP PLANTAION                                        374.900   441.540    3000       34.200    662.200    M7.140   302.200    WHO,   222,160    34512         2M4M3    w6.144    Will   603.0
20A1L0IK STIP PtANtAtIMN                                     221MW   2146.00   10,0W        2404004     500 210W  30         340W    340W0    H64.W1   2624W 4 8236W    2146.630    200sW              26WO
FLOM Cam     as tME WXM I                                      936.00 936W        96W00     134W0      172W0    220.W4    210.W0  2110.000  1612.W0   174.0           936W       936WO    "6"    124.W0
MIStS.                                                     34714.M30116606.74   M.40 15919. 50  2     037333414.100 20120219m 1903W01 2403.600 193M2760  73692,320  34714.M3  91932140  21690W1 260.01W
III. FUEL SAYIN NVIWE KVIlS
......._.__.__.  ...
MUIIttlln                                nl^,eeo  n^,ex  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~sasen,o    amwaseeo tSommoo  samaseee  -e,we s e,eeeee  wanesaso  s,ooessm                     .....e na,e  le,0    aee
IS0I42    llU I120                                            42,24,0    42.240    42,240    42,240   4332.2     1eteo "00 42.240  4224  2.4     4.40 4,2       40neee  42,240    42.2*t    42302W              ilj
ulLllanRunSlullM    ~      ~     ~    ~     22422.90910.901217,W       440204w 02.740we22so.4022190,W 20004,205070              90091W,OO   109.360 313.2 60622.5  iwm.me ItO 4X 0   3*,2
V    o     n     o     T     f mueot                                    n'aw n,w-,O                     I,W        2@0 2fOl5,011.0                          .O        Ste       Dx             ,       l
LstW    t 102                                              209234.42090477.110282.0  941.>se2401111.940 21U36.OW   9333.40430024033063.00s           o  97362.70 227190.4   23603.73  1027647203013.730
*a_.t. _fle........... __.__l .d__.l  .____t   _._lif  __lhf   -l                 _nS    _a            -      _ mm



RAIh?M"  IOIAL  MUOUI? UOJ SCY-JIj 34
c46-snuu ?       c us. CASE         atLleB A1  IusEITIYIU  lnn
. ................~~~~....... . .... _._ .. .........  . .  _. .......
29        10        I
...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ .....   .. _._ ....... . ................ _
1.       AI   1 C AN
MMIT USEW o it
SYVI ..  J2h .    S ..  ii ...
-  MD cLlii f t   h                                                              - 
ATlOTAL
rmic c To muam-     21n32 om                                           - mom
[eMIIC   OtT To PUIAOS           rXITil A6 rF         uTn
AMIAL  -T
11,  II.  Fii llWT l4T ll 21m   *6IOgTIMa IIetl                                                                            IAS*M12 1.21  @r 124if St 30 54l4
1 Kai rAm  rmITIi                                                246,70   24.71     246,750                                                        *'
cemarn mnt                                                       33,1   Wd." o,Mm
W UTOt II KINAKS rIi                                             w6.0" 04   6.01 1429.00
WMIX Ml? PmIIn 7i                                                          70W.00  70 40 n9.n0   5 11A In
CtlsK  ITewP MM rINZ m.60    10,64                                                      m,^ ,
Mlitmll  MITt lU hltelI                                         114.00    M t    "    O.Ittl
nm ova AS TU    N" r0.1"  45.0"e  in,oo                                                                                                         AFMIAL  0WICN10           FE1S
IT"M                   0lU.          Wl           GINI
uITAL PU.ET COTi                                                7076    976          97.00                                ;Tg,               W427.14,1   3717206,92        -42,58
WITSCTCttl                                                     nZ^ee 7n7,*e 7n7*                                          ;TCr1              U"7,2   07,447.0h               71.12
2.1. " rUElISTI  WmiTStl 1100
Tmi2c  l. Ntw   u  i               64FTSwr  WOW                 MUMw  we.04  Sd2.W"                                              *062
UW3  ETSI F." 7.6 FSTIT  96*4.._  26640.."   -  202T2... T . _  _ _
STITOIML                                                     203143.41  32656..0"U65.."                                                                                              V         
It. IWITIW   WiTS                                                                                                                                                  ANTOM U5    AT32a 7t[
nil,Ltat    nsi tm   W1611116                     9  0.141,           OF 0.0141            mm
0320.3741   FCIMIE                                             4770.400  51219.4    5224.000Tl  AS                        lS   U    02128V1.1                                       91.W35
CNMITY   KIm s                                                  1419.0W  26*404*" 1UN.0
1CUI2LITOT   RUNgD  7585130                                     55M00.."  1100.404  NW.."BUD                                                                        W I.                    13Il
44m1     ITUIP fANT6T241                                        2119..   1e4,6..  4475.4W
CAKI2N  5027? fMMAITO2                                           697,944   74.520    63.."0                 TEST cml  Igirt2                LAS    I TAS           246161.4               3.61             24.1
611 KtlO  11T  1 PCM1ATI                                                                                                                                                CCt."    3,10,1I 34I.4WT
W  WIc =   As TAM UE m        u                                  72oo0W   fim2.       woto                  TIP K0I A#          llTOI S     NO  241                 91172.4               U."              Ism
MT2Tu.                                                         17644.70  i44   21    434,4W                 1111 CM    3  TDTS              UP   2                 236719,                 0.71            143,
2ll.                                                             ute,ee2 SAY ING        ee WITS
C2EMTMIA                                                          42.240    42,200    42.24                  lI3T CASE 4  CtOTS             UP   242
lion             tam 291                  24m.9                 20.11           22.91
TIOTAL  W    ill2                                            12246.114 1 2419.364 215t.l44
..... _._._,.
tAl1T0U MT       IT                                          1142121214 44292.740  21129.044
~~~~~~~~~~~~._._....... __ ...._............................
/0  ITOI I   AIICI AD  ALL61  672 0t  TO VPt               I Ii 010  Or MTIL luFf  "ItsA MS U             I 2 a I 11  A151001  7   2         3oWl IIA WEs MS MiMal to 11     7 TO 25t
Ic  EMSC  XCINV4T COITS ATTIIWTII TO itP KING2502 19 TOTAL ItMI OCL,SMi    CUITS II ElMS I2126 MS20 IOU O 2F              62 O SIM C    KM T  COSTS IN 9164  7 TI 25.
Apr.  20. _95  19124



1M10016 SOCIAL FfET0T PROCT-ITTA PADIH
COST-KWIT UK CAM MALYSIS MD SEIISITS2TY TTIT
Rs 00
I          2          3          4          5         6         7          a         9        to        12        12        13        14        I5
COSTS
1. O*llf  Cm,
IMTIT CUT /a                                                  1935500   55731,00 X  119 0   97173.00   5411700  72341.00
STAFF SIES A   ML Cs h                                               -   1b16240o  38749.00   5150.00  71940   79459.00   5096.00   5096.00   504.00   5096.00   5096.00  5096.00   509i.00   5096.00 x           09.00
OTHER RE         COST /V                                             -    3110.00    534.00    7f,00   1519s0o   21131.0  1274U.00  12746.00  12744.00  12744.00  12746.00  12744.00  1274400  12744,00  12744.00
SUJTOTAL                                                      19355,00   70723.00  15007.00   57M22.00  171333,00 172931.00  7042.00  17842.00  17542.00  17542.00  17642.00  17142,00  17542,00  17042,0  57142.00
u. rP   FZSTR1 PROOUERS COT
ECUSIC CU  TO POOIl SM        P FSt6T AMS FAr   LOtS   23002.00   252.00   34202.00   36120.00   30.00  40040.00  23720.00   7W.00   2940.00   IM.00   106.00
I21. PWTATIE 2IYSTErn  NG MI2NTDN    CUT
AIEK SRlP    . WINDe                                            7144,20      5.44    1915.9    2213.0    3227.70   137490    564.          42.0      122.00     26,00    124.00    M226M      1226.00    124.00    124.0
ASISII   MTRIP  N. NNW                                          29316      473.97     652.32     125,2    2036.54    470,75    23.U        140.6      43.0      43,*        3.0      43.0      4o40      43,40     4n.0
11 FA   FCKSTRT                                                      -    2933,00    7112,00   IS2.00   194,1600  5u4oo   72.00   3554.00   1540.00   MM0   2540.o    540,o   150.40   2540.0    254t.o
CPMUITT IWY ULTS RAI O                                        I445.00   I7n2u00   192030    24147.00 o e    U47.00   S02.00   3313.00   2444.00          1960.00         M 1960   2 0    240.0   290.00   1960.00    9 16.00
1JJ. 3lN^ITIAT2                                                2036.00    15596.0    54.00    212.00    215,00   510,00   4i6.00    294.0            10.0       140,00    20,00      40.00   14.       240.00    240.00   u
10t41 STRIP   lT- 1WN                                          1416,20    1971.20   m2e5.50    2450.00       77.70    30.20    16.00        34.00     84.00 u 4.00          4.00     34.00     M."       5 44o 34
MILSIK  STRIP Olt WAES                                          364,45     427.54     425.74     371.35      In5.       9l22      42,91     59.60     19.60     290        196       29.40     I9.6      19        2 9.0
paTOyT.L                                                        52.92   2634        3275496   34277   37435.37  I26s%   12652.24   7020.21   3913,00   3913.00   3923.0    3913.00   3923.00 m330    132.00
TOAL PROCT CosT                                               6049.92  13402433  217043.94  23044,477  2443.37 232596.06  44213,24  32764,2   246950,0  23743,00  2273.00  21755.00  22755.00  2217.00  22755
KWlTS
la PFN FtSThT KElTS
_....._ ...._.__.._
ECO1IC  TETLM3 Fr1   Fr   FREST Y                                                                         1 -   -  * 24000.0 1202 ,00  1320,00. 33400,00 . e00 ,e 00 532000.x00400o00o  41220.40 424000.0140000.eo 26000o0
, @  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----- -                               - - - ---- -
55. PUNATION KIESITS
WAIE STRIP 14. W.WB                                                  -          -      240oo      u,x00       96.00   1024.     20.00   1944.00   1922,00   27600         93.N      9.00   29122.0   2024.0    300o
PAILSIE STRIP  N. WA                                                 -          -       9.60       21.60      34,00    31.0    403,20    465,60    527.20    454.0    340,0    439.20    544.00    49.20           5.0
SR     M  FOSTRY                                                     -          *          -     20.00         0.00    60.00  1200X00  21400o00  40000.00  397 v0.00    760.00  5004440  20 .0  4            0  44.00
CloJTIIT Tm0Ts mi S                                                  -          -    1200X00    216000    2x.00  37n0   29t1,00  22160.00   920.00   940.00  W60.0   3473u.0  29.00  17072.00  1749.00
JN  WAfITTISOd                                                       -          -       4,0         1960     624.0   226,U0   4447.20  71044.        4460e0  1125760  1245,00  1245.0  12245.0  12454,00  1224.00
ROSSIK  SIP WT.  N                                                   -          -      4.00       96.00      220.00   29400   2 .00    96.0          944.       41.00   2774.00    u.0e  1 .o    1292.0M    3e4.0
MILSlIE SIP  F.                                                      -          -      12.00      21.0        20,e0    3.60    29,20    225.60    154,o         22.u0    3.0    345.60    21.4          244,30    113200
MIOTAL                                                               -          -    IM4        2596,0    44.20  442u 7.0  50217.0  54        u20 e 62203   442.10  S5520   1720.00  4160  73692.0 7n7 63
TOTAL   ElTS                                                         -          -    IM.40    2596.00  12495,20 I577.64 52227.0 43            .20 455200.00 594s24  4U15,20 4n20, e49002649 23n92.eo 34sen i4 
.... .._@ .... .. _  * ._@" ...... . . .........._w ..........._@ . ......... ...... _....  _-___ ._ ___ 
YET WMEIT
UTTA  PRAXSH NET KIEFIT                                      -6049,91 -24424.33 -215745,54 -22797 -133.7 *60331.46 235004.34 40 2.9 4335050 57579M  43352.20 452195.30 49072,0 191937.00 323232.60
uagasss uafoasha .ahsga  ansass szssfhan a1n.... M             A       .. fDS11nI,fluffs.. n.inn. .n.s.                 a .... mfta     ,         fl



NAIIOIIF SCIAL FONItSY MCY-ITAI EHO
615 . 5M. .1h         UEUTMP61
COnT-WNbIT    E CAS U    ILSIS M   fNO 5M112 VII TEST
RS 000
. ._-._ .   ..  ......................_._.... _.___._,,,
16        17        i3        1i         20        21         22        23        24         25       2u         27         21        29        20
costs
.. -       -- i
lNVS1161i MST /a
STAFF SALAIES NO ALMLO3MCS /b                                                                                                        -         -         -          -         ---
am1  KECw  COST /C                                                                    -         -    -                    -            -       -         -          -         -         -                         -
II, rwrl FfRsTRY PROu        COSy
EClilC CST To 0    fm 1O FO1TR1 ANl FW               ROoTiS
____... . _._..... ._.__.   _ ......... ._........ .... . __ _._
111. PLAMTATIE IIPASTIINII AND MIIENTICE COST
nEK sTRIP    IU.O I12.00    12i.00    124.00    124.00    126.00    126.0                                                       126,00    12600    121.00    12I6      .00    126.00    124.-0 u        126.00    22l.0O
UILSIK STRIP KM. MANA                                             43.40      43.44     43.40     43.40      43.40     43.40     43,40      43,40     43.40      43,40     43.40     43.40      43.40     43.40     43,40
WM       FAM FosrY                                              l54.000   2540.00   1540.00   250,00   250.00   150.00   250.00   5540.00                     254.00    1540.0   250.00    150.00      1540.0    1540.00
CoWN1IY ?OLOTs MISE                                             2160.00   1,60,00   140.00   160.00   2160.0   1160.00   1960.00   1960.00   1960.00   1960.00   196.00   1960.00   194.00   1960.0   1960.0 e
AR61   WATJIO                                                    140.00 1OMO           140.00    140.00    240O      2          140.00    140.00               24O IZOO  I0.00    140.00  4OO  40.00    1400    140.0 so
RMIK STRIP SETs. UWNO                          u.o                           34.00     54o .0        OO 4    4,00     34.00     34.00                94.00 3    3      U4.00  u4.0o   54.00              34.e0      4.40
RAILlIK  STRIP KPT.                                               19.60      29.0      19.40     29.44      29.16     19.60     29.60      19.60     19.604    19.60      19.10     1960       29.60     19.60     19.44
113TOT1L                                                        3923,00   3923.00   3923.00   3913.00   3913.00   1913.00   3923.00   1913.00   3913,00   V392.0    9300   3913,00   3911.00   3913.00            911 M.00
1- 3-00- -~-30 -  -, -  -, -  - - - --
TOTAL PSO  CT COST                                                         3913.0   3923.00                    3913.00   393o.00   3123.90   1913.00   3923.00   3923.00   3923.90   3913.9"   3913tue            23i.00
._"-___...... _-. _.........__ _     _.........._ .   
MMVrIfIIERIE1fl
1.   SAFION NEJPITs
2.  PI.AIAT26   - (F2TS
01I62K  STRIP MN. NAM11320.00   1320.0e   2064.00   2064.00   2301,00   126U100   2114.00   IM,00   2024.00   2741.90   1372                                                      IM.0    13.00  2M24   24.0   276.00
tAILSIK  STRIP KM. MASEO                                         513.60    56000    646.40    712210    B45.60    523.60    566.40    660.30    736.30    1110.0    563.20    629.60           96.00    762.0    n.20
OM   MF   FORE51RY                                              u24,00  26344.00  2404.00  3N 34.00        04.0    624.00  2574400  22940.00  3m92.00   776.00   U10.00  162.0   224.00  3620.00  3U240.0
COUMI"T   V OTS RAIWED                                         44576.00  373 O  3236.00  21796.00  1769600  44576.00  383600  3200000  26348.00  1944.00  4592.00  3200.00  32480.00  1900.0  12940.00
6A1 PLNETATIWI                                                 12456.00  12456.00  12456,90  22456.00  1245.00  12456.00  22456.00  22456.00  2245.00  12245600  22456.00  12245.00  12456.00  12456.0   1245.00
OAIKE STRIP  nPT.  oWD                                          13720oo   1172,0    1122.00   112-.00    364,00   1766.00   2300.0o   1140.00   1156.00    400.00   1754.00   174.-00  1232.0e  1132.00    60oo.
1AIL5IK  STRIP SEPT. WAI&'ED                                     444,00    377.60    322.20    244.30    222.00    444,00    335.60    325.60    244.00    234.40    466.40    400,00    333.60    267.20    134,40 
WITOTAL                                                          0S.6o  7 5.60  7105.60  73805.60  7Z560  69649.60  70592.00  7153.40  M729.0  73419.20  M72.6o   2610 7u2061,6  n7m12                          71921.60
TOTAL  MEIIITS                                                445805.60 450.60 472305.60 4560560 6215-.60 4864-60 202592.00 207534.40 46676.30 597419.20 444241.60 4761.60 406061.60 4921.60 225921.60 
IET KEFMT
LUTiR PUXSH MET MEIT                                          4429.260 454M92.60 4672,60 4U 92.60 627192.60 41736.60 191679.00 2031U.40 4U963,00 59350.20 460329.60 47228.60 44461.60496006.60 212006.J0
mst.sorm  s  .mms 832238*8  #8*3*8*                 wtts.s _v*88*8  xznw"   .=3*               , ,,,,   ,*S* ,_**8                      m



K1s     ;  IAL 1eUZfl   nlJK-~     IUl
cuiI.azil MIDU cat hIhziI An ISUIKYIIT? TII?
II
curs
1. mm Ms]
IIruV     rwr   /
Tir           COTI   it S lb
11, 1F  W     Mol m   COST
ii. rui rwsiT tO  -           r ur               r
EIMOC COST1 TO  IElInS-AU  FOIEII II FoH   k01 
III, IATArIU Il       I AM MHIIMU 001
W1IS     MP MN. WNW                                      I22.00                               Mt    1   s  bu  s ht St
21,s1 1      XtINA. MMI                                   43.0                              __
r FM1 FUITRUT                                            140am                                                    24.9a
IMUIii tEl   SU  M                                      1964.44
AL= &MAT III                                             140.00
119  Mir WT. wis                                          u4,e                                                                                                                        u
LIUIK  M1P    IT NAM                                      19.60                                             MIThM  YAMi Al In
UIOI.                                    92.0_
UTOtVL                                                                                                                       31,eI
'--'-                                      ISk~~~mlL  fay"    lamll
tolL MGM  exiSTOIIP                                                                                       T        12I3X   IWT4          U11
wwirsST                                                                                                       111211w           l.1       -.
I. FM  "MM  IWUITI                                                                            CTIMII          l0.341U  l1iffb .3          126.12
UMMC NEW SS  r1 M  t110  1                                                              NWY I In   b,0:1iN.3
walm  nip MN. NNW                  2460.10               ~~~~~~~~~111111TT1T TOll
1.   v ka"r s mlwu"Ef                                                                                                                       wmw               UO
W01E~ 11191  MM                                                                       2st00
MILlIE 0111? 11  144140                  ~~~~11612.00                                                          FLCA s             o l   Om          AT1
ARM  FWTATIU                                           120"400                  rUT CsD    rTM cA        aIAm               & 12.oo           P 12.m0            1T11
mIll  Sill? lot. NNW                                   "0.00                                _ _ _ -                          _ _                          
UTDIAL                                                      M~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0A                              10124U 3      2.3           12        .01123
11101. . titl    S11.0
TM? "A   i 179W             LAI    I MM.1      811411.1             112.11         22.6
T01. NWIllUB                                                                   TM61A   2 I"                 inn m               M0.1 I31.21                        29.9
lei m    tilt SOI                                                                     Cm   3 CrOi             v   201             I50-.6              2.1: 2z20
yinrA m       v ii mui                                ay.ee                                                                 rmt               or ttou  w 
gyo Uftx4 tkwD lol              n          2            ,@    U        r        t t CM      COt      t      UTC M
3T10W          mm  M4"uw.4                       e      12.01         17.01
IN IM.W(2 002WR CMIS W FIJE 1II KVICO,
/C Vit 11.40i1CUT AM I   ITO   704KM    14 O 0 MA   1M   lIE? 5.11t1 MMAI                    1  ItMI 2 W         20t      6         I.         ZI.St                21-                |
Pi2 210. IMU  21109



-86-
Annex 7
INDIA
RATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Suusarl of Financial and Economic Prices
Financial Prices (Rs)       Conversion      Economic Prices (Rs)
Unit     UP  Raiasthan  Guiarat  BP        Factor   UP  Raiasthan  Guiarat  HP
Fuelvood                *t       500     200       200       -     0.8      400     160       160      -
-conifer              at        -        -        -      300     0.8        -       -         -    240
-broadleaf            at        -        -        -      400     0.8        -       -         -    320
Poles                   no        25      14        13       -     0.8       20    11.2      10.4      -
Small timber           cu m    1500      400        -        -     0.8    1200      320         -      -
Bamboo                  no        -        -        3        -     0.8        -       -       2.4      -
Leaf fodder             at         -       -        50     150     0.8        -       -        40    120
Grass                   at       100      50        50     250     0.8       80      40        40    200
Dry fodder grass        at         -       -       100       -     0.8        -       -        80      -
Steavoo4               cu a       -        -        -      400     0.8        -       -         -    320
Edible flower           mt     2000        -        -        -     0.8    1600        -         -      -
Fruit                   Mt      1000    1000      1000       -     0.8      800     800       800      -
Ber fruit               at        -        -     1500        -     0.8        -       -      1200      -
Neem seeds              mt        -        -     1000        -     0.8        -       -       800      -
Bidi leaves             mt        -        -     1000        -     0.8        -       -       800      -
Seed pods               mt        -      250        -        -     0.8        -     200         -      -
Fallen wood/lops        mt         -     200         -       -     0.8        -     160         -      -
Oilseeds                Mt     1000        -        -        -     0.8      800       -         -      -
Cocoons            ('000 nos)   250        -        -        -     0.8      200       -         -      -
Unskilled labour    mandays        9       9        13      10
(Shadow wage rate)            6.3      6.3      9.1      7.0     0.8      5.0     5.0      7.3    5.6
Stoves                each        -        -      100       75    0.68        -       -        63     51
Crematoria            each        -    5000      4000    5000      0.8        -    4000      3200   4000
Detailed conversion factors are presented in Project Files.



-87-
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Bl  Gujarat Subproject, Project Preparation Report, Gujarat Community Forest
Project Phase II, Gujarat State Forest Department, Vadodara, April 1984
B2  Himachal Pradesh Subproject, Project Preparation Report National Social
Forestry Project in Himachal Pradesh, Department of Forest Farming & Soil
Conservation, Shimla, August 8, 1984
B3  Rajasthan Subproject, Project Preparation Report, Social Forestry Project,
Forest Department, Government of Rajasthan, Jaipur, March 1984.
B4  Uttar Pradesh Subproject, Project Preparation Report, Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry Project Phase II (1984-1990) (Two Volumes) Social Forestry
Directorate, U.P., February, 1984.
B5  Project Paper, India National Social Forestry, USAID/India, (Unclassified),
Department of State, Agency for International Development, Washington, D.C.
20523, April 23, 1985.
B6 Government Orders and Proforma Agreements concerning private vastelaLd
planting schemes, tree tenure schemes, community managed woodlots and tree
fodder plantations: Uttar Pradesh, Government Order October 16, 1981 and
Proforma Agreement; Gujarat, Proforma Agreements for Nalki lands and
Village Woodlots; Rajasthan, Allotment Rules; Himachal Pradesh, Governmen.
Order (Letter No. 1 Ft(F) 7-/81 dated 19 July 1984) "Social Forestry-
Involvement of People" and No. FT60-36/78 (M) "Management of private areas
under Section 38 of the Indian Forest Act - Raising of plantation.s Lereon."
Cl  Project File Gujarat
Item 1 Description of the Project
Item 2 Organization and Training
Item 3 Research
Item 4 Cost Tables
Item 5 Distribution Modes, Rates of Return and Cost Recovery to Forest
Department for Plantation Models



-88-
ANNEX 
Page 2 of 3
C2  Project File Himachal Pradesh
Item 1 Description of the Project
Item 2 Organization and Training
Item 3 Research
Item 4 Cost Tables
Item 5 Distribution Modes, Rates of Return and Cost Recovery to Forest
Forest Department for Plantation Models
Item 6 Copy of letter dated September 26, 1983 from the Secretary
(Forests) to the Governmeut of Himachal Pradesh, Management of
Private Areas under Section 38 of the Indian Forest Act - Raising
of plant3tion thereon.
Item 7 Copy of letter dated July 19, 1984 from Secretary (Forests) to
the Government of Himachal Pradesh to the Chief Conservator of
Forests, "Social Forestry - Involvement of People.'
Item 8 Management of Private Areas under Section 38 of the India Forest
Act - Raising of plantations thereon. Copy of letter dated
December 20, 1984 from the Chief Conservator of Forests H.P. to
all CFs/DFOs(T) in H.P.
Item 9 Section 38 of the India Forest Act, 1927 (As modified up to
December 1, 1973).
C3 Project File Rajasthan
Item 1 Description of the Project
Item 2 Organization and Training
Item 3 Research
Item 4 Cost Tables
Item 5 Distribution Modes, Rates of Return and Cost Recovery to Forest
Department for Plantation Models
C4  Project File Uttar Pradesh
Item 1 Description of the Project
Item 2 Organization and Training
Item 3 Research
Item 4 Cost Tables
Item 5 Distribution Modes, Rates of Return and Cost Recovery to Forest
Department for Plantation Models
C5  Project File
Item I Description of GOI Subproject (Social Forestry Support Office)
Item 2 Cost Tables Social Forestry Support Office
Item 3 Cost Tables - Total Project
Item 4 Management and Choice of Species in Social Forestry
Item 5 Monitoring avd Evaluation



-89-
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
Item 6  Training Curricula in Social Forestry
Item 7  Improved Stoves and Crematoria
Item 8  Social Impact and Benefit
Item 9  Improved Market Function as a Social Forestry Strategy
Item 10 Potential Roles of Non-Governmental Organization in Social
Forestry
It-= 11 Suggested Guidelines for Community Forest Management Plan
Item 12 Social Forestry Management Planning Officer, Job Description
Item 13 Tree Growing Farm Budgets
C6  Project File - Cost Tables, Financial and Economic Analysis
Item 1  Inflation Rates Used.
Item 2  Notes on Economic Analysis (Conversion Factors Used in Produce
Economic Values aud Specific Conversion Factors)
Item 3  Summary of Distribution Modes - Plantation Outputs Accuring
to FD, Panchayats and Individuals by Z of Products
Item 4  Summary of Plantation Establishment and Maintenance Costs for
4 Stateis in Rs from Year 0



INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Proposed formst Department Organizatlon
Uttar Pradesh State
OrgonIlzalonol Chad
|      CaindliolnCr
_ _   _      _       _                                 -     .~~~~~~~~orw ic     Fo l  (MC1
ClwI4 Cunwvotuci    j                                             Gnor,.glFunctz    1
Faoslil. S=c llcoity                                                 &A4w Stan
I  PCCI/   }iCC#/                         ccI.ls
gmla fetailfy functala
hidtOrlm  CCt,tt" lore                                                     /Xilt>,al CCF/SE loXw
F   (23 cthfttst)                                                              (266e<tticl)
6 I?agoj Or= 2olt
VAMBIdfld-217W



INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Propoed Forest Departmnent Organizatlon
Rajasthan Stote
Organizational Chart
Chet
Pano,iat otatf Aao
f.                                                     1    (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DYomnt 
- W=0nc/foCCF
IKuncjAg DCF
0 :I co"gmtof of uot o
4ifqns~~~~Un Dvoc'i
tWostorn~~~~~~~~ Roun   FOt  t m Reog t hoa 
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pbni shc" 
bMibi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fi CC
*x d roctfN 5usE1oI torr1fa   wV'l  ' Calf OIf FrJgOm  anct WW?flf TOgag n                                                   WI-27
uxwrg DCF~~~~~~~~~~~~Wcl S"-2W



INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Proposed Forest Department Organzatlion
Gujarat State
Organizational Chart
Socro?ay. Frats &
| Ericrtnt
PIvnc'plW CNOI
CConwlva t   ravotti
Develogwient                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Social Fowtosry                                           Evcmn 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1-  -             
| Funcllcor 
|           |   |   ~~~~~~~CF/Trlning, | |l
CF/MAE                Resch a                rC#/PlrinnS
(Favsfry Circle3s-|
9Jrtmod ceAJI
Chief Corsevafoss) _
Arryo(i                              I?allici   NI hs0hno                                                    A                                      Eroch od
0C4CO                                Citcle      lCwc97                                                        Cirleh      lC 
wUrki*-27193



INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Proposed Focest Depoitmont Organizouion
Himachal Pradesh State
Organizoatonal Chad
la~~f
Ch ot Saioloy a
Sencwca tals (AS>F
___ So_l -air
CCF                                            CC F: Plaw|                                                             CCF lFQ
Lrtcnal                                                                                                           F  DrvolopnVl CaP
/ACCF/j 0CC/15s   I
ACCF/WJd                               Ca/CF
-                          I                   I/I
I  so7cEws  1  1    8tooPuW      l                                                                                                                                      l !r~~~ScxgFotsfl
Pa,tO?Os i Faeh~fA 44rW                                                                                                                           -
IWI?cv(a)
160Rage~011t               Ic4j OMang
59Q oopjty                  80 DCpuIt 
F~ a~
GuYa                  Wollion~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 18865
_/       .     -     ,                               INDIA
AFGHANISTAN\                   Q Xod
NATONAL SOCIAL FORESRY PROFOJECT
MA:                                      &FtSP AREAS
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eSn AD PRJErAE
-~~~~~~~~~                        '--'T? --AN
<-  4   ARA~~~~~~~E)SMLMRaiARA
0  SrATECIALS  A
/Y          0~ NJAIKXCRA
30.A
-4  4L~~~~~~~-
AML _AD            _             -   -
1_  _,                   KERALA
___k._
___;___                                                          0 20    0 
Si LANCA      cN*oo
_ORISAL195



-2s                 \,                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDIA  s
}   w                       ~~~~~~~NATIONAL SOAL FRESTRY PROJECT
t         8   2~~~~ STATE OF GUJARAT
P  A  K  I  S  T  A  N                                  4x.>N-   
Lr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                          COMr MKO W" H^ A J    ,   t    <UAR NS     -*
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CUat FOM CAM Hg  9$\Amlit      $ojipA
,                                                   OAMw  M  v)    4   t                             . O
NA                            t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



IBRD 18867
HIMACHAL
PRADESH   C  ~                           \
|  UTTARKASHI         -      _     /|
JANI   \ CHAMOLI
AZ>    ~   TEMGARWMA
HARYANA                             **                         PI-I
PAURl lEt         _.                 ZI i r IA
ALMOPA                      %
~ y  -  NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
' NAIN/TAt          <           tSTATE OF ULTAR PRADESH
N/////>///ffi>/AINITA7vX 9t  J   *   District Headquarters  -     District Boundaries
ZA  Divisional Hleadquarers      Stale Boundaries
eH                   / ,;Ew                         "Tkv                      n  Regional Headquarters        International Boundaries
I State Headquarters    -      Forest Region Boundaries
''Protect Area                  jnkotge of two or more
*~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~PLSI                                                                    itits to make one forest
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
11~~~~~~~~~ 71 7/                                  Ill J   1e '/ r.t$//,            -
I- MADHYA PRADESH  $
2~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
so    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~IA
mea20ise 6lea  ?by                                      -
-~ oiS .ltITheNb' U.S-MILEUShF.Caemt.,ewAPI16
-  h  0 n  oia uno,7yysivmcvr C f  oe
KorEER



IBRD 18868
INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
STATE OF RAJASTHAN
0    DISTRICT lEADGUARMERS
*    SrATE CAPITAL                                                               >E _,
------- OSTRC ODRIES                                  i
STATE BOUDARES                              _.                                    EXsTUG FOREST TRAG SCH       O(OOL
30                    .- INTERN'ATIONAL aOudnaS                                                            PROPOSED FOREST TRANING SCHOOL
20'    *            r. )               *   EXISTING FOREST RESEARCH CENTER
ARIM WESTEIN pLAR aONE IAI
O  25  5D  n3  wo  125  350 175X13 'o                                i                       IRRIGATED NORl.WTSTEWJ RASAIZOaE 1
0  25   W   75   100  "S  *0  113  XK/                                           TRANSITIONAL PLAN OP INAND DANAGE (OE IA)
KILOMETERS                                   IB        r1                  WM  TRiSmOI PLAN Or uNt BAIN (AOE IIAI
/-,b~SEu sAD EASTERN PLAN (ONE IBA
/    GANGANAGAR'  .                               HlOODPONE SN  ADaEM
- ---                                               HUMID SOUTHERN RAN eONE NIV
I KANER                                    :N                     o
2V  ~ ~        ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~           UNJHUNU)~~~~~~C      RUUTA
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA
,,,_-r_Z__,_  ~ ~~~             ~       ~~~~~~~ A_    G   A
\..7J     k.,-            GUJARAT                                                                                                        71
-*-------- - - -- ,~~~  ~    -- - - '-a. -   DU ~MADHYA  PRADESH
APRIL 1985



IBRD 18869
76                                77 70-                                                               790
I N D I A
J A M M U                                               NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
a n d                                                          STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH
KASHMIR                                                                                                                30
-3232
) ~ ~~                       ~~~ --9  ' I                                     J
CHA MBAo                                                              r   
* LAHUL and SPITI
A*Chaflmba
IA         \ 21 1 ve / Kh 
<         >         ~~~~~~~palnurO                               e~vnr
N.~~~~~~~~
-3'@  3  ji    KA~NGRA Bai                                                                          0    \ath
9=>\ \~~~~~~~~.OoKulu   
to& \,~HAMIRPURg r                                                KINAUR                      N 
PUNJAB                N A                      MAND  I                                            t
\ .^>oU  W    t                 ~~~~~~~\ Rampurp ;6
N . B                                     SHIMLIA
0   a   16  24  32             -The 
miles
-a0                                                       Olai                           UTTAR   PRADESH                   300~
Solan...,7
PROJECT AREA
A    FOREST CIRCLE HEADOUARTERS                                                                   ri- o V V   04 U Vs R    ~ d_
SIRMAU,                           ll~~~~~~~~~~T. 0bW 5000. "    0tV-
3    FOREST TRAINING SCHOOL                        '       '                                         mo.- _d
O    AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES                 .)-  Or Th. )W. =0
o    TOWNSANOVILLAGES                              hamnt                     ,ba SaTO* d.0-0
e    DISTRICT HEADOUARTERS                                                                       Vrrw eDnot_* _
- of D. k%0M 80 .* W
RIVERS                                            aZ    Fo  Cosw-amo
HARY  NA NA- W
7560                               770                                7B                                790
APRIL 1985






