Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13698
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1611-IN)
NOVEMBER 10, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
India Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr.1611-IN)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of currency (abbreviation) = Indian Rupee (Rs.)
Currency Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average (1984/85):           US$ 1.00 = Rs. 11.89
Intervening Year Average (1985 to 92):      US$1.00 = Rs.15.94
Completion Year Average (1992/93):          US$1.00 = Rs.26.41
FISCAL YEAR
GOI and all States: April I to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CSO                   Central Support Office
ERR                   Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP                Food Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FD                    Forestry Department
FRR                   Financial Rate of Return
GOI                   Government of India
IDA                   International Development Association
M&E                   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOEF                  Ministry of Environment and Forestry
MTR                   Mid-Term Review
NGO                   Non-Government Organization
NSFP                  National Social Forestry Project
NWDB                  National Wasteland Development Board
SAR                   Staff Appraisal Report
T&V                   Training and Visit
USAID                 United States Agency for International Development
WB                    World Bank



THE WORLD BANK             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offic of Dirctoi'-Germwal
Operatons Evakuto
November 10, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:     Project Completion Report on India
National Social Forestry (Credit 1611-IN!
Attached is the Project Completion Report on India: National Social Forestry Project (Credit
1611-IN). Parts I and III were prepared by the South Asia Regional Office and Part II by the four
participating Borrower states.
The project was the seventh Bank-assisted social forestry project in India, providing assistance
to the Government of India and four states: Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Himachal
Pradesh. The project aimed to increase production of fuelwood, small timber, poles, and fodder;
increase rural employment, farmers' incomes, and economic opportunities for landless people; afforest
degraded areas and wastelands, and reduce soil erosion; and strengthen forestry institutions.
A majority of project targets were met or exceeded during implementation. Farm forestry has
been highly satisfactory, becoming a popular movement in parts of Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, which
had benefitted earlier from Bank support for social forestry. Despite poor coordination of nursery
and plantation operations, planting on private, community, and government wastelands made
substantial progress, and interest in tree planting was raised. But the project made little contribution
to fuelwood or fodder production, and project components aimed at the poor and landless were
unsatisfactory. Innovations designed to increase participation by the poor and enhance equity, were
stymied by vested interests. Commercially viable components have succeeded, although a degree of
market saturation has taken place which may undermine sustainability. Continued financial support
for public project components is uncertain. Monitoring and evaluation followed agreed guidelines,
but lack of commitment and frequent staff changes reduced its effectiveness. The value of training
and technical assistance provided was questionable.
The quality of the PCR is satisfactory. In Part II, the four participating states provide
individual accounts of implementation experience of variable quality, but consistent overall with Parts
I and III. For Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, only summaries are included but the full Part II reports
are available in OED's files.
Because of the success of farm forestry and tree planting on wastelands, the outcome of the
project is rated as satisfactory. But institutional development has been modest, and sustainability is
uncertain. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mey not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr.1611-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ......................................................................                                                   i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   .....................................................................  iii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ......................................   1
1.    Project Identity  ..........................................................   1
2.    Project Background and Objectives  .........................................................                              1
3.    Project  Design   Aspects .........................................................                                       1
4.    Project   Implementation .........................................................                                        2
5.     Project Results  .........................................................  10
6.    Project Sustainability .........................................................  13
7.    Bank Performance  ...........................................................................                          . 14
8. Borrower's Performance ................  14
9. Lessons Learned ................  14
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ........................... 16
PART m STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...................................................                                            38
1.    Related   Bank   Loans  and/or  Credits                              ....................................... 38
2.   Project Timetable                             ................................................ 38
3.      Credit Disbursements .......................................................... 39
4.      Project Implementation  ......................................................... 40
A.      Physical Targets and Achievements  .......................................................  40
B.      Staffing, Civil Works and Vehicles - Physical Targets and Achievements  ......                            ..... 41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



5.  Project Cost and Financing ................. 42
A. Project Cost ................. 42
B.  Project Financing ................. 43
6. Project Results ................. 44
A. Direct Benefits ..................                                                                          44
B.  Economic Impact ................. 45
C.  Financial Impact ..................                                                                         45
D. Studies ..................                                                                                   46
7. Status of Covenants ................. 48
8. Use of Bank Resources ................. 52
A.      Staff Inputs  ................................................. 52
B.      Missions ....................................................                                           52
TABLES
1.     Exchange Rate and Inflation Factors .................................................    53
2.      Sensitivity   Analysis ...................................................                              54
ANNEX 1 Financial and Economic Re-evaluation.                                                                          55
Table IA       Rajasthan - Farm  Forestry   ................                  ................................. 61
Table 1B   Rajasthan - Community Woodlots .................................................. 62
Table 1C    Rajasthan - Rehabilitation of Degraded Forests ........................................... 63
Table ID       Rajasthan   -  Strip   Plantations ...................................................                  64
Table 1E       Rajasthan - Economic Analysis - Total Project ........................................... 65
Table 1F       Rajasthan - Investment Costs in Financial and Economic Terms .........                      .............. 67
Table IG       Rajasthan - Physical Phasing of Plantations ............................................... 68
Table 2A       Uttar Pradesh - Farm  Forestry  .......................                 .......................... 69
Table 2B       Uttar Pradesh - Community Woodlots .................................................   70
Table 2C    Uttar Pradesh - Rehabilitation of Degraded Forests  ...................                  .................. 71
Table 2D       Uttar Pradesh - Strip Plantations ...........................                ...................... 72
Table 2E       Uttar Pradesh - Economic Analysis - Total Project .......................               ................ 73
Table 2F    Uttar Pradesh - Investment Costs in Financial and Economic Terms ................... 75
Table 2G    Uttar Pradesh - Physical Phasing of Plantations  ........................... .............. 76
Table 3A       Himachal Pradesh - Farm  Forestry   .................................................    77
Table 3B    Himachal Pradesh - Community Woodlots ...............................................  78
Table 3C    Himachal Pradesh - Rehabilitation of Degraded Forests ..............                     ................... 80
Table 3D       Himachal Pradesh - Economic Analysis - Total Project ..............                   ................... 8 1
Table 3E       Himachal Pradesh - Investment Costs in Financial and Economic Terms .......                       ...... 83
Table 3F    Himachal Pradesh - Physical Phasing of Plantations ..................................... 84
Table 4A       Gujarat - Farm  Forestry  ................................................. 85
Table 4B       Gujarat  -  Community   Woodlots ...................................................                    86
Table 4C    Gujarat - Rehabilitation of Degraded Forests .............................................   87
Table 4D       Gujarat - Strip Plantations ................................................. 88
Table 4E       Gujarat - Economic  Analysis - Total Project ............................................... 89
Table 4F    Gujarat - Investment Costs in Financial and Economic Terms ..........                         ............... 91



Table 4G   Gujarat - Physical Phasing of Plantations .............       ..................... 92
Table 5    Financial Prices .................................. 93
Table 6     Economic Analysis - Total Project .9..................................4
Table 7     Sensitivity  Analysis ...................................                          96
Table 8    Per Ha Yield Estimates for Major Species Planted under the Project .97






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1611-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the National Social Forestry Project
(NSFP) for which an IDA Credit of SDR166.4 million (Credit 1611-IN) (US$165 million
equivalent) was approved on June 18, 1985. SDR11.O million was cancelled on December 1991
as part of the funds redeployment exercise. The Credit closed on March 31, 1993, 27 months
behind schedule. Final disbursement from the Credit was made on April 6, 1993, and the revised
credit amount of SDR155.4 was fully disbursed.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part Im of this report were prepared by
an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program mission which visited India in September/October
1993. Part II was prepared by Governments of participating states.
The report was based, inter alia, on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the
legal documents, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
internal Bank memoranda and reports, field visits, and discussions with the officials of
Government of India (GOI), and the State Govemments of Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan
and Uttar Pradesh as well as the World Bank (WB) staff in New Dehli and Washington who had
been associated with the project.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1611-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1. Objectives
1.1       The project aimed at increasing production of fuelwood, small timber, poles, fodder
and other minor forest products; rural employment and incomes and opportunities for participation
of landless persons; afforestation of degraded areas and wasteland; and strengthening forestry
institutions through provision for additional staff, training, research and equipment. It was
designed to provide continuing assistance for two of the four states, viz. Uttar Pradesh and
Gujarat, to expand and improve social forestry activities started under earlier Bank-assisted
projects, and to initiate investments in two other states, viz. Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh.
2. Implementation Experience
2.1        Project activities commenced in 1986. There were start-up delays but at project
completion most targets set at its appraisal, Mid-Term Review and extension were exceeded. Farm
forestry, community land and government wasteland plantings registered remarkable
achievements. Tree tenure plantations (for poor and landless), however, have fallen short of
projected targets. All the four project states supported decentralized private nurseries; but
progress in Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh was poor. Coordination of nursery and plantation
operations in all participating states was inadequate; seed demand could not be met from the limited
number of mature seed producing stands and much of the seed procurement was from uncertified
private sources; and seedling grading standards also received little attention. As a result, many
seedlings of poor quality were planted, adversely influencing survival and output. No uniform
policy was pursued in the project states for pricing and distribution of seedlings. In general, the
prices at which seedlings were sold to farmers were lower than costs of production. There has
been a progressive increase in selling prices and that all planters are now charged for seedlings
distributed, even if full cost recovery is not attained.
2.2       In Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, which account for 90 percent of achievements under
farm forestry, farmers' preference were for timber and pole producing species. Although
plantation targets in community wasteland plantations were exceeded, there was little consultation
and participation of the local communities in the planning, establishment or management of these
plantations, which in the majority of cases have been done by the Forest Department. Further, the
appraisal expectation that benefit-sharing arrangements, for both intermediate and final yields,
would be formulated prior to plantation establishment has not been realized. In most states,
community plantations are still with Forestry Department. In areas where the decision has been
taken to transfer protection and management responsibilities to local communities/panchayats, there
are concerns about sustained protection and management of these plantations. The vegetational
composition and structure of the established stands in government wasteland plantations are as
anticipated at appraisal and area targets have been exceeded. The expectations that the project
would contribute to improved technical efficiency of plantation operations have not been fully met.
2.3        Project states followed GOI/WB monitoring and evaluation guidelines. Frequent
changes in staff, limited feedback into planning, and inadequate staffing and Monitoring and



iv
Evaluation (M&E) training constrained the effectiveness of M&E operations. While overseas
training provided for high-level officers enabled them to acquaint themselves with management
aspects of social forestry, little practical use was made of the expertise gained. Greater emphasis
should have been placed on in-country training and exchange of social forestry experiences
between the mid- and field-level officials of the states. Training offered to farmers, representatives
of panchayats, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and nursery operators covered tree
planting and nursery techniques. Collaboration between Forestry and Agricultural Departments for
extension in the project states was nominal. This was mainly due to lack of: (a) identified nodal
authority to ensure joint work program; and (b) appropriate extension messages for farm forestry
development and improved post-plantation management. In all the four states, research
programming was weak and the involvement of Forestry Department officials to review the
research progress in the light of social forestry requirements was minimal. The component to
establish a Central Support Office to assist the State Governments in project formulation, M&E and
provide a forum for cross-fertilization of experiences did not take off and could not contribute to
improving the states' capabilities as expected. At project completion, project costs amounted to
Rs. 6,762 million, 17 percent higher than appraisal estimate.
3. Results
3.1        Overall, the project has achieved its main objectives. Estimated aggregate wood
production level is expected to match the appraisal estimates, despite lower than expected survival
and productivity rates and changes in stand composition and production mix. In contrast to SAR
expectations, farm forestry will not substantially contribute to fuelwood and fodder production,
since most participating farmers' preference has been for commercial species for cash incomes
rather than the species for meeting specifically the subsistence needs for fuelwood and fodder. On
the other hand, plantations in public lands generate the highest increases in fuelwood and fodder
production. The estimates of economic rate of return (ERRs) for the project as a whole is 22
percent, and for each of the four sub-projects are 12 percent (Rajasthan), 28 percent (Uttar
Pradesh), 13 percent (Himachal Pradesh) and 23 percent (Gujarat), as compared with the appraisal
estimates of 27 percent, 17 percent, 25 percent, 34 percent and 26 percent respectively.
3.2        The project also has resulted in several other positive developments. It has evoked
and widened the interest of the rural population in tree planting and served as a vehicle to bring
about some policy changes including removal of restrictions which discourage expansion of farm
forestry and introducing rules to enhance community participation and benefit-sharing. The project
investments provided substantial employment opportunities to the rural poor. Plantations in
degraded areas have helped to conserve soil and water as well as to take the pressure off the
national forest resources.
4. Sustainability
4.1        Farm forestry, as popularized by the project, has now become a movement in several
parts of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. Its favorable impact on incomes has contributed to positive
changes in the attitude of farmers towards tree planting. Market saturation for some of the
products could impede expanded planting of certain species. In Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh,
farm forestry is not yet well established. Without continued support and resolution of technical
issues which affect productivity, sustainability of activities initiated through the project in these
states is uncertain. Sustained management of plantations on public lands is not likely unless some
radical steps are taken to involve the communities to have larger measure of responsibility to
protect and maintain the established plantations. In the absence of continued government financing
or follow-up projects, institutional facilities and incremental staff brought in by the project will
remain seriously underudlized.



v
S. Lessons Learnt
5.1        The key lessons learnt in the implementation of this project include the following:
(a)    The much stronger performance of the project in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh
(which had already benefited from earlier projects) than in the other two
states, suggests that a prolonged commitment (exceeding the conventional
project period of five years) is necessary to develop the capacity to manage
large-scale social forestry projects.
(b)    Even resource poor farmers are prepared to commit land and labor to planting
slow maturing species of forest trees on a significant scale inspite of the lack
of immediate benefits. Plantings for fuelwood production, while possibly of
interest to the landless, has little appeal to landholders who can meet their fuel
needs from lops and tops or from other on-farm sources.
(c)    Vested departmental interests and traditional modes of operation are the
biggest obstacles to promoting genuine community participation in woodlot
management and to encourage the emergence of private-sector run nurseries.
The preferred structure for the latter is a pricing policy for seedlings which
makes nursery operations pay.
(d)    Investment in training, especially overseas training, are only warranted if
linked to staffing plans which enable those who have been trained to apply
their newly-acquired skills.
(e)    The project would have benefited from highly targeted short-term technical
assistance aimed at introducing improved plantation techniques for arid areas
and at developing a greater integration between farm forestry and livestock-
based farming system.






1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1611-IN)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name     :     National Social Forestry Project
Credit No.       :     1611-IN
RVP Unit         :     South Asia Region
Country          :     India
Sector           :     Forestry
2. Project Background and Objectives
2.1        The National Social Forestry Project (NSFP) is the seventh Bank-assisted project
aimed at supporting social forestry development in India. It originated from the proposals prepared
in 1984 by four states (Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh) with the
assistance of the office of the Inspector General of Forests and the World Bank (WB) Resident
Mission in New Delhi. The project was jointly appraised by WB and USAID in 1985, and became
effective in February 1986. With an estimated total cost of about US$328 million (Rs. 3,933
million), including an Interntional Development Association (IDA) credit of US$165 million and
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) financing of US$80 million, this
five-year project aimed at: (a) increasing production of fuelwood, small timber, poles and fodder,
(b) increasing rural employment, farmers' incomes and opportunities for participation of landless
persons; (c) afforestation of degraded areas and wasteland and reducing soil erosion; and (iv)
strengthening forestry institutions. The main components of the project included: (a) plantation
activities including the development of agro-forestry, tree ownership schemes for the poor and
landless, community and government wasteland plantations; and (b) institutional and infrastructure
support, providing for incremental forestry staff, housing, offices, equipment, planning, training,
extension, research, studies, fuel-saving devices and monitoring and evaluation. Provision was
also made under the project to establish a Social Forestry Support Office in the Ministry of
Environment and Forestry. This office was intended to play a coordinating, support and policy
guidance role in the development of social forestry throughout India.
3. Project Design Aspects
3.1        The project, built on the experiences gained from the earlier Bank-financed and other
social forestry projects in India, included several new features: emphasis on planting on private
lands; an increased role for decentralized private nurseries; the imposition of limits on free seedling



2
distribution and the introduction of a pricing policy aimed at increasing cost recovery; plantations
on common and government-owned wastelands devoted to meeting fuelwood needs of the poor,
formation of tree ownership schemes for the landless; enhanced community participation and
formulation of written agreements with village panchayats for benefit-sharing and early transfer of
responsibilities to the participating communities for protection, maintenance and replantation of
community (panchayat) plantations. It also called for increased involvement of existing agricultural
extension services in social forestry; and improved operational efficiency through reducing costs
and strengthening institutions.
3.2        The project was designed to provide continuing assistance for two of the four states,
viz. Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to expand and improve social forestry activities started under
earlier Bank-assisted projects (Credit 925-IN and Credit 961-IN) and to initiate investments in
Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh. To meet the overall project objectives and to suit the differing
requirements of the participating states, flexibility was allowed in plantation models and
implementation arrangements. The scope and scale, particularly of the physical component targets,
generally corresponded to project requirements. In retrospect, however, the design would have
benefited from more emphasis on defining the technological aspects of project operations (e.g.
seed collection, processing, nursery and seedling standards and post-establishment plantation
management) and elaboration of the modalities of community participation. Some of the more
innovative proposals, (e.g. for tree tenure for the landless, and benefit sharing arrangements in
public plantations) were based on unduly optimistic expectations over the rate at which
fundamentally new concepts would be taken up, as evidenced by reductions in scale adopted
during project implementation. Over-emphasis on establishing special units exclusively for social
forestry has contributed to recurrent budgetary problems in the post-project period and raised
questions over the institutional sustainability of the project.
4. Project Implementation
4.1        Project activities started in 1986. Following the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in 1988,
several adjustments were made in the targets, which were further revised in 1990, when the project
closing date was extended until 31 March 1993. The USAID financing was utilized only up to the
end of the original closing date of the project, and the IDA credit savings arising from the
devaluation of the Rupee were utilized to finance project operations during the extended period.
Modifications introduced during 1990 revision emphasized aspects relating to seedling pricing,
benefit-sharing in public plantations and village level micro-planning, for total land resource
development.
4.2        Plantation  activities. Total area planted under the project (1,857,012 ha)
surpassed the targets set at appraisal, MTR and project extension (708,983 ha, 765,560 ha and
1,474,380 ha respectively) but the additional area was achieved by prolonging the disbursement
period. As can be noted from Table 4A in Part III, farm forestry, community land and government
wasteland plantings registered spectacular achievements, substantially exceeding the targets
projected in the SAR. Tree tenure plantations (for poor and landless), however, have fallen short
of the relatively modest expectations set for them. Progress, however, was not uniform in all the
project states. The following paragraphs review these aspects.
4.3        Nursery development and production. Provision was made for the produc-
tion of 700 million seedlings through project-financed nurseries. It was expected that all four
participating states would support the development of large numbers of family operated/private
sector nurseries. This expectation materialized in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, where 35 percent to
40 percent of total seedlings production was from the private sector, but there was much less
progress in promoting private sector nurseries in the other two states where only 15-20 percent of
seedlings were produced privately. This is partly explained by the fact that Gujarat and Uttar



3
Pradesh were in the second phase of Bank-funded social forestry operations and farm forestry was
already an established and expanding activity in these states.
4.4        Coordination of nursery and plantation operations was inadequate. Although nursery
stock composition, in general, corresponded well with the needs of the plantation program, the
lack of information about demand for specific species led to their over-production. In some cases,
the mission observed that up to 60 percent of the seedling stock was not lifted from the nurseries.
Additionally, nursery seedling production data and mission observations indicated that
containerized/polypot seedling production rates in some private nurseries were as low as 50 to 60
seedlings/M2, which are below the expected standard production rates of 150 to 200 seedlings/M2.
4.5        The project provided individual families, non-governmental institutions and schools
with seeds, polythene bags, fertilizers, training and technical advice. However, because of the
scale of the private planting program and increased number of non-departmental and public
nurseries, technical supervision (in this case by officials of the rank of foresters and deputy
foresters) was not as desired. Among private nursery operators, 'kissan' or farmer and 'Mahilla
Mandal' (Women's Group) nurseries performed better than some of the other institutional
nurseries. Moreover, public nurseries did not become effective extension centers. Forestry
Department nurseries, which could have served as demonstrations on technology improvement and
management efficiency did not meet these expectations, partly due to the project management's
primary concern for meeting seedling production targets for large-scale plantation programs rather
than quality seedling production.
4.6        Nursery technology improvement. Seedling quality improvement initiatives
included identification of 'plus trees' for seed production and collection but there was little
management of the candidate plus trees. In all four states, however, seed demand could not be
met from these limited number of seed production stands. Further, since many of the tree species
raised for the project plantations were newly introduced, the number of mature seed producing
stands, inside or outside traditional forest areas of these states, was limited. In general, much of
the seed procurement for plantations continued to be from uncertified private sources and with only
limited quality control. Establishment of seedling grading standards received little attention, partly
due to the scale of the seedling production operations. As a result, many seedlings of poor quality
appear to have been planted, adversely affecting survival and output.
4.7        Project nursery and plantation development were generally perceived and organized
as separate and mutually exclusive activities. There was no effort to integrate the management of
the two operations or to take account of plantation site conditions in deciding upon the nursery
management regimes. For example, planting stock for moisture-stressed areas such as semi-arid
sites in Rajasthan, or for degraded forest areas, would have benefited from the introduction of high
root/shoot ratios to improve their survival probability. Thus, nurseries raising stock for agro-
ecological zones or plantation components where moisture stress was the main constraint on plant
survival and growth, received identical treatment (watering and fertilization) to those raising stock
for other less stressed agro-ecological zones. Site-specific nursery management for raising
drought-tolerant planting stock would involve manipulation of seedbed seedling density, polypot
size, fertilizer composition and frequency, and applying appropriate root-pruning techniques. In
addition, the holding of polypots in the nursery for longer than the desirable period, inadequate
shifting in the nursery beds, and the lack of root-pruning, resulted in root-curling, which adversely
affected the seedling quality.
4.8        Private plantations. Limited numbers of fuelwood, fodder, small timber and fruit
producing species were distributed free of cost for private planting on farm boundaries and
homesteads. However, in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, which represent 90 percent of the
achievements under the farm forestry component, farmers' preferences were for timber and pole



4
producing species which account for 77 percent and 72 percent of the growing stock respectively.
As a consequence, the phasing of output and product mix does not correspond with appraisal
expectations which called for emphasis on fast-growing fuelwood species. On the other hand,
stand composition in Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan, where fuel is in tighter supply, by and
large corresponds to SAR expectations.
4.9        An unexpectedly high proportion (about 60 percent) of the farm forestry plantations
in Gujarat was established in blocks, owned by bigger landlords. Surveys undertaken in the State
by the Forestry Department indicate that about 18 percent of the farm forestry beneficiaries have
raised block plantations accounting for about 60 percent of the planting stock. In the other three
states, 80 percent to 85 percent of planting has been done on farm boundaries and in homesteads.
4.10       The survival rates for Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat are
estimated at 31 percent, 75 percent, 54 percent and 18 percent respectively. On the average, the
planting densities range from 1,800 to 2,500 plants/ha as against 1,500/ha recommended in the
SAR. Inspite of the Bank mission's recommendations, the stand densities were not adjusted to the
site factors, in particular, to rainfall. This might have contributed to high plant mortality and
reduced growth due to increased inter-plant competition for limited water resources available in
high moisture stressed areas.
4.11       Private plantations were also to be established on ecologically vulnerable private lands
belonging to economically disadvantaged farmers. However, a review of the selected sites and
discussions with beneficiaries indicated that these ecological and socio-economic criteria (i.e.
beneficiaries who were poor/belonging to socially-disadvantaged sections of society) were not
adequately adhered to. The sites selected neither showed any extraordinary signs of soil erosion or
land degradation.
4.12       In Uttar Pradesh, which accounted for the largest share of farm forestry under the
project, implementation impact was uneven between the Western and Eastern parts of the state.
The slower progress in the Eastern part is largely attributable to its smaller size of land holdings,
higher tenancy, relatively less-developed marketing opportunities and greater degree of
landlessness. Additionally, social forestry investments in the past were directed to the western
part, mainly due to favorable conditions (e.g. relatively well-developed infrastructure and
commercial orientation of farmers). The State Government has taken increasingly active role to
enlarge and speed up the program in the eastern part through deployment of additional staff,
vehicles and equipment and construction of office buildings, all financed under the project. The
impact of these investments is expected to be realized well beyond the completion of the project.
4.13       Community wasteland and woodlot plantations. Community wasteland
plantations were to be established in collaboration with village panchayats. These plantations were
intended to augment the supply of fuelwood, fruits and other edible products for the use of the
participating communities and the plantation targets were exceeded. However, in the majority of
cases, the community involvement was limited to obtaining formal approval of the panchayat for
providing community land for plantation establishment by the Forestry Department. There was
little consultation or participation of the community in the planning, establishment, or management
of these plantations which was done by the Forest Department. The micro-planning surveys
conducted in the four states were often carried out after plantations were established. Further, the
appraisal expectation that benefit-sharing arrangements, for both intermediate and final yields,
would be forrnulated prior to plantation establishment was not realized. As a result, many of the
participating communities still perceive these plantations as a government department activity rather
than a cooperative effort by them and Forestry Department, and their future is in doubt. Following
GOI's decision to adopt a joint forest management approach for public forestry plantations, steps
were taken by the participating states to frame regulations and form management units towards the



5
later phase of the project. It is too early to assess the operational efficacy and impact of these,
since the experiences gained so far are limited.
4.14       In most of the community woodlot plantations, the species mix and planting densities
match the SAR expectations. However, the stand structure lacks the expected emphasis on
production of fruits, edible flowers and tassar silk. The Arjun (Terminalia sps.) plantations
established on a small-scale for tassar silk production in Uttar Pradesh initially generated additional
employment and income for the communities and individuals involved. However, due to
discontinuity in the support provided by the state silk board and inadequate stand management by
the project, this activity was abandoned and failed to reach its full potential.
4.15       In Gujarat, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh, grass fodder production (along with
tree crop production) in these plantations was targeted toward meeting the fodder needs of the
village communities, who enthusiastically welcomed it. However, the full potential of this activity
was not realised due to the factors discussed in para 4.22.
4.16       Tree survival rates under this component in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal
Pradesh and Gujarat are 64 percent, 63 percent, 51 percent and 61 percent respectively, as against
the SAR estimate of 80 percent. The adoption of soil and moisture conservation and harvesting
techniques involving contour planting in "V" ditches was encouraged by the Bank missions to
improve plant survival and growth. Further, plantations on several sites established towards the
latter part of the project emphasized multi-storeyed stand structures to improve site utilisation, soil
conservation and to diversify production.
4.17       Government wasteland  plantations.  The project activities aimed at the
rehabilitation of government wastelands included establishment of plantations on government
forest lands and along roadsides, railway lines and canal banks. These plantations were expected
to produce fuelwood, small timber, poles and fodder. The vegetational composition and structure
of the established stands are as anticipated at appraisal and area targets have been exceeded. Soil
and moisture conservation and harvesting techniques involving contour "V" ditch planting were
extensively used. In Rajasthan, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, cattle proof trenching has been used as
a protection measure against grazing damage by cattle. As against an 80 percent SAR plant
survival estimate, the survival rates for Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat
are 56 percent, 58 percent, 51 percent and 55 percent respectively.
4.18       Strip plantations have been established in linear and block forms along roadsides,
canal banks and railway strips. In Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, multi-row strip plantations of
fuelwood and ornamental species have been established. However, fruit and edible flower
producing species are not well represented in the stand composition. The plant survival rates for
Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat are 52 percent, 62 percent, and 54 percent respectively.
The stand densities average about 1,800/ha as against the SAR expectation of 1,300-2,000.
Plantation Management and Technology
4.19       Plantation management activities like weeding, irrigation and fertilization are generally
carried out by farmers for eucalyptus, teak and poplar in block plantations in Uttar Pradesh and
Gujarat. Such management activities are uncommon in boundary plantations.
4.20       Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh, broadleaved species like Acacias, Ulmus,
Ailanthus, etc. have been planted primarily for fuelwood and fodder. The project has done little to
guide farmers in managing these plantations to maximize fuelwood and fodder production. The
planting density adopted for these stands was not consistent with the goal of maximizing fuelwood
and fodder production.



6
4.21       All four states have passed orders to facilitate felling and transportation by owners of
the most commonly planted social forestry species, but some valuable species (teak and conifers)
are still on the restricted list. This could become a major constraint in the future as teak planting is
showing an upward trend both in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, and continued restrictions on tree
felling in Himachal Pradesh could adversely affect the benefits realized from private and
community land conifer plantations.
4.22       The project envisaged that established community plantations would be handed over
to the villages for management. However, as discussed earlier (para. 4.12), this process has not
made much progress and in most states these plantations are still with Forestry Department. In the
absence of a well-defined responsibility and benefit-sharing arrangement between Forestry
Department and the local communities, post-establishment management in many cases is restricted
to protection and in a few cases to harvest scheduling. Lack of silvicultural operations like
pruning, topping and thinning has resulted in loss of intermediate benefits of fuelwood and leaf-
fodder yields. In areas where decision has been taken to transfer protection and management
responsibilities to local panchayats, without adequately consulting and preparing the local
communities, there are concerns regarding sustained protection and management of these
plantations.
4.23       In contrast, the project has made good use of customary arrangements of fodder-
sharing from protected forest and community lands (locally called 'Ghasnis') in Himachal Pradesh.
In other states, however, grass fodder management is still determined by administrative regulations
rather than technical concerns. For example, fodder grass harvesting in Rajasthan from both
community wastelands and degraded forest areas follows the administrative auctioning calendar
(i.e. first week of October) rather than the timings of actual fodder availability. Consequently,
grass harvesting is restricted to a single harvest, resulting in substantial loss of production. These
inadequate efforts to optimize the use of fodder production fail to recognize that the community
lands on which these plantations are established were often the only fodder source for the cattle
belonging to the village poor, and thus may have contributed to greater social inequity. Moreover,
little attention has been paid to promoting the use of tree leaf-fodder, fruit and other non-tree crop
production.
4.24       Management of degraded forest areas and strip plantations has been restricted to their
protection. The arrangements for sharing intermediary products (twigs, branchwood, leaf-fodder,
grass) from these plantations were not worked out prior to their establishment. This apart,
regulations governing these forest lands restrict local community access to reserve forest area
plantations. Although, in some areas strip plantations serve as an important source of fuel for the
rural poor, very little effort has been made to intensify fuelwood production from these plantations.
Technological Issues
4.25       The expectations that the project would contribute to improved technical efficiency of
plantation operations have not been fully met. Low plantation survival rates and lower than
expected productivity estimates are indicative of this. Except in Uttar Pradesh, where plant
survival rates show a marginal upward trend as project implementation progressed, such trends are
not evident in the other states. As discussed previously, (para. 4.6, seedling quality), inferior
seedling quality is a contributing factor to poor plant survival and growth. The project has not
succeeded in promoting the adoption of mulching and early weeding to increase survival rates in
arid and semi-arid areas, and the continued practice of advance pit-digging (while fitting in with the
availability of labor during the dry season) negatively affects survival rates in moisture-stressed
sites. Moreover, there has been no attempt to integrate forestry in these areas with the pastoral-
based farming systems; thus, for instance, the low pollarding of Ailanthus and other fodder trees,



7
and the use of improved pruning tools, has not been introduced in Rajasthan where it would have
been appropriate.
4.26       Because of administrative and operational constraints, clear-felling and harvesting of
stemwood for use as fuelwood has not been possible from the strip plantations. However,
harvesting of twigs and branchwood from these plantations does not face such constraints.
Therefore, it would be advisable to manage these stands to maximize production of branchwood
rather than, as at present, of stemwood by increasing inter-row and inter-plant spacing. Similarly,
fruit production (including from Emblica fruit trees in community and strip plantations in Gujarat)
would be enhanced if adequate attention was given to tree density and pruning of these trees for
better fruit setting and maturing.
4.27       The project contributed positively to the introduction of stratified mixed stands in
community woodlot and degraded forest area plantations. However, inadequate attention to the
location of various species in different strata of the stand, (for instance, underplanting of strong
light-demanders without appropriate canopy or stand manipulation) has resulted in unduly high
plant mortality. The Bank correctly encouraged planting of grasses, shrubs, trees in a multi-tier
stand structure. However, their spatial arrangement at the planting site and management often
failed to take full advantage of such stand composition, as each element of the system has been
treated independently and in isolation from the other, thereby losing the intended efficacy.
4.28       In addition, management would have to pay greater attention to monitoring soil-
nutrient levels, particularly of nitrogen and phosphorous, to ensure stable and sustainable biomass
production from government and community wasteland plantations.
Institutional Aspects
4.29       Training and Extension. The project placed emphasis on in-service training for
Forestry Department staff in all the participating states. In general, it was assumed that the project
states would use existing training institutions. Hence, funds were provided primarily for the
improvement and utilization of the existing training facilities.
4.30       Provision was made for short-term training courses and workshops and study tours
and fellowships within and outside the country. A total of 9,600 forestry personnel -- as against
the appraisal target of 6,777 -- received project-funded in-service training in seed collection,
nursery operations, extension methodology and preparation of micro-plans. The project also
financed participation of 321 Forestry Department staff (mostly from Rajasthan and Gujarat), in
various social forestry workshops and study tours organized within the country. Sixty-two
forestry officers - as compared to 82 foreseen at appraisal - from the four states attended overseas
training/seminars in such fields as social forestry project management and agro-forestry
techniques. While this enabled high-level officers to acquaint themselves with latest technological
and management aspects of social forestry, little practical use was made of their expertise for
improving project implementation. It would have been useful to have given greater emphasis to in-
country training particularly for mid and field-level officials.
4.31       In addition, a large number of farmers, panchayat representatives, members of NGOs
including women's groups, students and nursery operators (totalling over 1.7 million persons in
the project states) were provided with project-funded short-term (1 to 6 days) training in tree
planting and nursery techniques. Training courses offered, however, did not place adequate
emphasis on technical aspects of project plantation operations. In general, the courses offered
reflected social forestry program priorities in the concerned states. Overall, project assistance for
training has been well utilized, significantly contributing to improving the existing human
resources for an enlarged social forestry operation.



8
4.32       The project design intended that there should be collaborative efforts between the
Forestry and Agricultural Departments for providing extension support for farm forestry
operations. Range Officers were expected to serve as Forestry Subject Matter Specialists with the
Training and Visit (T&V) agricultural extension system. In some states (e.g. Uttar Pradesh)
attempts were made to involve the T&V extension workers for farm forestry operations but with
limited success. Overall, the collaboration between Forestry and Agricultural Departments in the
project states was nominal and well below expectations. This was due to lack of: (a) an identified
nodal authority to ensure development of a joint-work program; (b) prescribed institutional
arrangements for field-level coordination between the project staff and extension workers; and (c)
appropriate extension messages for farm forestry development. The project extension activities
were limited to mass media publicity, publication of pamphlets on planting techniques and
organizing farmers' camps and seminars. Although these activities promoted farm forestry, they
do not appear to have contributed much to improving post- plantation performance. Moreover,
social forestry workers (e.g. forest guards) who were to be the primary extension agents, were
taken up with the departmental activities for seedling production, distribution, and plantation
protection, leaving little time for extension. In retrospect, for this program to be successful, it
would have been beneficial to draw, in advance, an action plan mutually agreeable to the
Departments of Forestry and Agriculture and monitor its implementation to see whether any
adjustment or exclusive attention by one agency to extension work would be necessary.
4.33       Research and  Studies. There were a number of deficiencies in the imple-
mentation of this component. In all the project states, research programming was weak; research
priorities and the institutions/researchers who would be responsible for their execution were not
identified on time; there were delays in the release of funds to the contracted institutions; and the
involvement of Forestry Department officials to review the research progress in the light of social
forestry requirements was minimal. Despite these shortcomings, the project made a useful
contribution in supporting several basic investigations. These included wood balance studies, soil
and moisture conservation technology and multi-tier plantation trials, evaluation of silvo-pasture
models suitable for saline/alkaline areas, and provenance and vegetative propagation trials for
social forestry species. Most of the project-supported research work was carried out on a
contractual basis by the local universities/research institutions within the states. It may also be
claimed that, as a result of the importance given under the project for these and other related areas
of study, social forestry has now become a priority area in the forestry research program of the
participating states.
4.34       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). M&E units established in the project states
followed GOUWB M&E guidelines for their monitoring activities. In addition to perforning
routine but somewhat restricted physical and financial monitoring, these units also undertook and
organized a number of studies. These included surveys on farmn forestry, community land
plantations, degraded forest areas, and strip plantations. In some states, these units also undertook
preparation of forest product price bulletins.
4.35       The main constraints which limited the effectiveness of M&E operations in project
states included: (a) frequent changes in senior staff; (b) limited feedback into planning; (c) lack of
M&E training for staff; and (d) inadequate staffing of these units.
4.36       Seedling Pricing and Distribution  Policies. No uniform policy was pursued
in the project states for the pricing and distribution of seedlings. In general, the prices at which
seedlings were sold to farmers were lower than cost of production, which in all cases were very
much lower in private nurseries than Forest Department nurseries. Increased subsidies were
available to members of selected castes and tribes.



9
4.37       A positive feature of the pricing policy in all the four states is that there has been a
progressive increase in selling prices and that all planters are now charged for seedlings
distributed, even if fuU cost recovery is not attained. This promotes better species selection, care
of plants, and less wastage, while providing opportunities for private nurseries to market their
seedlings and continue their seedling production activities.
4.38       Tree tenure schemes under the project constituted an important means to benefit the
poorer sections of the population. The implementation experience of this component indicates that
it was unsuccessful. The main reasons for this include: (a) the long gestation period to obtain
benefits from tree plantations; (b) allocation of worst available land, land subject to claims by local
elite; and (c) delays in issuance of pattas due to lack of coordination between Forest Department
and Revenue Department.
4.39       It may be worth noting in this context, that the equity issues and the implementation
arrangements for other minor components, e.g. woodsaving devices, received peripheral
importance in the project and consequently their implementation was below expectations. Part of
the problem was that Forestry Department, preoccupied with its forestry activities, was ill-
equipped to fully handle equity and other social issues and the involvement of other agencies was
also minimal.                               v
4.40       Central Support Office. A sum of US$5 million was provided under the project
to establish a Central Support Office (CSO) within the Ministry of Environment and Forestry
(MOEF). This office was to assist the state governments in formulation of projects, monitoring
and evaluation of the program, provide a forum for cross-fertilization of ideas and experiences,
conduct problem-specific studies relevant to afforestation, and play a coordinating and policy
guidance role in the development of social forestry throughout India. The National Wasteland
Development Board (NWDB) of MOEF initially took over all the tasks assigned to CSO.
4.41       This component did not result in the anticipated benefits. First of all, there is little
evidence that the Office helped to improve capability of the participating states to formulate and
evaluate projects. Many of the state-level senior staff responsible for project implementation were
unaware of the unit's existence.
4.42        CSO engaged seven regional institutions to carry out monitoring, training, and
studies on such subjects as role of women and peoples' participation in social forestry. These
regional centers were carrying out these tasks in isolation and no attempt was made to feed the
results of their investigations into the policy-making mechanism of the states. As a result, they did
not contribute to improve the states' capabilities for effective project implementation. CSO
continues to suffer from an identity crisis and many of the MOEF posts established to implement
the component have now been reassigned to another department (Rural Development Ministry).
4.43       Cost Control. The project has envisaged several ways of reducing the cost of
social forestry plantation. These included reducing costly barbed wire fencing, earlier handover of
management of community woodlots to beneficiaries and decentralised seedling production and
distribution. There has been some progress on each of these themes, although degree of success
varied between states. Another source of cost reduction was the emphasis given to farm forestry
which provided the lowest cost model as set out below:
?taaaaaic                     Co pcr Iliccmia n 107z/Y rPna
RhawA        UtLar Pn,h   I limachaA Pndml|    G
-_  [ ha        _
r,ar  fomeiry         6.67           4*,631                       7.1U5
Communsy -Dootot     11.000         14.911         5.967         23.613
Rehab. of dcgadtc amas  J000        13BCd          6.023         1 .07
S9np pbianhaIo        15.900        11.276          -



10
4.44       At credit closing date, the farm forestry model has remained dominant in all states. It
is noteworthy that the involvement of 'kissan' nurseries has helped keep the cost of seedling
production close to levels predicted at appraisal.
Project Cost
4.45       At appraisal, the project was estimated to cost Rs. 3,933 million (US$328 million) or
Rs. 5,547/ha over a planting area of 708,983 ha. The actual cost of implementing the project over
1,857,000 ha of planted area was Rs. 6,762 million (US$384.5 million) or Rs. 3,641/ha,
representing expenditure per ha equivalent to 72 percent of the original estimate in rupee terms. A
combination of the extension in planted areas, the lower unit costs and the depreciation of the rupee
against the US dollar led to a cost overrun of only 17 percent. Among the states, Himachal
Pradesh recorded the highest increase in expenditure of 113 percent, followed by Rajasthan (111
percent), Uttar Pradesh (78 percent) and Gujarat (29 percent) - see Part IIUSA. These cost
increases in Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan are largely attributable to a lower proportion of farm
forestry (the lowest cost model) in the total planted area - 31 percent and 56 percent, compared to
appraisal targets of 47 percent and 66 percent respectively and to the continued heavy dependence
on the departmental production of seedlings.
4.46       As expected, about 66 percent of total costs (compared to 64 percent at appraisal)
were absorbed by plantation activities. The organization and management component absorbed 27
percent and the remaining 7 percent were distributed among research, extension, training,
planning, monitoring and evaluation, and central support office. Project costs at appraisal and
completion are given in Part IV/SA. The project cost increase (in Rupees) was caused by extended
plantation targets, escalating prices and costs, especially labor costs, and quantities higher than
appraisal estimates. Appraisal estimates of local price and physical contingencies proved to be
underestimates.
5. Project Results
5.1        Overall, the project has achieved its main objectives. However, there have been some
deficiencies in project performance. As discussed in paras. 4.6, 4.10, 4.13 and 4.22, these
deficiencies mainly relate to nursery technology, adjustment of plant densities to site factors,
community participation in the planning, establishment and management of public plantations, and
transfer of such plantations to local communities. Although there had been shortfalls in survival
rates and productivity, as well as changes in stand composition, estimated aggregate production
level is expected to match the appraisal estimate. This output level is possible because of: (a) the
increase (17 percent) in the effective production area from 550,512 at appraisal to 642,414 ha at
completion, comprising farm forestry (5 percent), community woodlot (2.4 percent) and
government wastelands (86 percent); and (b) higher than recommended initial planting densities in
the farm forestry component.
5.2        Production mix. The project objectives emphasized increasing of fuelwood and
fodder production: as shown in the following table, it was estimated that at full production 89
percent of tree biomass production would be in the form of fuelwood, and 11 percent in the forrn
of poles, small timber and stemwood.



11
Project Product Distribution
Product                         SAR  Estimate ai                 PCR  Estimate b/
Fuelwood                        89                               38
Timbers/ a1                                                     1162
'I Based on SAR production estimates at full production.
bW Based on full 32-year production cycle.
'I This includes poles, small timber and stemwood.
In contrast, the PCR estimates show that about 38 percent of biomass production would eventually
be in the form of fuelwood, and 62 percent would be in poles and stemwood.
5.3         In contrast to SAR expectations, farm forestry will not substantially contribute to
fuelwood and fodder production. In states like Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, which account for 90
percent of the total project area covered under farm forestry, the production is primarily in the form
of timber and poles, as the farmers' priority was for cash/incomes rather than for meeting the
subsistence needs of fuelwood and fodder.
Production Distribution (%) LI
i  awhr         UJW AuaIJt 0    H maaa FraeWl        Guam
l~~~~Fo    I"; ;A   Fucs  T nmeer I La   Fua*w I Timeer |A 14/  .~          F &nw X "
| tFe _ 1  Foeadd    - I   Ffc _I                      1 F e
Faorm fwstry  44    22   24    1s    73    9    52   4*      2    12    71     2
COmMur'ty    6U     6    13    36    33    30   63    l     21    37     33    la
Sm5Kand v~Anmm
A.fao.0 ofe 9rade4  90  * 9t   40    51    9     24   70     6    64     26    9
Sl" 5 antr1vons   5'  **  7   51   4a     9           .          47     33    19
Ba/r2s.c on, tee cyc a clornass Cc; c:con aoer a 3 !-,ea cycle
Th.S ,MCI.CCS S eto CO5.
The table above shows production distribution in different states by different plantation
components. It indicates that production of fuelwood ranges from  12 percent in Gujarat to 52
percent in Himachal Pradesh. Leaf-fodder production ranges from 2 percent to 24 percent between
states. On the other hand, plantations on the government public lands, generate the higher
proportions of fuelwood and fodder. This suggests that any substantial increase in fuelwood and
fodder production would have to come from public lands, in particular the traditional forest lands.
5.4          The project, over a production cycle of 32 years, is expected to generate about 34.5
million mt fuelwood, 1,178 million poles and 25.6 million m3 stemwood. Farm forestry yields are
based on hectare equivalent, i.e. the total number of seedlings issued to farmers divided by the
average number of plants recommended for planting per hectare.
5.5          Financial returns. The cash flows for various plantation models over a 32-year
production period indicate that the farm forestry model is financially the most attractive component,
followed by degraded forest lands and community woodlots. Strip plantation models provide, on
average, lowest financial rates of return due to their high investment costs. The details are shown
in Tables 1A-D to 4A-D, and the results are summarized below:



12
Plantation Type     Rajasthun    Uttar Pradeshj   Himachal     Gujarat
Pr2desh
. ............................ .(FRR-*%) .
Farm forestry              18            41            26            31
Community woodlot          14            14            21             9
Rehab. of degraded areas   16            14            15            20
Strip plantation            7            10             .             9
Costs are calculated per ha and 1992/93 prices are used for both costs and returns. Farmers' labor
inputs and products accruing to rural households have been valued at imputed prices equal to
market wage rate and output prices at stump. Returns are sensitive to the market wage per person-
day which is taken at Rs. 40 (Rajasthan), Rs. 25 (Uttar Pradesh), Rs. 30 (Himachal Pradesh) and
Rs.32 (Gujarat). Output prices are summarized in Annex 1, Table 5. Opportunity cost of land has
been estimated both for agricultural fields (Rs.1,000/ha/yr) and for grass in government
wastelands (Rs. 100/ha/yr).
5.6         Economnic Returns. An economic re-evaluation has been carried out for the project
as a whole and for each of the four state sub-projects. No benefits have been included for
production from minor components (tree fodder plantations in Gujarat, silvo-pastoral plantations in
Himachal Pradesh and household farm forestry) which together accounted for less than 1 percent
of the total planted area.
5.7         The analysis has been carried out in 1992/93 prices, with past expenditures adjusted
using wholesale price indices. Phased investment costs in financial and economic values are
shown in Annex 1, Table 1-4F. The details of planted area are presented in Annex 1, Tables 1-
4G. The cost of labor has been adjusted by a factor of 0.7 to reflect its real value. Local costs,
including labor, have been converted to border prices by applying a standard conversion factor of
0.8.
5.8         A cost of Rs.1,000/ha/yr has been included for farm forestry to impute foregone
income from crops on land displaced by block planting. Departmental plantations, which are
generally on 'wasteland', are also expected to have opportunity cost for grass on lands subject to
grazing and a value of Rs.100/ha/yr has been included in the analysis.l A 40-year period of
analysis has been used for the purpose of estimating economic rate of returns (ERRs).
5.9         The estimates of ERRs for the project as a whole is 22 percent, and for each of the
four sub-projects are 12 percent (Rajasthan), 28 percent (Uttar Pradesh), 13 percent (Himachal
Pradesh) and 23 percent (Gujarat), as compared with the appraisal estimates of 27 percent for the
project as a whole and, 17 percent, 25 percent, 34 percent and 26 percent respectively. The special
factors responsible for lower ERRs for Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh are the higher cost
increases (partly in response to higher labor costs) of 111 percent and 113 percent compared to
other states which had cost increases of 78 percent (Uttar Pradesh) and 29 percent (Gujarat). The
other principal factors which have contributed to the lower ERRs, as compared with appraisal
estimates, are the following:
1    The 'without' project situations have been considered for aU planting activities (see Annex 1).



13
(i)        lower yield expectations due to lower than expected plantation survival
rates;
(ii)       changes in species mix and rotation length;
(iii)      overly optimistic MAI estimates at appraisal, in particular in Rajasthan
and Gujarat.
Increased planted area and the higher value of the product mix were not strong enough to fully
offset these negative influences.
5.10       Sensitivity analysis was carried out for the project as a whole. The results show that
a reduction in benefits by 20 percent or 50 percent would lower ERR to 18 percent or 12 percent
respectively; while an increase in cost by 20 percent or 50 percent would lower the ERR to 19
percent or 16 percent respectively. The project is thus not particularly sensitive to variations in
either costs or revenue. The results are presented in Table 7.
5.11       Despite some of its shortcomings, the project has therefore remained economically
viable and resulted in several positive developments. It has evoked and widened the interest of the
rural population in tree planting. This is reflected in enhanced private interest in farm forestry and
nursery operations as well as increasing demand for seedlings. Further, the project has served as a
vehicle to bring about some policy changes, e.g. removal of restrictions on felling and
transportation of certain species by private growers, thus encouraging them to expand farn
forestry operations; and changes in forestry rules to enhance local peoples' participation and
introduce benefit-sharing arrangements. The project investments, among other benefits, provided
massive employment opportunities (260 million labor days) to the rural poor. Plantations
established in degraded areas have helped to conserve soil and water, as well as to take the
pressure off the natural forest resources.
6. Project Sustainability
6.1         Farm forestry, as popularized by the project, has now become a movement in several
parts of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. Its favorable impact on farm incomes has contributed to
noticeable changes in the attitudes of farmers towards tree planting. Their demand for seedlings,
especially of species which have commercial value, remains strong. Termination of subsidized
seedling distribution has hardly affected demand. The increase in incomes and capital build-up as a
result of project investments, including the subsidized distribution of seedlings in the initial stages,
have provided farmers with a means to continue and expand their farm forestry. Market saturation
for some of the species/products, however, could become a major impediment to the sustainability
of these operations. In most parts of Rajasthan (semi-arid areas) and Himachal Pradesh (hilly
regions), however, farrn forestry is not yet well established. Without continued support and
attention to technical issues which affect productivity, sustainability of the farm forestry activities
initiated through the project in these states is uncertain.
6.2        Many of the community plantations established with project support continue to be
under the control and management of the Forestry Department. Except in some parts of Gujarat,
the process of transferring the management responsibilities to the communities has been very slow.
For many plantations, benefit-sharing arrangements have not yet been worked out and the
communities themselves are unaware of their usufruct rights. Sustained management of these
plantations is not likely unless some radical steps are taken to involve the communities to have a
larger measure of responsibility to protect and maintain the established plantations. Furthermore,
in Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh where farm forestry has made little progress, private nurseries
supported under the project are not expected to continue their operations for lack of demand for



14
seedlings in the post-project period. Moreover, in the absence of follow-up projects, or continued
government funding, institutional facilities and incremental staff brought in by the project will
remain seriously underutilised.
7. Bank Performance
7.1        Recognizing the fact that the first phase project intervention was short and limited in
relation to the large scope for expanded social forestry operations in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, the
Bank agreed to a follow-on project for these states. This helped to expand and intensify their tree
planting operations and set a stage for continuing large scale farm forestry operations in these
states. Similarly, the decision to support social forestry programs in Rajasthan and Himachal
Pradesh was also timely and has helped these states to develop an organizational framework and
expertise for implementing large-scale social forestry projects. Bank supervision missions were
adequately staffed in terms of expertise required. There was staff continuity and supervision
frequency was satisfactory. The project has benefited from the technical advice given and
flexibility applied by these missions. This was manifested in the adoption of both vegetative and
physical/engineering measures aimed at soil and moisture conservation and changes in the
component targets, restructuring of the tree tenure component activities, and adjustments in
disbursement percentages.
8. Borrower's Performance
8.1        The project was executed largely as planned.  Most of the implementation
arrangements proved appropriate. The overall success of the project has demonstrated the
organizational capacity of the participating state governments and managerial ability of the forestry
personnel to promote large-scale tree planting activities in lands outside the traditional forest areas.
9. Lessons Learned
(a)    The much stronger performance of the project in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh
(which had already benefited from earlier projects) than in the other two
states, suggests that a prolonged commitment (exceeding the conventional
project period of five years) is necessary to develop the capacity to manage
large-scale social forestry projects.
(b)    Even resource poor farmers are prepared to commit land and labor to
planting slow maturing species of forest trees on a significant scale in spite
of the lack of immediate benefits. Plantings for fuelwood production, while
possibly of interest to the landless, has little appeal to landholders who can
meet their fuel needs from other on-farm sources.
(c)    Project objectives to benefit the poor could seldom be achieved through farm
forestry, which is, as evidenced by the project experience, predominantly
influenced by market forces. Plantations in community/public lands offer
most promising opportunities to realizing these objectives.
(d)    Vested departmental interests (and traditional modes of operation) are the
biggest obstacles to promoting genuine community participation in woodlot
management and to encourage the emergence of private-sector run nurseries.
The best structure for the latter is a pricing policy for seedlings which makes
nursery management pay.



15
(e)     Investment in training, especially overseas training, are only warranted if
linked to staffing plans which enable those who have been trained to apply
their newly acquired skills.
(f)     In a well decentralized country such as India, investment in the development
of specialized central institutions without hierarchial links with the state-level
organizations for project management are probably not warranted.
(g)     The project would have benefited from highly targeted short-term technical
assistance aimed at introducing improved plantation techniques for arid areas
and at developing a greater integration between farm forestry and livestock-
based farming system.
(h)     Ideally, projects of this nature should have been preceded by a forestry
sector study. It would have helped to incorporate critical policy changes
including institutional reforns. In this project, the changes in the Govern-
ment policies on timber transit, transfer of woodlot and strip plantation
to the local people, price of seedlings, etc. came when the project was well
near its completion. The project therefore did not benefit from the changes
it could have, if the changes were made in advance.



16
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
GUJARAT
1. EVALUATION OF BANK'S PERFORMANCE AND LESSONS LEARNT
Bank's  personnel   are  generally  recognized   as  highly
qualified professional experts in their respective fields.
Their  visits  to  the  project  have  always  been  very
informative,   objective   and   rewarding.          On   their
suggestions,  new  technolgoical  upgradations  and concepts
such as use of V-ditches and vegetative contour technology
for Soil & Moisture Conservations, microplan approach for
planning  at  the village  level were  introduced.   Studies
like impact assemnement, Marketing of social forestry
produce  were  initiated  and  linkages  with  Agriculture
Department   for   Forestry   Extension   and   with   State
Agriculture  Universities  for Agro-forestry  Research
were sought to be established.
We were greately benefitted by discussions and suggestions
on issues such as Tree improvement and use of better
cultivars for raising seedlings, providing extension
training  to staff,  encouragement  to Women  Nurseries  and
Wobmen's overall involvement; Participatory Management,
greater interaction between terriorital and community
forestry staff, and about Monitoring and Evaluation of the
project.  The Bank also took keen interest in having a new
strategy for pricing of seedlings evolved and involvement
of panchayats by preparation of harvesting plan of
plantations and sharing the benefits with them.
With a view to maintain consistency of opinion of the team
members  visiting the state, it was good that there was one
member,  who  continued  to  accompany  almost  all  the  Bank



17
Missions   to  the  project.       This  has  helped  maintain
uninterrupted  continuity  in  the process  of  evolution of
dialogue and discussions and therefore there were not many
issues with divergent views or disagreements.
The project started in 1985 and was scheduled to complete
in the year 1990. However at the end of 1990, considerable
amount of SDR was still unutilised particularly due to less
allocation  of  funds  by  the  State  Government  in view of
severe  drought  conditions  in  the  state  and  because  of
devaluation  of the rupee.   The Bank was very sympathetic
and considerate in giving extension to the project by three
years  i.e.  upto March  1993.   Thus  the SAR  targets which
could   not   be   achieved  within   the  period   orginally
prescribed, were not only achieved but exoeeded at the end
of the extended period.
2.   EVALUATION OF BORROWER'S OWN PERFORMANCE AND LESSONS
LEARNT
The project started in the year 1985 and came to a close in
March 1993. Originally the project was scheduled to last 5
years  i.e.  from 1985 to 1990 at an estimated cost of Rs.
1296.4  Million.      However  due  to  less  allocations  to
forestry   sector   particularly   due   to   severe   drought
conditions in Gujarat during the years 1986, 1987 and 1988,
the expenditure on project till the end of March 1990 was
only Rs.  722   M.   In terms of US$,  against  the original
allocation of US$ 92.34 M, the expenditure was US$ 38.34 M
and there was an undisbursed balance of US$ 54 M as on 31-
3-1990.      Devaluation   of   the   rupee   also   partially
contributed to the undisbursed credit.   The bank approved
our  proposals  to  extend  the  project  till  March  1993.
During this period efforts were made to utilise the
available  credit  by  boosting  up  the plantation  targets.
With further devaluation of rupee it was not possible to
utilise  the entire credit  in terms of US$.   In terms of



18
rupees,  total  expenditure  on  social  forestry  project  is
2206 Million out of which expenditure on project is Rs.
1673 M out of which reimbursement claims for the project
have processed for Rs. 1624 M.
The major activity of the project is the plantation
prograrmne under various components.   A bird's eye view of
the targets and achievements during the full period of the
project is as under
Category.      Targets (ha.)        Actual  Actual  Actual
-------------------- Achie-  Ext.%   SAR%.
SAR     MTR    Extn. vement.
Strip        15000   9116  17800  21010   118    140
VF (Irr.)     5000   3287   6050   6888   114    138
VF (RF)      20000  12235  31000  31057   100    155
R.D.A.       30400  23544  63850  63961   100    213
Fodder       10000     300   2500   1278    51        13
Fuelwood      25C0    835    850    835    98         33
plantation
Environmental  -        -       -      411    -        -
planting
R.D.F.L.     30500  16541  42060  44088   105         145
Seedling   200000 265128 730800 1040196  142          520
distribution
Total :    313400 330986 894910 1209724  135          386
It can be seen from the above table that the achievement
during the project has been substantially larger than the
SAR targets proposed in the project, barring an exception
for  the  component  of  Fodder  Plantation.    For  all  the
plantation models put together the achievement is  135% of



19
the project  extension  target.   The progress  in terms of
distribution of seedlings has been a runaway success. This
is commendable and is the result of the untiring efforts of
the field personnel engaged in implementing this progranme
and also the result of the cooperation of the people of the
State.   Credit  goes  to the farmers  of Gujarat  who have
readily accepted the tree planting programme.  The farmers
of  Gujarat  are  known  to accept  innovations  and  respond
favourably to the extension programmes.  Qualitatively, the
results  are  very  satisfactory.    The  state  looks  much
greener now than it used to look before the start of the
project. The forest department has endeavoured to maintain
high  quality  of  plantations  through  a  system  of  self
corrective  procedures.      For  this  purpose  particularly
during  the  years  towards  the  end  of  the project,    the
monitoring and evaluation  activities had been accelerated
and the results threw open certain questions which were
deliberated amongst the implementing officers to have the
shortcomings,     whatsoever,      corrected    within       the
organisation.   Evaluation  has also been got done through
external  agencies  such as the Indian Institute of Public
Opinion,  VIKSAT.   Their reports also have shown excelltnt
performance by the Gujarat Forest Department.  By and large
the quality of the plantations have been very satisfactory.
The performance of the borrower in respective components
and lessons learnt componentwise are indicated in the
following paragraphs.
STRIP PLANTATIONS
This is one of the models which is most visible to general
public and as such goes a long way to build up the image of
the Social Forestry Programme of the State.   Gujarat has
been the pioneering state in starting strip plantations as
early as the 1970 even before the World Bank stepped in the
Social Forestry Programme.   In fact this is the component
which was first started under social forestry in the state.



20
Looking to the success along the roadsides plantings, the
irrigation  department  and  the  railways  came  forward  to
spare the land for strip planting in the state in a big
way.   It  is heartening 'to note  that  against  the project
extension  targets  the achievement has been   118%.   Apart
from  aesthetic  value  of  the  trees,  providing  shade  and
comfort  particularly during  the scorching  heat  of summer
months in Gujarat to the travellers along roads and rails,
the farmers of Gujarat particularly have liked the strip
plantations  primarily  due  to  the  shelterEelt  effect  on
their agricultural crops, thus protecting their crops
against  hot dessicating winds,  though  there has not been
very  active   involvement  of  theirs  in  protecting  the
plantations.
The  Indian  Institute  of  Public  opinion  have  shown  70%
success under this component.   Internal  evaluation of one
to  eight  years  old  plantations  under  this  model  has
indicated that the survival gradually reduces from 68% for
one year old plantation downwards upto                 eight year
old plantation indicating removal of trees due to varied
reasons  such  as widening  of roads,  drought,  unauthorised
removal etc, but even then the existence of trees along the
strip has been appreciated by one and all -within the state
and outside.
The technical quality of plantations and the species mix of
the  plantations  to  suit  the people,  has  generally  been
excellent.
Farmers whose lands lie close to the strip plantations have
not involved themselves much in protecting the strip
plantations.   The endeavour of the department  in planting
grafted bor plants (Zizyphus mauritiana) along the roads
has  been  greately  liked  by  the  local  people.    Grass
collection, though free has not been a major incentive for
protection.    It  is  true  that  harvesting  of  the  strip



21
plantations and sharing the produce with the local people
would have gone to ensure better involvement of people both
in  terms  of  better  protection  and  better  use  of  the
plantations.   We hope that with our starting of harvesting
of the strip plantations now and eventually benefit sharing
with  the  Taluka   Panchayats  (Body  of  the people),  much
better  public  involvement  will  be  ensured.    People  in
Gujarat have known  that during the scarcity years,   leaf
fodder  from  the  trees  along  strip plan.tations  and  from
other plantations have helped the cattle tide over the most
difficult periods of availability of fodder.  Now since the
harvesting of the strip plantations has already started and
benefit distribution to people is to follow shortly, better
involvement of public is anticipated.
VILLAGE WOODLOTS (IRRIGATED & RAINFED)
The physical achievement under village woodlot (Irr.) is
114% of the project extension targets and that under
village woodlot rainfed is 100% of the project extension
Target.   The programnme has been  liked by the panchayats
very much.    Though  4 ha.  limit  of  afforestation  in  a
village  has  been  a  bottleneck,  it  has  not  seriously
affected  the  performance.    There  is a general  awake ing
amongst  the panchayats  regarding  flow of benefits at the
time of harvesting of these plantations.   During the last
couple of years, a substantial number of village panchayats
have received their share of the inccne and material from
village woodlots. However barring the option of harvesting
of the crop, by and large Panchayats have preferred that
the Forest Department should manage the woodlots in
consultation  with  them rather  than Panchayats  themselves
managing the woodlots.   Having received the benefits frccn
the harvested village woodlots, the Panchayats are now more
keen to participate in raising, and managing the village
w.oodlots.    Insisting  on  some  particular  species  and
participating in the decision making both in inputs and the



22
overall after care of the plantations which is an indicator
of the level of awakening about the village woodlots.  It
is heartening  to  see  that  some  village  panchayats  have
arranged on their own to manage the woodlots on sustained
basis (by selling twigs to be used as tooth- brushes etc.)
and  also  that  some  village  panchavats  have  planted  up
village woodlots on their own and harvested and used the
benefits on their own without much of intervention by the
forest  department  except  for  the  technical  guidance  and
plants from the forest department.
The experience of raising woodlot by the forest department
is quite  old.   The  first  rainfed  village woodlots were
raised in Gujarat during the year 1974 with the involvement
of Panchayat.   The initial  attempts were so pleasing  to
Panchayats that some Panchayats not only promised to
allocate more land for this purpose but also offerred to
extend  all  help  to  forest  department  not  only  for  the
purpose of the plantations such as providing water supply
for watering the plantations but also for allocating land
for the construction of residential houses for the staff
free of charge.
On  the  technical  front,   the  species  combination  and
technical  quality  of plantation  has  generally  been  very
good.   In irrigated plantation,  the species choice which
used to rest on Eucalyptus largely in the beginning of the
project, has now become more varied and many species such
as Neem (Azadirachta indica), Teak (Tectona grandis),
Desibaval (Acacia nilotica) and other miscellaneous species
and  fruit   species  have   now  been  preferred   by  the
Panchayats.   To match the species requirement to the space
required  by a plant  in  irrigated plantations,  the plant
population per hectare of area was reviewed and was
reduced.



23
REFORESTATION OF DEGRADED (FOREST) AREAS (RDA)
RDA plantations have largely been taken up in Forest lands.
These   lands   have   been   degraded   due   to   excessive
exploitation  and  grazing.    The  component  was  initially
designed for essentially three districts in Gujarat namely
Panchamahals,  Sabarkantha  and  Surat.   The  component  has
been  given  a  fair  trial  in  other  areas  under  social
forestry progranmne and it is doing equally well else where
also.
The physical achievement under this model has been   63961
ha  which is  100% of the project extension targets.
On  technological  front,  there  has  been  a  technological
upgradation in the soil and moisture conservation technique
under  this  model.    A variety  of  techniques  such  as V-
ditches,  vegetative  contours,  gradonies  contour  trenches
Sapar technique (Square mound) have been tried out. Almost
all models  did  well  but  largely  contour  trenches  or  a
combination   of   V-ditches   and  vegetative   contour  is
currently being followed.   Multicanopy approach so as to
optimise the land utilisation, has been adopted in a large
number of cases and the results are very satisfactory.
Participatory    forest    management    involving    village
protection  committees  in protecting  the  plantations  and
ultimately sharing the benefits from these plantations has
been tried out in Gujarat in over 257 villages covering an
area of  55000  hectars with good success.   Government  of
Gujarat has already come out with the policy resolution
involving  village  forest  committees  in  protecting  the
plantations.       The   concept   of   participatory   forest
management  has picked up very well particularly in those
areas having good root stock so that with some protection.
There is good natural regeneration coming up in the area
but the concept does not seem to go equally well in other
areas which are totally devoid of root stock. However the



24
concept has been found to be very effective in protecting
and managing degraded forest areas. The efforts to involve
village protection committees in protecting and managing
these areas have to continue, albeit with a little change
here and there.
Assessment  of  the  plantation  under  this  component  have
shown that success from one year to 8 year old plantations
tapers off from 69 to 22 percent.   Looking to the factors
which  were  responsible  for  the degradation  of  the  land
where  such plantations  are  taken up,  the performance  is
really good.   The species combinations to suit local needs
and the technical quality of the plantation generally has
been of a good order.
For RDA plantation, the Forest department had an innovative
scheme of social security through forest plantation wherein
local people were employed permanently to take care of the
plantations in 1.5 ha area, instead of employing people on
daily wages. In addition there is a sharing mechanism with
these people permanently employed on the plantation works.
Th;s   ideology  has  continued during  the present  project
also.   However with  the new resolution  on participatory
forest management, the social security scheme is not being
expanded.
FODDER PLANTATION
Fodder is a free demonetized commodity in most of the rural
areas in the state except during scarcity years when there
is generally a high demand of fodder. Grass starts growing
up naturally due to protection provided to the area planted
up under any component.   People collect fodder from these
areas free.   Leaf fodder is also collected by people free
of cost. Accordingly there is not much of felt need among
panchayats to spare village grazing lands for the purpose
of  raising  fodder  plantations.    Achievement  under  this



25
model has therefore fallen short of the SAR targets.
Efforts are called for to improve the performance by making
necessary changes.
FUELWOOD PLANTATIONS
The plantations under this model were being carried out in
the Panam Command area.  The scheme was reviewed during the
MTR and it was decided that the scheme being highly capital
intensive,  should  be discontinued  from  the project.   As
such no plantation under this model after the MTR have been
taken up.   The scheme stands transferred to Gujarat State
Forest Development Co. Ltd.
FARM FORESTRY
Under this programme, seedlings are distributed to people
for planting  in their  farm  lands.   This programme  is a
grand success  in the state.   Against  the SAR  target  of
distribution of 2,00,000 ha. based on a notional planting
of 1500 plants per hectare the actual distribution has gone
far beyond the expectations to a level of equivalent area
10,40,196   ha.   following   the   same  standard   of   1500
seedlings. This is also much higher than the targets fixed
(area 7,30,800 ha.) for the extended project period.   The
total seedling distribution is 1560 M.
This very cost effective component has caught up the
imagination of millions of farmers in the rural areas. In
addition to its big utility to farmers, the programme has
proved to be extremely useful to the rural masses in
meeting  their  requirements  of  fuel,  fodder  and  fruits.
Crux of the scheme has been that it has helped bringing
about the marginally productive lands under more productive
land use system and created assets worth crores of rupees.
As  essential  yardstick  to  measure  the  success  of  the



26
progranmme is number of seedlings distributed.  Though this
cannot be the only yardstick, there is ample evidence to
show that the programme has been accepted by the people in
-bE a very desirable manner.   It is not only the farmers who
are participating  in the programme but also a number of
industrial  units, educational  institutes,   Government and
Semi-  Government  departments,  religious  bodies  etc.  who
have  taken  to planting of  trees.   Not only that, people
having no land have also planted up trees on backyards of
their homesteads.
In the state 127 Tree Growers Cooperative Societies have
been set up who promote tree planting by their members.
Internal   evaluation  of   the   farm   forestry   programme
(covering the period 1980 to 1988) has shown that the major
section  of  the beneficiaries  are  the small  and marginal
farmers.  This  is the desired  target  group.   Out  of  the
total  participants  in  the programme,  small  and marginal
farmers  contributed  74% of the participant  group whereas
20% were big farmers and remaining 6% though had no land
participated   in  the  programme  by  planting  on  their
homesteads  etc.    Of  the    total  participants  7%  were
scheduled  castes  and  20%  were  scheduled  tribes.    The
figures being close to the population percentages shows an
even  acceptance of the programme by people.   73% of the
farmers planted 58% of total number of seedlings on
peripheral bunds or as row planting along water channels
etc.   Homestead plantings, which is important  for meeting
the needs of fuel, fodder and fruit at the doorsteps has
been resorted to by 10% of the marginal farmers 4% of small
farmers and 2% of the big farmers apart from almost all
persons who do not own farmlands.
There has been a wide range of demand of tree species for
supplying to people.   Planting of Eucalyptus, which during
early eightees, was as high as 84% came down to only 26% by



27
1988. Many more species such as Neem (Azadirachta indica),
Desibaval (Acacia nilotica), Teak (Tectona grandis), Jambu,
Sevan (Maligna arborea) are in great demand and the
department made endeavours to supply whatever is the most
preferred species by the people.   Fruit trees are also in
very great demand.
Survival  rate has  been  18.5%  covering  a period  1980 to
1988.   The performance is  satisfactory.   The performance
is to be viewed in eight of the fact that there were three
major scarcity years during 1986,  1987 and 1988 and also
that 60% of the quantity of seedlings have been planted on
peripheral bunds, water channels, on fallow lands and
homesteads by majority of the farmers.
The department adopted an approach that people should plant
trees on land not used for agriculture. The success of the
extension approach can be seen in light that 89% of the
farmers planted over 68% of the total seedlings on land
either  previously  fallow  or  along  bunds,  boundaries  or
homesteads.
Decentralisation of nurseries has been an innovation of the
forest department  of Gujarat State.   As early as 1976-77,
the forest department started two decentralised nurseries
first  at  Sandhana  in  Kheda  district  and  the  other  in
Panchmahal  district.    The  programme  of  decentralisation
increased so fast that in the next year itself the number
increased  almost  33  folds.    Since  then,  the  number  of
decentralised nurseries has been on the increase steadily.
By  the  year   1991-92,   there  were  6448  decentralised
nurseries raised by Kissan and Schools in addition to only
869 nurseries managed by the forest department. While the
department raised 94.3 Million seedlings for distribution
the Kissan and school nurseries raised 94.0 M seedlings.
Thus at least half of, the total number of seedlings were
being   raised   by  the  decentralised   nurseries.         The



28
decentralised nurseries are smaller in size the average
size of a Kissan nursery or a School nursery is about 15000
plants.     With  smaller  nurseries,   the  de.partment  has
endeavoured to reach the remotest parts of the state and
also has succeeded in cutting down the distance of
transport to only 6 Km.
A number of small depots (trading centres for wood) have
come  up  during  recent  years  in  the state.    Though  the
organised  marketing  system  on  proper  lines  is  yet  to
develop within  the state,  the department does disseminate
information  on prevailing market price  in the state.   A
study  given  to  Operations  Research  Group  -  a  leading
marketing  research  organisation  on  marketing  of  forest
produce is likely to be completed shortly and will address
the issues of marketing of forest produce in a detailed
manner.   After which corrective measures as required will
be taken in this direction.
With a view to improve the quality of plants for supply to
people,   the  department  has  followed  a  three  pronged
strategy.     One,   the  gradual  reduction  of  number  of
seedlings  that could be provided free to people   (From a
number of 5000 seedlings before 1985-86, the free seedlings
number was gradaually brought down to 200) Secondly,   the
price of seedlings kept on going up.  In 1992-93 the free
supply of seedlings to public was totally stopped,   with
some relaxations in certain cases;  and thirdly, improving
the seed quality being used in raising the seedlings by
establishing over 278 seedstands in the state.
Linkages with  the agriculture department  regarding  using
their T & V network for forestry extension has not
developed very satisfactorily but the attempts are on and
now there is a better interaction between the agriculture
and the forest department. We hope that this will develope
well  in future    Linkages with Agricultural  Universities



29
particularly for agro-forestry research is in the stage of
infancy.
REHABILITATION OF DEGRADED FARMLANDS
This is in true sense one of the most significant models of
the  social  forestry  aimed  at  involving  the  society  in
forestry sector and the proper model for bringing degraded
farmlands to proper land use system.  Since the productive
potential of the land for producing agricultural crop is
much less, putting such lands to forestry use is the right
approach.   The scheme is limited to the degraded farmlands
of small and marginal farmers who are generally very poor
and as such cannot be expected to invest in relatively long
term forestry crop. Payment of compensation therefore, is
essential.
In terms of the quantitative achievement of targets,  the
performance  has  been    105%  of  the  project  extension
targets.   However since the land put to use are generally
highly  degraded,  qualitative  performance  in  terms  of
survival and growth of plants are generally not good.   In
the initial years, the survival and growth of plants is of
good order but due to grazing or other pressures and lack
of  care  by  the participating  farmers,  the  survival  and
growth of plants dwindles sharply.  Forest department  has
decided to take up farmers in a more concentrated manner.
The preliminary results have shown that in mocroplanning
villages where larger number of farmers have been included
in the same village, the performance is fairly good.
Efforts are on to train more farmers and take many more
villages under the microplanning approach.
FUEL SAVING DEVICES
The department of Non-Conventional Energy had initiated a
large programme of popularising smokeless stoves in Gujarat



30
State. To avoid the duplication of initiatives, given
the  limited  state budget,  the programe was dropped
from the project.
Regarding improved crematoria, the achievement in
terms of number of crematoria installed is 30%. There
is  a  constraint  of  procurement  of  such  crematoria
because forest department is the only purchaser and
there are not many manufacturers of such crematoria.
The result  is that  the supply  against  the purchase
order of the forest department is often delayed
considerably.      However,  an  evaluation  survey  of
crematoria  conducted  for  the  earlier  phase  of  the
social   forestry   project   have   shown   that   such
crematoria are being used very efficiently. A general
feedback from Panchayats is that they are very keen in
getting crematoria installed in their villages.



31
HEMACHAL PRADESH
(a)&(b):   Part I and Part II wnich was to be written by Bank
has not been received so far, therefOre, no comments can be
offered on this.
(c)       Evaluation of the 3ank's performance by the borrower:-
The National Socia1 Forestry Project was started in
Himachal Pradesh in 1985-86 with the objective of increasing
production of forest products like fuel wood, goles, small tifber
and fodder, besides increasing the farmers income and opportunities
of -garticip'ation of female and weaker sections. It also sougnt
to strengthen the forestry institutions for facilitating
implementation  and irLDrovinq support activities includinq
research, training, extension, in:nitorisigj&evaluation. The project
has been in oporation in the .tate for over seven years. Its
Original closing date was December 3, 1990, which was extended
upto March 31, 1993.
In order to achieve these objectives several project
components were envisaged v4jh are mainly as under:-
1. 4gro-Forestry(a) Farm Forestry, (b) Private ..aste
land planting,
2. Tree Tennure for poor and landless GrOup Farm
Forestry on Govt. land.
3. Community plantation: (a) Community wocd lots-self
help (b) Community wood lots- Rainfed.
4. Departmental plantation : Rehabilitations of
degraded forests.
5. Establishment of Nurseries :Kisan and Govt.
6. Institutional Support.
Out of the above components the farm forestrv
component was being reviewed and discussed very widely. !-imachal
bbing a hilly state, the average land holding are very small i.e.
1.30 ha. The population of small and marginal farmers i.e.
holdings upto 2 ha. is 82.18% and areas under these holdings
is only 43.17% which indicates that holding are predominantely
of small size.  Trees are r;:ised by farv ers on the marginal land
only i..?. _r.3:;s-lad,  a:re-2 1i:n_ -   l_ 1 - ra,s3ed on borders and
paths of the fields. From the very begining of the project this
component remained controversial and targets had to be revised.
PeopleAparticipation in plantinq on their marginal land could
not piick-up so well, because average land hodlings are very



32
small in this state. This component in the project always
was a great strain on the forest department, since people's
participation was ncteasily forthcoming.
The second rnost important objective was to ensure
large saale people's participation in the project. But this
important objective only remained suppressed under another
objective of achieving physical and financial targets. For
achieving people's participation under this programme a
tremendous effort was required to being about attitudinal
changes in forest department field functionaries. But a department
which had a policing role since last century, it was
difficult to bring about this change in a short span of time.
Himachal being a hilly state extension acbivities
are not very simple due to poor accessibility of the areas.
Impact evaluation study has revealed that about 40-45 % of the
sampled respo7ndent either knew the project or participated
in the project. But this data is based upon a small sample
*.IvCkk  sontwt.  Aa; .zx  size.  If the optimum sam2ling intensity in
adopted, the figures will be entirely different. Similarly people's
participation could not be achieved to the satisfactory level
during project period.
Bank was always insisting on phasing out Govt.
sponsored subsidies on supply of seedlings to the farmers.
But in reality if objectives of the project were to reach
small and marginal farmers, this appears to be conflicting.
Since the per capita income of the small farmers are very low,
if the trees were to be sup-lied to them on cost, this could have
been a major disiricentive to the farmers. First midterm review of
the project was done in February, 1988 and the mid course changes
in the project implementation was discussed between the
mission and the State. The important mid term changes agr-ed
upon weres-
i) Under the component private waste land planting
Alternative I was to be phased out during the year,1988
plantinq season and only Alternative II used thereafter.
ii) To prepare note on legal status procedure and costs on
the component tree tenure.
iii) To develop low cost models for silvopastoral
subcomponent.
iv) Study on establishment of Gosadan.
Later, the component of tree tenure for poor and
landless was discontinued as it violated the Forest Conservation Act,



33
I was discuntinued.  During the extendeo perioa of tne project
from 1990-9i, the component of silvopastoral treatment of land
was incorporated. And the establishment of Gosadans were also
incorporated in the project from 1991-92. The silvipastoral
models were highly appreciated by the Bank due to its wide success.
(d)        Evaludation of borrowers performance.
Social Forestry was a totally new experience to the
Forest Department. Tha objectives, although, were very simple
but the components through which these objectives were to be
achieved were large, unexplicit, and were not Vransperent,
lesser the number of components, more is the clarity for
implementing agencies of the project. The-oratically they
were conceived well.
The Borrower could do very little when it really
came to understand these majpr problem issue, No Daseline
survey was carried in the the start of the project. It would have
been proper if the project components were tested on pilot
scale and later on picked up and modified accordingto the
actual field experience.
HP Forest Department had not undertaken any
massive extension forestry activities before this project was
launched.  Although village Development Co:munities were
constituted during the initiol stages of the project but in
reality nothing concrete could be achieved from them on the
subject of the involvement of local people. Since the targets
under departmental planting were larce enough, the extension
activities therefore, got neglected. Although the people
in hills are fully aware of the advantages of Farm Forestry
but as stated in Section (e) of the report, Farm Forestry
activities could not be brought in the Crbp Land and it
remained in marginal lands only. Closures of the plantation
areas were done in many cases withovt people's consent and this
has resulted in damage of the plantation areas by indiscriminate
grazing. Therefore, IRMPs should have been prepared in the
begining of the project for the involvement of the people.
During the extended period of the Project it was
felt by the borrower that people's participation in the programm
was not forthcoming upto the desired level. After great eelibratiorl
a totally iY-3xCs-Xt innovative scheme'Van Lagao Rozi Kamaol



34
was initiated during 1990-91, the scheme picked up its momentum
during subsequent two yeers.  The  aenk in its Oct, 1992 review
mission report conveyed many valid apprehensions about the efficacy
of the scheme & its future repercussions. Since the Project has
already culminated on 31st Ilarch, 1993, time will tell about the
repercussions of tha Scheme as ap,rehended by the  Bank.
Himachal being a hilly state, the staffing requirements
for extension activities is more than the normal terrain.   ,ctivities,
like; extension, training, publicity and rcsearch etc. although were
being given priorities during i.nplementation of the project, the
success rate is a question rnark.  Departmental plantation on wasteland
were acheived with good survival rates but the sup-orting activities
required more inputs.
The Bank was reviewino prog-ress of the project
periouicelly and valuable suggestions wc-re given by the various
Missions.  Serious efforts were tiede by the Departinent to strictly
adhere to the guidelines 9iven by t-ie 3ank from time to time.
(e)       The relationship of the bank and the department
was extrerr,ely cordial and there were no major hastles during the
inplementation of the Project.
(f)        USAID Particupated as co-financer upto 1990 and they
provided very useful financial and technical help during that
period.
al   i~ Conservator of Forests,
Himrachal Pradesh, Shimla-1.



35
RAJASTHAN
Summary and Conclusions
1.    It is essential to evaluate the impact of various project activities carried out since the starting
of the project. Most important is the effect of motivation on departmental personnel and the
community at large for Joint Forest Management (JFM). The effect of additional production of
fodder and fuel on the economy is also assessed.
2.    The project was designed to grow fuelwood and fodder to meet the needs of the rural
population. Fodder supplies increased substantially. Grasses and leaf fodder was distributed to
poor sections of society free of cost. Waterponds were dug in silvipastoral plantations to harvest
and store water for drinking by animals and improve moisture regime for plants.
3.    In 1990-91, Government issued suitable instructions regarding people's participation,
constitution of VFPMCs (village forestry protection committees), sharing of forest produce,
relaxation in rules governing cutting of trees on private lands and their transit to the market centers,
pricing of seedlings to be distributed as a part of farm forestry, etc. As a result of all these
measures a climate has been created in the state where individuals, communities, voluntary
agencies, etc., are coming forward in raising the plantations in consultation/collaboration with the
Forest Department.
4.    The project objectives were highly oriented towards environmental improvement,
ecological stabilization and conservation of important natural resource base. The plantation activity
itself has generated three hundred lac mandays for the rural poor, improving their income.
Particular attention has been paid to the needs of the women and other disadvantaged groups.
While sharing the forest produce from the plantation areas, the weaker sections of the society are
given a preferential treatment.
5 .    The afforestation activity under the project has created beneficial effect on agricultural
production by releasing more cowdung for farm yard manure, improving moisture regimes and
sub-soil water table, reducing soil erosion and effect of desiccating winds. The increase in
agricultural production together with increase in forest produce raised on farrnlands has enhanced
the income of the farmers and community at large which in turn has led to the economic growth of
the rural areas.
6.    The activities like strip plantations, rehabilitation of degraded forests and development of
wastelands have proved to be an attempt to bridge the gap between supply and demand of the
forest produce. Bulk of the population in the rural areas are poor farmers who do not purchase
firewood and other forest produce. Most of the fuelwood, lops and tops and fodder would be
consumed by the tree-growing households, substituting part of the supplies of firewood and
fodder, otherwise collected from the forests.
7.    The intangible benefits to the society in terms of better environment and improved health
could not be quantified. The value of benefits such as improvement in agricultural production and
other secondary benefits are expected to be much greater than those revealed by the project.
8.    Rajasthan has definitely moved ahead of other states in participatory forest management in
the project. Institutional reforms have included the removal of restrictions on felling and transit of
the major social forestry tree species, institutionalizing procedures for people's share in forestry
produce and their participation in the management of afforested area, and drawing up concrete



36
propoals for the carrying out of micro-planning exercise.
9.    The result of a study funded under the project revealed that while social forestry provided
employment and income opportunities for women in the traditional areas of nursery raising, tree
planting, watering, etc., these opportunities could be enhanced by widening women's participation
in other social forestry activities like fruit collection, seed/tendu leaves, etc. The study
recommended that women should be represented in traditional decision-making bodies like the
village panchayats; women's groups, like women's cooperative societies, should be given priority
in allotment of revenues from forest and wastelands developed for social forestry; and women
should have the right to own land.
10.   The voluntary agencies and non-governmental organizations have been observed to play an
effective role as catalysts for involving people to participate actively in the development process of
promoting social forestry. However, their performance was far from satisfactory for the following
reasons:
(a)   One of the major problems faced by the NGOs is not one of participatory
development but more of participatory management. It is generally observed that it is easy to
involve people in community action for programs like wastelands development and afforestation,
but it is an extremely difficult task to organize them in community resource management. This
results in the plantation not being adequately protected from cattle grazing and other such hazards.
(b)   The controversy of agriculture versus forestry is another impediment affecting
successful promotion of afforestation programs. The question whether agriculture is economically
viable or forestry has better economic advantages, affects NGOs efforts in making people adopt
forestry as a profitable proposition. People are not convinced about the sustainability of the
forestry sector vis-a-vis agriculture.
(c)   It is paradoxical to note that number of NGOs working mainly for rural
development are found to be urban based. Many have their head offices in the district or state
capital headquarters. There are others whose headquarters are even located in Delhi. Such
organizations have a great scope to procure a lion's share of the government grants which are spent
on non-field activities items like maintenance of office, vehicles and arranging meetings.
(d)   Most NGOs have no definite mechanism for monitoring and evaluation of the work
through some independent agency.
(e)    Barring few, there are no organizations which are truly engaged in meaningful
micro-planning activity. They have neither the infrastructure nor technically competent persons to
design micro-plans scientifically and they have no proper mechanism for successful
implementation.
11.   An analysis to assess the financial viability of the project as a whole was carried out and
revealed that project cash flow for individual project components was quite positive and the internal
rate of return for the project cash flow was 12.92%. The project cash flow includes costs incurred
by and return accruing to project authority and other participants. It also takes into consideration
value of all forest produce. Based on these assumptions the National Social Forestry Project has
been viable.
12.   In addition to this, benefit/cost ratio has been calculated by discounting the total costs and
benefit of the project life (32 years) at 12%. The benefit/cost ratio for the project is 1.1 1.



37
UTTAR PRADESH
Inferences, Conclusions and Summary
1.    The program has been a mixture of success and failures. Social Forestry Program has
proved to be a dynamic phenomenon gaining momentum in a number of directions which was not
anticipated originally.
2.    On the positive aspects the project has resulted in successful plantations in large area in
private farms, community and public lands. The flexibility built into project design and its
implementation facilitated refocussing of policies and targets which were in consonance with
emerging trends manifested in the increased emphasis on farm forestry, the creation of linkages
between Forestry and Agriculture Extension and establishment of decentralized nurseries. The
Social Forestry Department has undergone transformation and have definitely become more
responsive to the needs of the farmers. An ongoing detailed scrutiny of current strategies is also
gradually enabling the corrective measures to be taken.
3 .    On the other hand, the failure can be narrated as the absence of concrete ways for local
participation. In absence of concrete package in the project for generating the local participation,
the participation did not materialize in the beginning of the project. Secondly, technical
recommendations were not adequately developed to meet the emerging requirements of planting
under varied conditions which was the special needs for the small farmers. It further did not
generate models for sustained production in the long run. Again benefits could not be distributed
equitably amongst different segments of the population with the result that fuelwood and other
needs of the poor could not be projected or met to the extent anticipated. Further, the
environmental aspects were neither emphasized nor addressed adequately resulting in abject failure
on this score. Support activities in shape of Research and Training have proved to be a great
laggard hampering the quality of extension.
4.    The most important inference which has been learnt is the need for regular monitoring of
emerging trends and existing objectives and aims. Newness of the experiences and unexpected
emerging directions highlighted these aspects. However meticulous planning may be done at
project design, new trends shall have to be considered as the project advances as has occured in
this phase, unprecedented demand of farm forestry, and then the sudden decline in the demand of
Eucalyptus seedlings. Corrective measures were initiated and implemented in the shape of tree
tenure schemes, involvement of NGOs microplanning etc., but these are not sure solutions and
require an ongoing systematic search for answers and regular reassessment in the future. For the
present probably the solution may be found partly in restructuring of the department. The new role
of the Forest Corporation will have to include a new thrust on research areas encompassing forest
genetics, tissue culture, embryo genes, nursery technology, cloning technology, etc. issue of
biodiversity, and the use of video technology for imparting training and proper communication for
motivation of the target group. People's behaviour is a key to success for such programs and it
has to be changed through regular reassessment of trends and sustained efforts, villages as eco-
development unit for treatment, and myriads of other things interlinked with success of the
project. The issues raised can be answered only through sustained commitment and intensive
efforts by the Bank, Government and the Forestry Department in general. Short cuts do not exist.



.36
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Crdit Title                                              Purposc                             Year ofd
App .,J
Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry     To increase the supply of fuclwood in rural areas, to       197S            Completed
Projcct (Cr9'5-lN)                provide poles. bamboo, small timber, fodder grass and
minor forestry products and strengthen the social
forstry organization to cJrry out project works.
Gujarat Social Forstry Project                               *                                 1979           Completed
(Cr.961-IN)
West Bengpl Social Forestry                                                                   1982            Completed
Project (Cr.l1'lN)
Jammu and Kashmir and                                        *                                 1982           Completed
Haryana Social Forestry Project
(Cr 128lIN)
Kamataka Social Forstry          To augment fuel-ood supplies in priority rural areas         1953           Completed
Project (Cr.1432-IN)              and semi-uroan areas and to provide small timber,
fodder and other related forest products.
Kerana Social Forestry Project    To increase the supply of fuclwood in rural areas, to       1984            Completed
(Cr. 151441N)                     provide poles, bamboo, small timber, fodder grss and
minor forestry products and strengthen the social
forestry organization to carry out project works.
Nlaharashira Forestry Project     To support restructuring and rationalization of the         1992            On-going
(Cr.2328-IN)                      States forestry department and its investment
programmes. and to roster a grmter role in forestry
and developmcnt for village communities. non-
goenritment insttutions. cooperatives and the pnrvate
scctor.
Wcst 1cnpal Forestry Project      To support Goserrmcnt of Wcst Bcngal Forestry               1992            On-going
(Cr.2341-IN)                      Deselopmcnt Programme through installation of a
sustainable protcction systcm in all regions of the
State. enhancement of forest productivity and
conscrvaton of biod,versmti
2. Project Timetable
Item                                        Dale Planned                   Date Revised                 Dalc Actual
Preriation                                                                                                  1984
Appraiul                                                                                               Oct/Nov. 1984
Ncgotiion                                                                        -May 6-16 19l5
WIsard Approval                                                                 J- une 18 1985
Crudit Signature                                                                 -                      Scpt. 24 1985
Credit Crffeciveness                                                           b- Feb 24 1986
Ci,ng DI)ate                                 II IMC. l'YJO                  I Dcc. 1991               March 31 19)1
31 M;trrh 1992



39
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative in SDR million
IDA Fiscal Year       Appraisal            Actual            Actual as a % of
Estimate                             Appraisal Estimate
1985
1986                     2.7                  10.7                  47
1987                     56.9                 24.7                  49
1988                     84.7                 43.1                  51
1989                    123.1                63.3                   51
1990                    153.1                79.8                   52
1991                    166.4                106.3                  64
1992                    166.4                140.7                  85
1993                    166.4                155.4                  93
1/ As part of the funds redeployment exercise in December 1991, SDR1 1.0 million was cancelled. The cedit closed
on March 31, 1993. Fmal disbursement from the credit was made on April 6, 1993 utilizing the full revised amount
of the credit of SDR155.4 million.



4. Project Implementalion
A. Physical Targets and Achievemen(s
R&sAmm                                  Unn, Pfd.sh            t&dW Ftd                                           tl                                                                 Taw
APvuMt    ,MTn"I 11U r           ACk, './ Apjs,,         MMfi E 1awan        AiW  A44imlsod           MM   E.SmoIcn        A t   A0k M8A            M1I3  ht E.,J4ml     Ac8t ApWWIW Tmt  Exuriml                       At
A. Ft3AtTA1IN ACMTY5V Oma)
1. &7-rsty
i.,-  cresey           13.0.3     62.635    75.700     a3.303    134,000   191.667   21 305(   236.7130    53.3313      37.000      46,300     50,401    200r00      2)5.128    730,.00   1.040.196    467.000    556.433   1.072.850   1.410.657
,6o6 ) I55 3)                  455 i(    td! 71)               47 4)    (/O 9)       (4/ o0                 (31.5)     43317)      (63.61)                (63.6)      (366)      (65.9)                  (72.8)      (76,0)
6-.:141 Wlksl-                                   .          .         -                                     1-(163      13.000      16.000     13.297      30.500      16.541     42.060      44,068     43,500      29.541     58,060      57.385
a   Pv P'IONA)                                                                                                                       (104)       (B.1)      (9.7)                   j4.7)      (3.6)       (6.1)                  (3.9)       (3.1)
3, Dr.s. (wahd) l        .3.*000   4.000      4.500     3.570                                                     .          .                                            .                               4,0        41.w        4.500        3.510
(3;3)                (33)       (24)                                                                                                                                             (0.6)                   (0.3)      (0.2)
2. C-.ro" Was63tte6   FPMiw
C A3-'.T7              5.(63      6.924    16.600    19.477      14.000     10.117    l3,900    27.294    41.030       49.000      58.400     7a.946      20,000      12.235     31.000     31.468      t0.000      78.276    124,900     157.185
vi=ts I'l(lol(e0         (41)                (12.1)    (13.0)      (a6)                  (6.5)     (62)    (ii 3)                   (3t.3)      (481)       (6.4)                    3.5)      (26)       (11.3)                  (85)        (8.I
C_tit7                     -          -          -                    -          -         -                    -                       -       1.300       5.000      3.287       6,050      6.888       5.000       3,267      8.050       .1 in
(0.6)      (1.6)                  (0.7)       40.6)       (0.2)                  (0.4)       P41
T-.. F00w                  -          -         -          -          -         -          -                    -           .                              10.000        300       2.500      1.278      10.OO        300       2.5w     .  1.270
P  xJ,im                                                                                                                                                    (3 2)                   (0.3)     (0.I2)       (1.4)                  (0.2)       0.07,)
3 G.-uwit  W4stdw6 )9Wai
t    A.An  ofo)        20.000     16.653    37,150    39'414                20.000    35,700    44.522       5.0S,       9,0(0      12.785     13.710      30.400     23.544      63.850     63.96f      55.400     69.197    149.485      161.607
07&2;9I  '-  sts       t16 6)                (27.2)     (26 4)                          (12 4)    (13 3)      (4 5)                  (6 3)      (6.3)       (9 7)                   (7.1)      (5.3)       (7.8)                 (10.1)       (6.7)
SvxPPaioocn             4.30       2.122      2.000     2.478       740      4.370      9.800    24.414                                                    15.000      9.116      17.600     21.010      20.040      15,608     29.6W       47.902
(36)                 (1.5)      (7        (0.5)                (3 4)      (7.3)                                                    (4.63)                  O 0)       (1.7)      (2 8)                  (20)         (2.6)
F,e~.ood                              *                    -                                          -         -                      -           -        2.500        635        850         835       2.500        635        650          835
P>tL>                                                                                                                                                      (0,)                    (0.1)     (006)        (0.3)                 40.05)      40.04)
4.O00      7.565       5900                      -    -           -                         4.000       7565        5901
(4.9)      (3.6)                                                                            (0.5)       (0.3)
4. Tom Tao.* - 1ot   r >Lan s
svr, Pjrt9                       .         .               .       1.210      )                                                                                ,                                          1.210
(O6)      )                                                                                                                            (0.2)
rSWXAt &oL,             7.500        950       850        !46    11.000       1,500     6,670       935        633        633      10.500         716                                                    19,333       3.283     10.020       2.497
Fvn.r 3iatstr            (62)                 (06)       1 6)      tii B)                t2 3)     (03)       (0 7)                  (6.6)       (0.4)                                                     (2.7)                  (3.2)       (.1)
1)3M0b.                    . P                   .xr  -  -   -      uO        )                                                                                -                                          1,000       4
to6)      )                                                                                                                            (O 1)
T," Am Killed        1im.a33    94.0b7   136,830   149.145   161.111,      221,3.64   261.1;0   333.,3b   112,813    112.b31    153,550    164.2A1       3133.410    3X)0("      054.9 10   1.20t3724    7303.9b3    765,560   1,474l,f    1.57,012
(1333)              (1(t3)     ((3o.)     (3lo))               (3IOU)     (3il3)    (3393)                  (IOU)      (313)        HAI 33)               ("""))    (II33)       (13                    (100)       (3(
IL FUEL SAIANG tOXFS (Na)
-  e:C,,rena.Jj           160         -        179        162         -                                         25                    35b         169       1.000                  1.550        560
_71.t.1               15.311     10.701      10,000                 105W=    116.488           .           .
T.Ts-   e.i t '.'TF,l, te  .O!CCI *41 33 o3(s. .3e1  ,j n F.D-_, I
.--t :.'C 3t7 S       .:3 11   n._rrrae,rtCecemcs, 1-O
n fl.., j:t r.e. .: _r. r:-s.r; 3,3e.g c.    n 31, 33. lut. ItAl   Ac rt.-...'xl JI tej5 bUACA cni secd .pg. .urh --U. M4h    at 4dted by ,vreommended seedrg pe3 f ha



B. Staffiitg, Citil WVorks and Velicles - Plkysical Targets and Achievements
Rapasthar                             Ular PIradesh                        ihknchl Pradesh                                Gula
Ahppsa        Sandion       Aclual      A4s          Sandion       Aduc         Appal        Sandwt         Acual        Appaisil    Sudm             Acal
EstWnie                                 EstMte                                 Esinule                                   Estimte
1. bag(o )
Chief Conservatorof Forest            I             1             1                                                   -                           -            -             -
Add Chid Conservalor o Forest         -                                        2           2            2             1             1             1             1             1            t
ConsrvatordoForest                    1             1             1           9            6            6             1             1             1            2             -
Deputy Consvator ol Foresl            10           18            18           28           19           19            5             3             3            14             1
Asst Conservaloro Forest              6             6            6            88           54           54           41            38         t  38            9             -
Range Forest Oticer                   60           63            63          712          444          444           84            74            74            37            37            10
DeputyRange                           22           13            13          343          152          152           79            20            20            -             -             -
Forestar                             137          145           145         1,329         494          494                          -                          22            32           15
SocialFornstryWorles(guwrd           657          486           486         1,013         540          540          364           213           213            78           129           128
Ohwrs (Accountants,etc.)              -             -                                                                                                                         l-  -  -  6  61               i
TOTAL                                e94          733           733         3.524        1,711        1,711         575           350           350           163           261           213
2. CM Waft (no.)
No-Anesidential Bukfngs              39                          31          984                       806           29                          27           113                         73
Residmtr al9u5dgs                    198                        141         1,000                      945          582                         BOM           716                        488
3. Vdie  n.
Cal                                   2                          3            6                         13           6                           5             6                           4
Jeep                                 27                          29           51                        85           34                          26            26                         14
Tnuck                                 20                         14                                                  11                          7             2                           2
Bus/aVa                               2                          2            6                         21           25                          11            3                           1
Tractor                               52                         37          1 13                      157                                       -             2                           2
Puty Van                              2                          2
Motorcyde                             92                         92          260                        -           191                                       132                         15
Bicyde                               800                        800                        -                   -



S. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
(Rp million)
Rajasthan                     (Jitm Pfadeh                   Wonc      desh                                                  AlGuj  A Foa Stdes
Appaisai1/         Actual?'     Apprais            Actual?'     Appraisiy          Ac.WZ/       Appasa             ActuJ        Appisay           AtuWil
1. Organization & Management          89.5           155.7           641.2          1,201.5          158.5            356.6           119.9           111.4         1,009.1        1.8252
(174)                           (187)                           (225)                            (95)                          (181)
2. PhysicalTagets                    266 3           609 6           753 8          1,547.9           365.8           826.1         1,151.0         1,504.5         2,538.9        4,488.1
(229)                           (205)                           (226)                           (131)                          (177)
3 Research                             2.8             8.9             8 1             27.5             7.1             3.3             5.1             7.4            23.1           47.1
(318)                           (340)                            (46)                           (145)                          (204)
4. Ejoension                          12.1            19.3            80.1             16.6             5.6            11.8             3.6   '        31.5           101.4           792
(160)                            (21)                           (211)                           (875)                           (78)
5 Trining                              9.4            10.2           116.3             41.2            15.4             5.8             8.9             8.9           150.0           66.1
(119)                            (35)                            (38)                           (100)                           (44)
6. fiing                               -                               4 2              7.5             -               -               2.0             2.5             6.2           10.0
(178)                                                           (125)                          (161)
7. Monitoring& Evaluation             11.8            22.0             7.9             21.3            20.5            15.2             6.0             7.4            48.2           65.9
(186)                           (270)                            (74)                  .        (123)                          (143)
AJ Four States                       391.9           825.7          1.611.6         2,863.5           572.9         1,218.8         L,296.5         1,673.6         3,872.9        8,581A
(211)                           (178)                           (213)                           (129)                          (170)
8. Central Suppol Otfice                                                                                                                                               60.3          180.3
(29q9)
TolFPmoj.dCosts                      391.9           825.7          1,611.6         2.863.5           572.9         1,218.8         1,296.5         1,673.6         3,9332         8,761.
(211)                           (178)                           (213)                           (129)                          (172)
Note: Figwes wlhin brackets kikate actual cost as a percentage of appraisal esbnate.
2: hckidn physcal and pnce contingenaes.
AcUa cost as on Match 31. 1993.



43
B. Project Financing
Planned                                                 Actual
(Credit Agreement)
SDR million                      (%)                   SDR  million                      (TO)
IDA                                     166.1                        SO                        155.4
USAID                                    80.5                        24                        n.a.
Domestic Funds                           83.6                        26                        n.a.
Total                                   3302                        100
./ Contributed by GOT and State Governments of Rajasthan, Uttar Pradcsh, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat.
2/ Figures not available at time of PCR preparation.
Souce                                            Planned             Revised Allomtion              Final                     Fienal
(Credit Asemernt)        December 5, 1991              Amount                  Percentage
...................SDROOC.....................
xpenditure/Categon
MA Credit
Field activities                                  119.900                 118,900                   120,S67                    73
Incremental staff salaries                         13500                   13,700                   12.361                      7
Travel allowances                                   5.400                   3500                     3.255                      2
Gvil works                                         12,300                  10.000                    9.679                      6
Vchicics, equipment and furniture                  2.000                    3,500                    3.309                      2
*Vchicle operating cost                             2.200                   2.300                    2.625                      1
Cunsultanz services, training                      3.0(0                    3500                     2.953                      2
Unallocated                                        8.100                     -
Difrerence due to cross exchange rates                                                                 351                     02
on special account disbursements
ToLal Di6bursementa                                                                                 155.400                    93
Cinccllafion (December 5 1991)                                            11.000                    11 000                     7
TOrAL cRniDrr AmoLotr                             166,400                  166,400                  1.6,400                    100



6. Project Results
A. Direct Blenetits "
unit             Rajasthan               uttar Prm*csh            iliwchal Predesh               Cujarat                      Total
AAppraisal       PPi AAfcaisal             PCX      Appraisal         PCa Appraizat             pci        AFpraisal         PCl
Estimate     Estimute     lstimate     Estimate     Estimate      Estimate     Estim_te     Estimate       Estimte       Estimte
fuetwood                      Et           491,000    5,340,000       740,000    8,770,000                       -       3,900,000   13,950,000      5,131,000    28,060,000
* Conifer                     et                                                                 26,200      760,000                       -            26,200       760,000
- Iroaditaf                   at               -           *                          -       2,700,000    5,650,000           - :.        -        2,700,000      5,650,000
Poles                         no.        6,700,000   61,000,000   14,8OO,000  578,450,000           -     35,350,000   22,000,000  503,000,000    43,500,000 1,177,800,000
small tieber                  a3            38,300                    89,000          -             -           -              -           -           127,300
3aaboo                        no.                                         -           -                          -       6,800,000  ,541,360,000     6,800,000   541,360,000
Crass                         Mt             8,110    2,420,000        67,000    4,170,000      loO,OOO    4,800,000   82,000,000    1,900,000    82,255,110    13,290,000
Leaf fodder                   Mt               800    1,106,000           -      2,941,000    2,900,000    2,660,000       860,000    1,860,000      3,760,800     8,567,000
Dry fodier                    at                                          -           -             -            *          50,000         *            50,000          -
Steswood                      *                -        407,600           -     15,390,000      520,000    5,800,000           -      4,050,000        520,000    25,647,600
Edible fltower                 t                            -           8,000                                                                           8,000
Fruit (inrl. betr)            Mt            12,000      305,300        5,600    1,740,000                 -                 13,350    2,620,000        30,950      4,665,300
:ee  seeds                    at                           -             -            -             -           -            2,250                      2,250
Ridi leaves                   at                             -           -                   -      -                          304                        304
Seed pods                     at            59,000      474,600                              -            -                    -           -            59,000       474,600
fallen wood/tope              at             8,200          -             -                  -                  -                                       8,200
oilseeds                      Mt                                        5,000                       -                                                    5,000
Cocoos                       '000           40,000          -          60,000         -                          -             -           -           100,000          -
Other tree by-products        Mt            40,000          -             -           -             -            -             .                        40,000          -
N       of beneficiaries                                                                                                                                6 - 8             10
(ailtion)
Emptowent geerated
- Ir  plantation           an-days                                                                                                                100 miLlion   142 million
- In forest departments      jobs                                                                                                                       5,156         3,007
PCR prcoduction estimates are based on full 32-year production cycle. however, no regeneration or replanting is assumed. Production estimtes at appraisal are
not based on full production cycle and therefore not directly coaparable with PCR estimates.



B. Economic Impact
Rajasthan                    Uttar Pradesh                Himachat Pradrsh                    Guierat                         Total
Appraisal         PcR          Appraisal         PCR          Appraisal        PCI           Appreisal         PCI          Appraisat         Po
Estimate       Estimate        Estimate        Estimte        Estimate       Estimte         Estimte         Estimate       Estimte        Estimte
Eecaic Rate of ltetun tS)                  17              12              25             26              34             13             26              23              27             22
Assumpt ions:
Project life (years)                       30              40              30             40              30             40             30              40              30             40
Steadard econersion factor                 0.8            0.8             0.8             0.8            0.8            0.8             0.8             0.8            0.8            0.8
Conversion factor for uaskilled            0.7            0.7             0.7             0.7            0.7            0.7             0.7             0.7            0.7            0.7
labor
C. Financial Impact
finewias late of letum of
Nlode (I)
1. Fars forestry                          23.5            18.4           58.0            41.3           33.8           25.7            31.6            31.1
2. Conmmity Woodlot - Rainfed             t2.8            14.0            19.2           13.8           35.3           20.9           20.1 )
3. ComiuIty Woodlat - Irrigated            .                .              -                                             -             34.8             9.2
4. lehabilitation of Degraded             31.4            15.7                           13.9           22.4            14.9           15.7            19.9
forest Areas
5. Strip plantations                  37 - 23.1           6.6          10   10.9         10.2             -              -             5.9              1.7



46
D. Studies
Monitoring and Evaluation Studies
1. Gujarat (The M&E unit has carried out the following studies:)
1. Survey of Strip plantations (1980-87)
2. Survcy of village woodlots (1985-90 Irrigated and 1980-87 Rainfed)
3. Survey of Rehabilitation for Degraded Forests (1980-87)
4. Survey of 1983/S9 Plantations
5. Preparation of volume table of Casuarina equisatifolia
6. Survey of Farm Foresz;  (1980-8S8
7. Review of Plantation Registry (1980-81)
8. Survey of Rehabilitation of Degraded Farmlands (1985-90)
9. Price Bulletins of SF Products (1990-92)
I*. Himachal Pradesh (Mf&,E unit undertook the following investigations/studies:)
1. Farm Forestry Surveys
2. Community Woodlot Surveys
3. Strip and Govcrnment Land Plantation Surveys
4. Institutional Forcstrv Survey (1991)
5. Semi-annual Price Collections
6. Evaluative Studies on:
(a) Fuelwood Saving Devices (1988)
(b) Extension and Publicity (1991)
(c) Kissan Nurser' (1988)
(d) Seedling Pricing (1990)
(c) 'van Lagao Rozi Kawas (1992)
([  Silvi-Pasturc (1992)
7. Wood Balincc S(uds hy thc Univcrsity of Himachal Pradesh
8. Impact Evaluation Studv
Ill.   Studies Contracted/Undertaken by UP SFW under WB Project Funds
1. Women's Role in Forcstry (Institute of Social Sciences, Allahabad), 1990
2. Cost of Seedling Production by Species Group (by D.C. Pande), 1990
3. Impact of Social For -,try on Rural Population (by Association for Rural Devclopment. Energy and
Environment, Lucknow, July 1l>0
4. Kh.adar/Usar Land PlAntation - Consultant Group of Foresters - 1990
Additionally, with USAII) support, the following studics were contracted/undertaken in UP:
1. Marketing of Social Forcstry Products - Operations Rcscarch Group, Bandu, 1990
2. Cout Bcncfit Analysis of Agro-Forestry, 1990
By CN()/NWDF1/(;0l:
1. Survival or Agro-Forcetry Scedlings - by Agricultural Finance Consultants, Bombay, 31 Decembcr
I 99()



47
IV. Studies Contructed/Undertaken by Rajasthan Government
Studies by GOR:
1. Seedling Pricing Study (1990)
2. Household (Tree Tenure Study to determine procedures for allocating state lands to individuals for
tree planting) 1990.
Studies by USAID:
1. Marketing of Social Forestry Products (1990)
2. Women's Role in Force'ry (1990)'
CSO Studies
1. Role of Voluntary Agencies in Social Forestry - Agricultural Finance Consultants, 1990
2. Study on Farm Forestry and Its Effcct on Crop Production, AFC, 1990.



7. Slatus of Corenants
f        OS aS r                                                                 ttwo ofd                                               O_ LOW
"tsr"" ttOV CninpSNm                                                        CD. " '
p l AGR MM   GOIP Utaidd *ie ai  carge ktw seecns Io 15 pts by 19F7 and 20 Paist by               ORG                       1                                                                UtJp_d towlsd It 1M2.
190.
D 3.O1C.OCA  Oono_er ta MOM svdbla oAd of proc ld  CO Crdtt acn ntA *kAei to                       ORG                      1
SOA 24.5t0,0l0 lo le.
hP 3 Ct DCA    GO Pa keres IDA proposed siructwe of Ctrial Forestcy Olganization.                 ORG                       1                        06/30                    04P6W      t     AP (kwaefl NWOS) l
respons    An AdM
Secrelery hes VteW rgulai
le 304 OtCA    GO  t  stfifon by 4.3CM a"   60 by 10.31 Si. Ue poscin of Head Of Ute Cenlri       MAN                       I                                                 04/l0*
Social Foresly orgarazeL
nP 3 Of OCA    GC1 shal maktiah lheseaket poston cg Hed CE Ot  Cenral Socida Fofestry            MAN                       2                                                 1/31,a6        DIGF (Morortj  rat wesnot
Ck pgaRGaon AM those CE Cnl Plojea Ecoe.ontul Jnd fepwy GfIMonimg.                                                                                                          IoC IhC proje
m? 4 O1A2 DCA   GOCP st caus Ns dePms an Other agencies responaie kl Parn A of the                fFIN                      2                        03/31)92        1        12131/91       Oevtdua k0 199142.
proaelo to ke         4e VO ea lar When raw fnuts aiws each FY cented copes dE
itaew accowLs and Ioncw stateawes.
hP 4 0152DCA   GOP sha cr N5 deulmeds And elW agencIes to knqlh IDA immedalely                    ADT                       2                        03/31)92                  1/31191      OGedue ic 199142.
t.pon k.auaor report an eudned accouis " laania swerenis.
eP 5H_2.CIAPA  GOP sha khlor iom n on prtgee wasitnd Planting schemes. tree lease                 ORG                       2                                                 12/31M5
scrAmos. corneidl anaged woos  am tre lOOe pintruons to cove
proce&aes lor selecig  paiipants. pertcpans uigris and responsrbeties. etc.
nP SK2 02.PA    AMW SOw  yoer d pirMg bit ne lter rnsn 3.31.80. G00P  noeakes to carty a          OFG                      I                                                 03/3119
cia ret*ew oC as sub-project _h brower ard 10k
fP 542 03 PA  Cnre a you. HP eA  .~  IDA tes.As   toe MIS E d ks ub-project.                       ORG                      2                                                                A comtt    a report In 119-
90 has bean pubated
HP SH2 04.PA    At tau  very hwo yers. GOHP wl etlselupd.sii us wood balance study.               STO                      2                        0b/30f92                 11/3010        One y done nd _pAtie
nP Sn.2.05 PA    lr 12.1.5S. G0HP sa  miake artgaem  ns to ens. eat thra Deponmen oa              ORG                       2                         .                       12/31)05       Orders hate been b4u  th0u
Forests and  fepartmnt CE Agitciahr.a Eaenson Servces coopeate to prosoe                                                                                                     coordintion is Warabig.
etaws,on sewce to rmn.
"? Sn.2 OSAPA  GONP sea  Ht  VW a single St CE ad.tastrate comand lfcd eld staff is               MAN                       1                        01/11191
amsdaanJ hom cicle conservatrY   down.
hW Sn2 0016PA  GOP sa  re tat Sueerng Commttee head by Ule Stale fofest Secretary                01t                       1                           -
metets q"nrty to dOus ac assign wwr pirC4,as La hkW s1C.
ra; Srb2 0OPA    GOlP sh  mintain coordion cometntees " socl otrestry sctibes.                    OflG                     2
nP Set2.10.PA    Sy 3.31.1. GlHP ta carry ow. a study Co ut organtbonal issues hisld toxest       ST0                       I                       063*                      031/TUG        See IHP S82.2OWPA.
oeparmnents.
nP Sn.711.PA    GOlP sa carrY oi a cost recovery sudy regditg socia kmesty scedings               SID                      1                        03/31191                  03V31AS
C c.is tor Tye cE Covetant:                                            2 Codes Irx Lmef oC Coaniatce
AZT - Au: t                       OAG - Ougawalonl                   1 * Fudy Conmpbed
ZFY - C:st Recovery                     RPT - on.                    2  Pimlthy Coe;*&d - not aiectstg Mnpetrieiltt
Fr. - F.nsjt                      STD - Sawes
M4AI.* - ,sa;emet & StsUikt       TCN - Tezhvscai



Section5         Sunmny DOecr t                                                                      Type of                    Leve                        Rceised                    Olinal         Remarks
C'1T9d                   o    2                    Compliance                Comphance
ComPLasce  /                     Dale                       Dale
GJJ 10 AGR t.N  GDG to mEt adequate provisbon tor wevSdes anJ Iravel allowances to aglow l,id          ORG                       2
stiat to etftefihly carry oul thea enension responso.llres
C,.J 10AGR MN GOG snouia seduce kee dlstributon ol seeohngs Isom 2.500 pef tamgy to 1l000 by           ORG                       I
1965. a0 boy 198%6.00 by 1967. 400 by1li8. Ana 00 by 1989. Ihe chage ot
seeaigs Sd be ncInreased to 10 p6lls by 1961 7rd 20 pais.t by 1969
GJJ 2 02         Ana tr id yeta of planhg but not Later than 3.31/8. eact Sl ae uriertjkes to Catty    01IG                      1                                                     03/1/08
A JLI reovew At    ItS Sub-propJCt ,ith bOrrowerf    IDA.
GUJ 2.03         Oce a yeat each Slate wu k.erlsh IOA results of the M&E of Its sub-prolect.           ORG                       2
GUJ 2.04         Al least every two years each Slate  il revise/upadle ts wood baLance study.          ORG                       2
GW] 3 1C         Bonfower shal male Iviabl out of proceeds ot Cred. an amount equlvalent to           ORG                       1
SDR 62.33.000 to GOG.
GUi 3 0AA        GO uIsa Lrmsh IDA proposed structure of Central Foresity Organ,zalon.                 ORG                       1                         06130109       ;4          04/30t6         NAEB (lormrmy NW13j Is respon
sible lor Uth Central Foressrp
Orgaatzafor. whkh Is headed by
an Additonal Secetey.
GUJ 3 0453       GO sre sanclade by 4.30.66 and ta by 10.31 86 the position of Head o0 the Central    MAN                        1                             -                      04/30/08
SocQI Forestry Crtni-ior.
GUJ 3 048(i)     GO snal maan thet afteg posatlon of Heaa ol the Central Socil Forestry               MAN                        2                                                    10/31/86        Sao above, but V. aXGF (MoIr-
Ogarution an Vioe ol Cret Projecl Economist and Deputy GF/MonIlo,ng.                                                                                                                toeing) is not woduing kw  e 0
projetcL'
GW 401A2         Bonowr sr  casa  ks detments and other agencies responsibe for Part A of              FIN                       1
we project to krtIsh IDA not latr utan rne motIns after each FY. ceetdea copies
of trt accouts *i  nKanciAl satemnnts.
GW 4Dtet         Soroww rt cause Its departments n  other agencies to uttnish tIDA  Immediately       ADT                        1
LesK fiIezation, repon on udted accoseits anr tinancia sltfements.
Gtl SH.201A    GOG to tunish idomarton on prvat wasteland paneg schemes, Uee tenLre                  ORG                        2                                                    12/31/85
schemies. community manage woodlots an   ee ltodder planlarlons wic shtl
cover procedues fo seectng parlcp s n. partcipalts rlgns laid reponsatbtses.
etc.
GW SL2.09       GOG shal mantais codtnalton commheas toe sOct twrestry actitvties.                   ORG                        2
GJ. Set211       By 3.31.ee GOO to cary out a cost recovery stuOy regafrdng social toresuy             STO                       1                         03/31/90                   03131/08       Done by USAID conract
seeedngs casurtutrtln and knpItement as Indngs.
;AA 10 AGR lJiN  GOR shaMe make adequate peosslIon for veltctes and travel alloances to aIow          ORG                        1
Ueld sWtt to eletivy cliiy ouL theb etensain responsataes.
FAt 10 AGfR SUN  GOR shot'  ma liee dsirbdlon of seedangs peg lamy to 1.00 by 1907. anO 500           ORG
by Is3 aa hAoutd chagt  S p.r5 pet Sect*eg by 1t90. 10 paiSa by 19%. aod 15
peisa by 1939.
FWJ lOiC        Barromw shas es  a*abte out do ploceeds o Ccdt. n anmmtl eq.valett to                 DOW(                       I
SOB 16.7?.00 to Rejasiaw
PAt 10A         GOt stah t"rtrsh KDA propop    structUe of Centalt Forestay Osgamzation.              ORG                        1                         06/30169                  04/30186        NAE (tfoItWdy NWt   ) Is rspbn
sibk. An Additonal Secretary I
te tkad.
Flk 3 t;B        GO sOat sawce  by 4.3046 an td by 10.31.86. itt posmon of Head of tne CertOal        MAN                        1                         06/389                    04/0f
Scici Forestry tCganizaloit.
PA 3.4.          GOt aia " a"Aas Uteakone poadlon o Head 1 Ise Cenral Socalt Forestry                 MAN                        2                         0W39                      10131168        OIGF (Monorbing) is rot wokng
Can,zaton  nd alot, of Ctaef Proect Economist and Deputy IGF/tontilorlg.                                                                                                           for Utle proecL



O. - ce 0aeaf                                                                       Type CI                   Lewd                        Adied                      oRned           AMaa
Cot            coe2/                            0M                         2/
PAJ 4 OA2        GOCR     eart Is deCrmas and ode agencics responsible t  Pan A of me                  FN                        1I                                                   03/31,08       &A Inordritlet, dlayed tr 1190-
proect to krersh IDA nt4 wet then nt  momhs iter each FY. cetulid copes d                                                                                                           01.
wthe accounts amd kwdic  statemes.
RU 40182         GOAR       cause as depwtmeas am ote agencis to furdsh IDA immediately                AOT                       I                                                    03/3118        Same as above.
.pon fiaatike. reor on audted accourts and t.hhclW state ments.
PAl SK2.01A    GOII sha kitsh Wotmado on private  steland plemki schemnes. lee itterse               ORG                        1                         04/30)8                    12/31,15
schemes. Cominity manad woodots and tee todder planiutons lo cover
Proce,aes km selecaCl Porbicipats. ightS and responSabtles of parttclpOts. etc.
PAl Sri 2.02     Ae teed year dC  parng  Di nIt latu thn 3.31.88. GOR urndertalhes to carry a         ORG                        I                         03/31/8                    03/31i8
13'M iet"    I is wub-pojet  r bDrtfotC And ICA.
AAJ Sn 2 03     OnCc  a year. GOR mU lurdsh iDA results el ma m&E of ds subrprogect.                  ORG                        2                         07/31*9
PAd Sm 2 4      Ai least esery two years. GOR mm eviseApdsate rts wood balance study                   5ST                       1                         11/30/90
iRA 5".2 CU     By 12 3185.5 GOARVW sanction the posron ol Consevatof of Forests oie tarvnnrg.        ORG                        1                                                    12/31)5
WIlL
PAJ SN2 ;       GOCR sitalls mulin coodnakUon comaunr es tor socta loresut, actlvdes.                 ORG                        2
FW1 54n2.10     By 3.31.8. OR G   e carry osA a study of the organriadolu is&uts tn State Foist       sTD                        1                         12/3190        -           03/31*N
Depanmems.
RAJ Sn-2.11     by 3.31.88. GOR Se crry oLA a cost recovery study regadig socrat lorestry             STO                        1                         09/0/0                     03/3118 8
seOngs istroubo  and impemer a s InOngs.                                                                                                                                                                                   0
UP 10 AGR UN   GOUP snoudl make adeate provAion lot vehicies nW travel aowanes to slow                ORG                        1
Lat  sue to eaecv*y carry out thee eension respons es.
LP 10 AGA MUN  G0UP Uhrtais cherge per seetg to 25 pase by 1987 nd 30 paisa by 1988                   ORG                        I
LP 3 01C         Borrower snl make ava3e 0  ofd proceeas of CredC. an mnrmt etuivaent ro              OFIG 1
SOR 61,500.00 to UP.
LP 3 irA         GO Mug lsmilsn IDA proposed suctlue of Cenual Forestry Organizationf                  ORG                       1                         0OT39                      0430186        NAEP (loemry  WO) Is respow-
sDle. An Additional Seretary i
VW Hed.
UP 3v0ar         00 seasnsancon by 4.30.88 nd Gmtby 10.31e4. tw posdion of Head ol ihe Cenutal        MAN                        1                             -04/3018
Socual Foresty Cgardzal
UP 3 048aim      GOt sna ltadt n tn tweab  poskion c Head of The Central Socal Forestry               MAN                        2                                                    10/31186       DIGf (moarionrrig) is nd wmhg
OrCaruton  thos g    o Clee Ptoject Economest and Oeputky lGFJM%tOIMe.                                                                                                              lot me poject.
UP A CIA2        GOUP shea caue ks depanmerts and othet agenes responsible tor Pan A ad ma             FIR                       1                                                    03/318
protect to kersh IDA tr4 ls  than nm  months ante eacn FY. ceoumbed copies o0
thee accounts and Irrncil statemenis.
,P 4 0132       GOUP shet cAse Is deprmets an othw rgencles to kar4sh IDA Immediately                 AOT                        1                                                    03/31,18
upon eahzioat. ceport on ansuted accounts am  nc4t sutasrrenLs.
LaP SM. 2 CIA   GOUP sn kersh idotion on privle wastland plantg schemes, tree tenrsc                  ORG                        I                                                    12/31/15
Schems. commity mnge wo totus ana utr lodder plntarbons to cos%r
proceosFes lot selecting prl nts . ights and responsibities oi i.iS Partrricpants.
etc.
LP SR 202       Alke Owed yeruf ptarhg bu hott Useti mtn 3 31.88. GOI undertakes to carir a           ORG                        I                                                   03/3118
jint renew  of as luti-procecl v.ed borocv  ahd IDA.
UPSn 203        Osce*Aear. tOUP WE ttsesnCttA ress of Me MAE of As sub-project.                     o0G                         2                                                                   Some pcemea plartation strwy
repits have been prepietd
; S. 2 04       A lteasit ery two yers. GOU>P wint reseupolte  5s woOd balance study.                 ST0                        2                         12/31/0                                   Study carried cr4 once has not
been updated.



i,ll'.
111ff 
;  I
a-
.4  i gr 
a -f
15 ~  ~     ~    S         1



8. Use of Bank Resources
A  Staff tqiAs (stff wecks)
To"                          f-              FYb4             FY85            FY86             FYB7             FY88             FY89            FY9)             FY91            FY92             FY93            FY94              ToaW
FY
LENP                           -              22.4             47.0                                                -               -                -69.4
USIA                           -                -             115-                                                                 -                -                                -               -                -             115.8
LINN                                                           2.                -                                                 - 4  *                                    -                                                       26.4
SaN                                                            06              36 9             11 5            24 3              9.3             16.4            18 5              76               3.5              -              26.0
xa                             -                -                -               -                -              0.3                                -               -                -               -              25.7            130.6
Ta                             -              22.4           1N8              36.9             11.5            24.6              9.3             18.4            18.5              7.6              35             257             3882
tS FP - AcAUes tyIx to Aptyalsal.
*lv Azt.-::ies uthtal to Aptyamiat
Lt- A    ti2fltIaaoni;us.
5PN  - S*ern son time.
Ca   - Pc;tTpeaonabme.
n. Missions
Ty  ed   t ssit                            Dee             St By               No. di Pasoos    Man-diys in Fkid      Spcdzdon             Perkwmae Ratlg                         Traid                       Type d F otcE/U
FPepwaton
Apan                                       05,15             W8                      10
S       1r,wwS.oft 1t10t5                                W8.USAtO                    2                  a                  Eel                       2                                                                 1
Veuvh,oen 2                                7)56          VIB * USAID                 2                  12                  e * E                    1                                                                 1
5 _owvt  3                                 3,18          Yv 8  USAI0
S4,W,,*W,A 4                                109 W9         b . USAID                 3                                                               2
'oasubonl5                                 869               W*                      1                  22                   F                       2                                                               M  t I
5' c%tson 6                                1//39             we                      3                  27                   F                       2                                                               1 e M
54eras     I                               6,90          W8O  USAIO                  2                  23                   F                       2                                                               1 teM
Spesmuwnl                                  I ij9             We                      5                  20             F  En *tnst.                  2                                                             T  I + M
SOerms,on 9                                6f91              Ws                      3                  21                F * Ag                     2                                                               1 T
5.p-ersown 10                              10,91             W8                      4                  17                F * Ag                     2                                                               1 M
s,omn.wlII                                 6fl2              Wd                      2                  20                   F                      2                                                                1 c M
S;<v.s:c.n 12                   2,91             W8                       2                 25                   F                       2                                                              T e M * I
AG . Ay.-rctt. E - Economics: F * Foiestuy; 5 - Sociology. En - Entonment. Inst * l"5tutlolnsr
I- aXlerIe ree w  nMr-a prtotems. 2 . Modelate problems  3 - Mapr peoblems
LI F . F-anc.L M - Wpra;tt. I  tlnstdAutionl.



53
INDtA  National Social Forcstry Project
Prjcet Completion Report
Table 1. Exchange Rate and Inflation Factors
Fiscal Year                  Exchange Rate 1/             Wholesale Price Index
(@ Rs to USS1.00)                  (Base Year
(Period Average)                   1993-100)
1984/85                          11.89                           190.0
1985/86                          12.24                           1S2.O
1986/87                          12.79                           172.0
1987/88                          12.97                           159.0
1988/89                          14.48                           148.0
1989/90                          16.66                           138.0
1990/91                          17.95                           125.0
1991/92                          24.52                           109.9
1992/93                          26.41                           100.0
1/  IMF  Inernionat Financial Statistics.



INDIA:  National Social Forestry Project (Cr.1611-INl)
Project Coepletion Report
Table 2.  Sensitivity Arnlysis
v
PRESENI VAtUES Of IIEI STREAIMS Al A DISCOUNT RATE o0 12X
8TOI       UP 10%         ur 20%        uP 50%    DOtl/ 10%    Dorui 20%    DOWII 50%  LAG 1 YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 TEARS
ClO1                5S809.7        6956.7        8,103.1      11,5'.' 8      4,662.7        3,515.7          74.6       4,580.7       3,483.5       2,503.8
UP 10X              5 243.6        6.390.7   75137.7          10, 91t3.1      4,0?6.6       2,949.6        -491.6       4 014.7       2,917.4       1,931.7
UP 20%              4,6U7.6        5,U12'.6      6,911.6      10,'.1?.7      3,530.6        2,3s1.5      -1,057.6       3,448.t, -   2,351.4        1,371.6
UP 501              2,979.4        4,126. 1.     5,273.4        U,/     l.S   1,Ul2.4        685.3      -2,755.8       1,750.4         653.2        -326.7
DOWN 10%            6,315.8        7,522.t  8     ,669.5      1?,II0.9       5.2213. ?      4,081.7         640.6       5,146.8  *  4,049.5         3,069.8
DOWNt 20%'.         6,941.8  a      ,088.9       9,235.9      12,617.0       5,794.8        4,647.8       1,206.7       5,112.9,    4,615.6         3,635.9
DOWN 50X            8,640.0        9,787.0      10,934.1      14,375.1       7,493.0        6,345.9       2,904.9       7,411.0       6,313k8\:    5 334.0
LAG I YEAR                  -             -             -             -              -                           -      5,187.2 ..  4,090.0         3,110.2
LAG 2 YEARS                 *             -                           -              -             -             -                    4,631.5       3,651.8
LAG 3 YEARS                 -             -             -             *              *             -                                         -      4,135.2           ,n
IttIERIIAL RAIES Of RETUIRlII O  NET SIREANS
B101       UP 10%         uP 20%        UP 50%    DOWII 10%    DOwII 20%    DOWtl 50%  LAG I YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEAPS
CIOT                  21.8143       23.350        2'.767        28.5118        20.230        18.492        12.164        19.187        17.157        15.546
UP 10%                20.3U2        21.t",3       23.217         26.923        18.818        17.1i3        10.9834       17.955         16.089        14.600
uP 20%                19.017        20t 5tl       21.U134       2,. ,.6        17.567        15.928         9.931         16.658        15.13        15.751
UP 50%                151.921       17.21.9        18.492        21. 43        14.5 11       12.901          7.319       14.156         12.763        11.634
DOWN 10%              23.512        25.0U1        26.53s         3U.4Ut8       21.843        20.044        13.505        20.586         18.366        16.613
DOWN 20%              25.446        27.066        283.588       32.686         21.712        21.8t43       15.055        22.197         19.752       17.8d1
DOWN 50X              33.925        35.17W        37.551        42.275         31.915        29.744        21.843        29.156        25.666        22.985
tAG I YEAR                  -             -             .             .              .                           -       21.843        19.187        17.157
LAG 2 IEARS                 -             -             -             -              -             -             -             -       21.843        19.187
LAG 3 YEARS                 -             -             -             *              -             -             -                           -       21.843
Internal Rates of Return of Net Streams
IIBIOI                       21.85X
SWI ICIIIIIG VALUES Al 12%
APPRAISAL      SWIIICIIIlG    PERCEII?ACE
SIREAII                     VAtttE         VALUE          (IIA:ILL
B101                   11,470.20       5,660,59          -50.65%
CTOT                    5,660.59      11,1470,20         102.64%
......... ............. ........... ................... .. ... .......
Net Present Value at OCC 12%   5,dO?.7
Internal Rate of Peturn = 21.9%            4
Coupon Equivalent Ri.te ol Return - 74.7X



55
ANNEX 1
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        This annex presents the financial and economic results of plantations
undertaken under the National Social Forestry Project. Financial analvsis was prepared,
on a per hectare mode' to asses's the financial viability of investments undertaken by the
farmers and the Forestry Department in each State - Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal
Pradesh and Gujarat. Economic analysis was carried out to determine the economic
profitability of the plantations to the states participating in the project. The financial and
economic analysis have been undertaken in 1992/93 constant prices. In estimating
production from farm forestrv (the largest component of the project accounting for 76%
of the total planted area), yields could only be based on notional area which is calculated
by dividing the total number of seedlings issued to farmers by the averace number of
seedlings recommended for planting per hectare. Consequentlv, the results of the
analysis would seem overly optimistic because wastage between time of issue and
planting is icgnored. This discrepancy is mitigated by carrying out a sensitivity analysis
by reducing benefits up to 50%o (see para 18).
2.         NMost of the farm forestry plantings have been found to be on field bunds and
homesteads as manv farmers could not plant their small land holdings and wait 5-15
years to receive a return. A certain percentage of larger farmers, (vary-ing from an
estimated 5% in Himachal Pradesh, 20%c in Uttar Pradesh, 25%c in Rajasthan to 60%/ in
Gujarat) have, however, used their croplands for block planting of tree species such as
eucalyptus and teak. Fores; Department plantations have been on either community
wasteland or degraded forest areas, which had, by and large, previouslv been subject to
grazing. The opportunity cost of land in both cases have been incorporated into both
analyses, although at appraisal, no land value had been imputed for community
wastelands or degraded forest areas.
3.        The annlex( is divided into two main sections; the first presenting the results
and assumptions of the financial analysis, and the second, the assumptions and results
of the economic analysis.
It. FINANCIL., ANALYSIS
Ceneral
4.        At appraisal, the mix of plantation models was designed to emphasize the
lower cost model (farm  forestry), limit the high cost model (strip plantation) and
promote morc planting on wastclanleds to earn better returns. At Credit closing date, the
farmTI forestry modiel has rcinained dominlalnt in all states hut has fallcn short of appraisal
expectationis, except in Gujarat; wasteland plantings have exceedcd the appraisal targets
in all four states, and strip plantations have been well helow the appraisal targets in
Rajastlhan and GLnj;tr;t but excCCICL tlc original expectatlins in only Uttar lPr;adesh.
I'lei details are giveni in Part IIl/4A.



56
INDIA: NalioIal Social Fomrsty Projcct (Cr.1611-IN)
Anncx 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Ptoject Completion Rcpon
5.         The cash flows for typical plantation models also indicate the analvses of
financial rates of return (FRRs) of the models. The detailed results are given in Tables
1A-D to 4A-D. As expected, farm forestry has achieved the highest FRRs.
6.         Costs are calculated,per hectare and 1992/93 prices are used for both costs
and returns. Farmers' labour inputs and products accruing to rural households have been
valued at imputed prices equal to market wage rate and output prices at stump. The
market wage rate per person-day is taken at Rs4O (Rajasthan), Rs25 (Uttar Pradesh),
Rs3O (Himachal Pradesh) and Rs32 (Gujarat), output prices are summarized in Table 5.
7.         The results indicate acceptable to favourable FRRs for most models, ranging
from 13.8% to 41.3%, except for strip plantations on government wastelands in Gujarat
(1.7%), Rajasthan (6.6%o) and Uttar Pradesh (10.2%); as well as community woodlot in
Gujarat (9.2%). largely because of high investment costs.
Establishment Cost
8.         Plantation establishment costs had obviously varied between plantation
models within a state and between states, depending on different conditions, method of
work and type of production units. However, on average, costs (per typical model) have
been estimated based on data provided by the Forest Department of different states and
updated to  1992/93 prices.  The updated  figures are provided  in Tables 1A-D
(Rajasthan), Tables 2A-D (Uttar Pradesh), Tables 3A-D (Himachal Pradesh) and Tables
4A-D (Gujarat). In summary, the total cost is estimated at:
Rajasthan         Uttar         Himachal         Gujarat
I    Pradesh         Pradeshi
. .....................I............ Rs/ha .
Establishment Cost
Farm forcsiry             6,267            4,631           2,898           7,185
Community wocAdlot        I j.)           14,9t1           5,987           25,61i3a/ |
Rchabilitalion of         6,500           13,808           6,025           11,077
degradcd arcus
Strip plantation          15,900          11,276             -             32,322
11 Avcrage cost of rainfcdl plus irrigatcd.



57
INDLA. National Social Fomstry Projcct (Cr.1611-lN)
Annex 1: Fnancial and Economic Rc-evaluation
Project Compiction Report
Plantation Maintenance Cost
9.          Plantation maintenance is estimated at Rs9O/ha/yr for plantations raised by
the Forest Department. No maintenance, except for casualty replacement, has been
assumed for farm for_stry.
Production Volume
10.         Estimates of total production of major products are summarized below:
.  Unit     Rajasthan        Uttar        Himachal  |  Gujarat
I   Pr2-desh       Pradesh   I
Fuelwood         mt (milion)       5.34           8.77           6.41          13.95
Poles            no. (million)    61.00          578.45         35.35         503.00
Timber           ml (million)      0.41          15.39           5.80           4.05
Grass            mt (million)      2.42           4.17           4.80           1.90
Leaf fodder      mt (mUlion)       1.11           2.94           2.66           1.86
nTe above production has been based on annual planted areas shown in Table IG
(Rajasthan), 2G (Uttar Pradesh), 3F (Himachal Pradesh) and 4G (Gujarat).
Output Prices
11.         Prices used in calculating financial revenues are unit values which the
producing unit expect to obtain at stump. Average 1992/93 prices prevailing in the
respective project areas have been used, net of felling, handling and transportation costs.
The resulting standing values are given in Table 5 and summarized below:



58
INDLA Nationai Social orestry Project (Cr.1611-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Rcpon
Unit        Rajasthan        Uttar         Himaclial      Gujarat
I             I   Pradesh         Pradesh
Fuelwood              Mt        .   750            700            360 '          750
-'                                         520k'
Fruit                 mt           2,000          2,500            200          2,000
Poles                no.             30             35              30            30
Stemwood              m3           1,125          1,250            800           800
Grass                 TMt           200            300             400           450
Lcaf fodder           mt            850            100             210            -
/ Conifer. / Broadleaf
The opportunity cost of land has been estimated at Rsl,000/ha/yr for agricultural fields
used by farmers in block planting. Estimated area devoted to block planting varies from
5% (Himachal Pradesh), 20% (Uttar Pradesh), 25% (Rajasthan) to 60% (Gujarat). The
opportunitv cost of grass in government 'wastelands' is estimated at RslOO/ha/yr.
Financial Rates of Return
12.         Based on the foregoing, cost and revenue projections have been prepared
with an assumed project life of 32 vears. These are presented in Tables IA-D to 4A-D
and the results are summarized in Part 111/6C.
C. ECONONIIC RE-EVALUATION
General
13.         An economic re-evaluation has been carried out for the project as a whole
alid for each of the four stale sub-projects. The main assumptions and estimates made
in the SAR and PCR are set out below.
Appraisal Estimates
14.         At appraisal, the projcct's economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated to
be 27%  and for each of the four states at 17% (Rajastian), 251%/ (Uttar Pra(desh), 34%
(1-limlachal lPradcish) and 26%  (Gujarat), based on the following assumptions:
(i)         all costs taken arc base costs, including physic;tl contlingenicies;



59
INDrX Na2ional Social Postry Projcct (Cr.1611-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Rc-evaluaion
Project Compicltion Report
(ii)       investment costs are taken over project period (Years 1-6)
including pre-project year (Year 0), and without replacements;
(iii)      100%  of staff costs for project period and 100%  of extension
staff costs for Years 7-15 have been taken; this provides for
Forest Department's supervision and extension for individual
schemes for at least ten years with eventual handing over to local
beneficiaries or panchayats;
(iv)       100% of other recurrent project costs for the project period and
100%  of costs of extension components only in Years 7-15 for
the reasons indicated in (iii) above; and
(v)        plantation recurrent costs are taken through Year 31.
(vi)       conversion factor for unskilled labour is 0.70 and standard
conversion factor is 0.80.
PCR Estimates
15.        The re-estimation of the ERRs follows SAR  methodology.  The main
differences are:
-      actual costs are used for project years FY1984-85 to 1992-93, with
past expenditures restated in FY1992/93 constant prices using
wholesale price index;
-      all values are expressed in constant 1992/93 price terms, the project's
completion year;
-      opportunity cost of land valued at Rsl,000/ha/year for block planting
by farmers and RsIOO/ha/year for grazing lands on government
wastelands;
-      no  benefits quantified  for fuelwood  plantations, silvi-pastoral
plantation and tree tenure for the poor and landless and fuel saving
devices becausc of the insufficient monitoring data and insignificant
areas involved, less than 1% of total planted area;
costs after project completioni include 1% of thc total expenditure for
civil works as maintenance, 10% of staff salaries and 10% of vehicle



'60
INDIA: National Social Forestry Projcct (Cr.1611-IN)
Annex 1: Ftnancial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
and office operating costs of the year 1992/93 to continue, and
Rs9O/ha/yr as plantation maintenance for departmental plantations.
16.       Phased investment costs in financial and economic values for the purpose of
the analyses are show-. in Table 1G (Rajasthan), Table 2G (Uttar Pradesh), Table 3G
(Himachal Pradesh) and Table 4G (Gujarat).
17.       Based on the above assumptions, the current estimate of ERRs for the
project as a whole and each of the four states are 22% (whole project), 12% (Rajasthan),
28% (Uttar Pradesh), 13% (Himachal Pradesh) and 23% (Gujarat), (see Tables 1-4E)
as compared with the appraisal estimates of 27%, 17%, 25%, 34% and 26% respectively.
The special factors responsible for lower ERRs for Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh are
the higher cost increases of 111% and 113% compared to other states which had cost
increases of 78% (Uttar Pradesh) and 299o (Gujarat). The principal factors which have
contributed to the lower ERRs are the following:
(i)       lower yield expectations due to reduced survival rates - 30To
(Rajasthan), 75%c (Uttar Pradesh), 54%/c (Himachal Pradesh) and
18% (Gujarat), in contrast to the appraisal estimate of 80%;
(ii)       changes in species mix and effective densities; and
(iii)     overly optimistic MAI estimates at appraisal, in particular for
Rajasthan and Gujarat.
However, increased planted area and high value product mix have not been high enough,
except in Uttar Pradesh, to fully offset the above negative influences.
18.       Sensitivity analysis was carried out for the project as a whole. The results
show that a reduction in benefits by 20%  or 50% will lower ERR to 18%  or 12%
respectively; while an increase in cost by 20% or 50% will lower ERR to 19% or 16%
respectively. The project is not sensitive to variations in either costs or revenuC. The
results are presented in Table 7.



INDIA:   N.utional  Social  forestry  Project  (Cr.1611-111)
AmieS  1:   F inancia   aaxJ Econoic  Re-Evaluation
Project Copiletion Report
Tabte  IA.   Rajasthan:   Farm  forestry  - financial Costs ard  Retuns per flectare  (Rs)
........................................................................ .................................................................................................................. ......................................
1             2               3              4              5         6-08                9        10-11               12        13-14               15             16             17
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----. --................ --... -............................. ........ -................. .... ..... .............. ......................... ... ... f... .........
Costs
Establish. I msint. costs 1/5056.50                        605.00         605.00
Opportunity  cost of  land   2/ 250.00                     250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00          250.00         250.00         250.00
Total  costs                              5306.50          855.00         855.00         250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00          250.00         250.00         250.00
Benefits
fuetlood                                           -              -               -                     202.50         202.50         915.00         202.50        7140.00                 -                                     150.00
Poles                                                                     -                      -              -              -    9000.00                                          -       
stewoaod                                                                                         -              - -  -  -      -              -              -              -                    1687.50                 -
Pods                                                                              -         0.03           0.03           0.03           0.03            0.03               -              *              *          0.03           0.03
Leaf  fodder                                                       -              -      382.50         382.50         382.50         382.50         382.50         382.50         382.50                 -       314.50         314.50
Grass                                                              -      100.00         100.00          100.00         100.00        100.00          100.00         100.00         100.00          60.00          60.00          60'00
Frui t                                                                            -              -              -      300.00         300.00         300.00         300.00         300.00         300.00         300.00          300.00
lotal  benefits                                    -               -      100.00         482.53         685.03         985.03    10697.53            985.03        7922.50         782.50        2047.50         674.53          824.53
Met benefits                             *5306.50         -855.00        -755.00         232.53         435.03         735.03    10447.53            735.03        7672.50         532.50        1797.50          424.53        574.53
............. ....- -- -      - - -- --                                                                                                                   . . . .. . .... ... . . . .. . .. . . . . . . ..,,. .,. .. ..,,.,,,,,,,,,:.--. . . . . .. . .. . . ...............  - ------  -
18        19-23               24             25        26-29               30             31             32
............ .... .......   ....................... .. .... ... ............. ....................... ............ ..................... .... ..... ... ... .
Costs
Estabtish.  4  maint. costs                                                      -               .              .
opportunaity  cost of  land                250.00          250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00
lotat  costs                               250.00          250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00         250.00
Benefits
fuetwood                                   720.00          150.00       4957.50          450.00                               .               -              -
Poles                                     7200.00                 -              -    5760.00
Strernwood                                         -              -              -               -             -     1350.00
Pods                                          0.03            0.03                               .             .              -
Leaf  fodder                               314.50          314.50         127.50         127.50         127.50       2550.00        2550.00         2720.00
Crass                                        60.00          60.00          6t.00          60.00          60.00          60.00          60.00          60.00
fruit                                      300.00         300.00          300.00         300.00                 .             -
lotal  benefits                           8594.53         824.53        5445.00        6697.50          l(.50        3960.00        2610.00        2780.00
Wet benefits                              8344.53    574.53   5195.00   6447.50    -62.50   3710.00   2360.00   2530.00
... ...  ..  .. .............. ...................... ..........                     ---------------------------------------------------.... ... .. ..... ..... ............ 
fRR       =   18.4X.
In 1992,'93 prices; ter grafting (RslUO), seediiiuq tranv;portation (RS250), pit uiggil
(Fs) . 0), ptan  ini (RS3  5), wee td  9.q  v1   6ii woikiiig  (K%500), waie, 1m.  (f ,2 ),
feri lizer  (RsR07)  for  Te.r  1, one  ..eedinq ard   ater ing  (Rst,05)  each  in  Years 2  arxd  3.
-/          YSc.timated  at  Fsl,GCC/na/fcar  tor  btbLk  plantirO  by  farimels  ir  about 25%  of  tlhe  planted



IDOIA:  lWational Social forestry Project (Cr.1611-IN)
Aawlex 1:  financial aid Economic Re-Evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table 1B. Rajasthan:  Co_nnity Uoxilot - Financial Costs and Retwnes per Nectare (ls)
...................... ..................... ....   ..... ..... ....... .... ... .... ... ............... . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .......................    ..................
1         2          3          4       5-10         11        12      13-15      16 18     19-21         22         23         24    25-31         32
-Costs
Establish. L maint. costs 1/7000.00   3000.00   1000.00
Opportunlty cost of land  2/ 100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00   100.00    100.00
Total costs                   7100.00   3100.00   1100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100:00    100.00    100.00   100.00    100.00
Benefits
Fuelwood                            -          .          .          .    750.00    750. 00  11850.00           -    600.00    600.00   9150.00            -          -   600.00   7650.00
Stec6ood                            -                                                      -   4725.00          -          -                               -   3712.50
Poos                                -          -          -          -      0.07       0.07                     -       0.04      0.04       0.04       0.04
Leaf fodder                                                    255.00    255.00    255.00                       -    195.50    195.50    127.50    127.50    127.50   680.00    680.00
Crass                                          -    140.00    140.00    140.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    300.00    300.00    300.00    300.00   300.00    300.00
Frui                                -                     -     260.00    260.00    260.00    260.00    260.00    260.00    260.00    260.00    260.00                         .
Total benefits                      *          *    140.00    395.00   1405.07   1665.07  17235.00    660.00   1455.54   1355.54   9837.54    687.54   4400.00  1580.00   8630.00
met benefits                 -7100.00  -3100.00   -960.00    295.00   1305.07   1565.07  17135.00    560.00   1355.54   1255.54   9737.54    587.54   4300.00  1480.00   8530.00
fRR  *  13.99g.
1/     See Table IA.
/      Estimated at RslOO/ha/year on non-fareu forestry land.



lNIA,: Niational Social Forestry Project (Cr.161111i)
Annex 1: financial ancl Economic Re-Evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table IC. Rajasthan:  Rchabilitation of Degraded Forest - Finarvial Costs ard Returns per Nectare (Rs)
1         2         3         4          5      6-07          8      9-10         II        12     13-15         16     I7-l1
~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ..... ..... ....... .. ......... ............. ... .... ... ................. ............................... .... ..... .. ..... ......................
Costs
Establish.   m maint. costs I/3000.00   2000.00   1000.00    250.00    250.00                                                              -           
F0oortunity cost of land  2/ 100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    1.41.00    100.00    100.00    100.00
Tocatl costs                 3100.00   2100.00   1100.00    350.00    350.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00
Benefits
Fuelwood                                     -               900.00    375.00    375.00    900.00    375.00    375.00  12375.00            -    825.00    300.00                      
Pods                                                           0.01      0.01       0.01      0.01       0.01                    -                0.01       0.01
Lta  fodder                                             -    170.00    170.00    170.00    170.00    170.00           -          -              170.00    170.00
Gro ss                                              80.00     80.00     80.00      80.00     80.00      80.00    200.00    200.00    200.00    200.00    200.00
Total benefits                               -      80.00   1ISO.01    625.01    625.01   1150.01    625.01    575.00  12575.00    200.00   1195.01    670.01
wet benefits                -3100.00  -2100.00  -1020.00    800.01    275.01    525.01   1050.01    525.01    475.00  12475.00    iO0.00   1095.01    570.01
19        20        21         22        23        24      25-31        32
Costs
Establish. * imint. costs                    -          .                    -         .
0pportunity cost of land      100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00
Total costs  *                100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00
lenefits
fueliwod                      300.00    825.00    300.00  13500.00    300.00    525.00           -  13200.00
Pods                            0.01      0.01       0.01      0.01      0.01       0.01
Ltaf fodder                   170.00    170.00    170.00    170.00    170.00    170.00
Gross                         100.00    100.00    10n.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00
lotal benefits               570.01   1095.01    57G.01  13170.01    S10.01    795.01    100.00  13300.00
Met benefits                  470.01    995.01    470.01  13670.01    470.01    695.01           -  13200.00
fIR * 15.671.
I/      See Table UA.             See Table 1E.



INDIA:  National Social Forestry Project (Cr.1611-I1)
AnneA 1:  financial a   Economic geoEvaluation
Project Completion Report
Table 10. Rajasthan: Strip Plantntiens - Financial Costs w*d eturns per lectare (Is)
,....... ........................................... ......................... ..... ......... ....... ........... ..... ....... ..  ........... .... ..... ............ ................... ........................
I          2           3           4        5-10          11          12      13-14          15       16-17          18      19-21
. ... .. ... ... ........... . ... ..... .. . . ........ ............. . . ._......... ............. .... ..... ..... .......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .
Costs
Establish. & maint. costs 115900.000                                                             -           -
Opportunity cost of Itad 2  100 .000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000
lotal costs                  16000.000     100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.Z00    100.000    100.000    100.000
Benefits
fuetwood                                                                 -    750.000    750.000   71(0.000              -                900.000    900.000    900.000
Steoawod                                                -          -                       -                 -           -   7087.500           -           -
Pods                                  -           -           -           -      0.135       0.135           -           -           -      0.108       0.108       0.108
Leat fodder                           -                      -    127.500    121.500    127.500    127.500    127.500                -          -      85.000     85.000
Grass                                             -     40.000      40.000      40.000      80.000     80.000      80.000      80.000      80.000      80.000    100.000
Total benefits                                    -     40.000    167.500    917.63,5    957.635   7347.500    207.500   7167.500    980.108   1065.108   1085.108
wet benefits                -16000.000   -100.000    .60.000        67.500    817.635    857.635   7247.500    107.500   7067.500    880.108    965.108    985.108
22         23       24-25       26-29          30          31          32
Costs
Establish. I maint. costs                                    -                 -           -
Opportunity cost of Icnd       100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000
Total costs                    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000
Benefits
fuetwood                      5707.500            -          -           -           -               5707.500
Ste_mood                              -          -           -           -   9450.00 - 
Pods                             0.108       0.108           -           -           -           -           -
teat f dder                     85.000      85.000      85.000           -
Grass                          100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000    100.000
lotal benefits               5St92.6o8    185.106    185.000    100. 000   9550.000    100.000  507.500
Net beneits                   5792.608      85.108      85.000           -   9450.000            -   5707.500
.....................
FAR * 6.62.
SIe  lable IA.        S See tabIe 1t.



INDIA:  llational Social forestry Project (Cr.1611-Ill)
ArvneA 1:  financial and Economic Re-evaluation
0                                             PiPolect Completion Report
Table IE.   Rajasthan:  Econoaic Analysis - Total Project (Rs million)                                                        (Page 1)
.   ............... . .. . .......  .....................  .  ..................    ......  ....  -    *.-  -  *    *.-  -  -    -    -   -.-  *.-  -.-.-.-.-  -.-.-.-  -.-.-.-  *  -  *  -    -    -.-.*.-.
1        2        3        4        5         6        7        8         9       10       II        12       13       14       15        16
Costs
farm Forestry establish.  1 /    -   70.30   54.60   49.80   44.20   54.90   57.00   40.20    5.20                   2.10
Opportunity cost of lari  2/    -    4.80           8.40    12.00    14.90    19.10    23.50   26.10   26.10   26.10    26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10
Investment costs              3 41.79   66.70    88.71    75.26  102.22   150.64  139.37  136.30    3.63    3.63              3.61    3.63    3.63    3.63         3.63     3.63
Total costs                     41.79  141.80  151.71   137.06  161.32  224.64  219.87  202.60   34.93   31.83    29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73
Benef its
CI.
Farm forestry                        -                 -    1.39    7.69   15.15    25.31    33.91   42.77  186.42  155.99  145.31  236.07  227.84  218.29  195.11
Rehab. of Degraded forest                     -         -    0.25     3.85      5.51    10.44    10.92    18.44   20.97   25.55   21.00   60.71    52.69   88.18   47.58
CwmrnLity Woodlot                    -        -         -    0.11     0.43      1.83     3.51      7.39   10.46    17.21    20.47   22.10   34.79   34.70   64.55   38.f5
Strip Plantations                    -        -    0.01    0.07    0.35         0.91     1.16      1.34     1.51     1.76     1.80    3.41       6.08    3.02      3.96     6.83
Inproved Grafted Orchards                     -        -    0.00      0.06    0.13       0.18    0.24      0.28      0.36     0.43     0.43    0.43       0.43     0.43     0.43
lotaL  benefits                      -        -    0.01      1.82    12.38   23.53   40.60   53.80   73.47  226.71  204.25  192.25  338.08  316.87  375.40  288.90
Net benefits                   -41.79 -141.80 -151.70 -135.24 -148.94 -201.11 .179.27 -148.80   38.54  194.88  174.52  162.52  308.35  289.14  345.67  259.17
.............. ....................... .................................................................................. ....... ........... ... ... .............. ............. .. ... . . ......  . . ......... ..
IER * 12.1X.
I'      Planting costs os in Table IA, except seedling price, to avoid double cotuting.
lased an 25X block planting by farmers at Rs1l000/halyr plus RslOO/ha/yr on other lards.
See lable If.



INDIA:  National Social Forestry Project (Cr.1611-111)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table IE.   Rajasthan:  Fcoresic Analysis - Total Project (Rs million)                                               (Page 2)
17      18       19      20       21       22      23       24       25      26       27      28       29       30      31       32
Costs
farm Forestry establish.                                                              -                              -       -            -        -       -        -
opportunity cost of land    26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10   Ii.10   26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10
Investment costs               3.63    3.63    3.63    3.63    3.63    3.63    3.63    3.63    3.63    3.63    3.63   "3.63    3.63    3.63    3.63    3.63
Total costs                   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.T3   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73
Benefits
Farm Forestry                137.18  136.55  217.88  142.60  131.02  120.98  130.66  134.27  171.48  182.52  143.49  124.42  124.85  134.69  166.72  127.58
Rehab. of Degraded forest   93.41   78.77   81.81    14.17   20.52   21.64   67.25   55.85   97.99   56.47  104.32   83.87   84.24    9.42    6.92    3.1S
Com.rn ity Woodlot          110.27   60.58   37.15   14.61   19.11   21.12   28.92   27.81   46.50   31.98   77.88   46.23   49.95   31.46   28.60   24.62
strip Plantations              5.48    3.16    2.94    3.98    2.36    3.47    5.23    2.69    2.03    1.62    2.19    0.57    0.43    2.52    6.71    4.31
Iwrproved Grafted Orchards    0.45    0.48    0.51    0.53    0.56    0.59    0.62    0.62    0.62    0.62    0.62    0.62    0.62    0.62    0.62    0.62
Total benelits               346.79  279.54  340.28  17T.91  173.56  167.80  232.68  221.25  318.62  273.21  328.50  255.71  260.09  178.72  209.57  160.28
iet benefits                 317.06  249.81  310.55  146.18  143.83  138.07  202.95  191.52  288.69  243.48  298.77  225.98  230.36  148.99  179.84  130.55
33      34       35       36      37       38      39       40
...    ........   ........... ..............    -------------------------------------------------------------...
Costs
Farm Forestry estabtish.                   .        .       .                 .       -        -
Opportunity cost of lord    26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10
Investment costs               3.63    3.63    3.63    3.63    3.63    3.63    3.63    3.63
Total costs                   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73   29.73
Benef i ts
Farm Forestry                104.33   84.87   85.54   88.64   80.76   45.96   18.74
Rehab. of Degraded forest   44.87   38.18   17.96   38.57   86.68   71.78   72.09
Cosamnity Woodlot             30.27   29.00   11.48   26.12   56.44   21.02   12.19
Strip Plantations              6.03    3.26    4.26      1.42    2.17    0.28    0.19
lproved Grafted Orchards    0.o2    0.54    0.44    0.36    0.28    0.21    0.10
lotal benefits               186.11  155.86  209.68  155.11  226.33  145.25  103.30
Met benefits                 156.38  126.13  179.95  125.38  196.60  115.52   73.57  .29.73
....................... ......................................................



IWDIA: Wational Social forestry Project (Cr.1611-IN)
Annex 1  Finarncial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table iF.   Rajasthan - Investment Costs in finrncial nMn  Ecornmic Terms (Rs million)
1985-86          1986-8?7         1987-8l           1988-89          1989-901         1990-911          1991-921          192-93
Plantation Activities                       19.35             35.00            55.13            46.74             70.81           12,.10            124.74            134.45
Cf * 0.70                                    13.54            24.50            38.59            32.n2             49.57            85.47             87.32             94.11
Civil works                                  2.03              2.00             1.27             0.04             0.20              4.04              6.66              3.63
Cf * 0.66                                    1.34              1.32             o.84             0.03             0.14              2.67              4.39              2.39
Vehicles, furniture & Equip.                 4.05              3.12             0.23             0.09              1.67             4.t3              2.73             3.50
Cf * 0.66                                    2.67              2.06             0.15             0.06              1.10             2.72              1.80              2.31
training Overseas, Research,                  -                0.11             0.31             0.10              1.35             2.05              1.13             0.76                  a
Special Study * Evaluation
Cf * 0.97                                     -                0.10             0.30             0.10              1.31             1.99              1.10             0.74
Staff Salary 4 Travelling                    4.32              9.19            13.85            16.01             19.58            23.85             27.82            32.65
Alloiance  Cf * 1.00
building Rent  m Haintenance                  -                0.10             0.10             0.18             0.18              0.36              0.31             0.42
CF * O.8U                                                     0.08             0.08             0.15              0.15             030               0.26             0.35
Vehicle Operating Expenses                   0.13              0.34             0.57             0.62              0.80             1.00              1.19              1.28
Cf a 0.80                                    0.10              0.27             0.46             0.50              0.64             0.80              0.95              1.02
Office and Other Expenses                     1.10             0.90             0.97             0.77              1.03             1.97              1.74              1.58
Cf * 0.84                                    0.92              0.76             0.81             0.65             0.86              1.65              1.46              1.33
farmers Meeting & Stucy Tours                0.05              0.38             3.55             0.41             0.61              0.88              1.60             1.42
Cf a 0.97                                    0.05              0.37             0.53             0.40             0.59              0.85              1.55             1.38
Crematoria                                   0.03              0.17             0.23             0.29             0.17              0.27              0.07             0.08
Cf - 0.79                                    0.02              0.13             0.18             0.23             0.13              0.21              0.05             0.06
Totat Firncial Cost                         31.06             51.41            73.21            65.25            96.40            160.65            167.99           179.77
Totat Econoic Cost                          22.96             38.75            55.79            50.85            74.07            120.51            126.70           136.34
hPI                                           1.82             1.72             1.59             1.48              1.38             1.25              1.10             1.00
Total Ecujic Cost in                        41.79             66.70            88.71            75.26           102.22            150.64            139.37           136.34
1992-93 Conmtant Prices



INOIA:  National Social forestry Project (Cr.1611-IN)
Annex 1; Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Com,letion Report
Table 1G.   Raj,sthan- Physical Phasing of Plantatiosm (ha)
1905-|56       1986-871        1987-M |        1988-89 1        1989-90 I       1990-91         1991-92         1992-931          Totat
Fare Forestry (Sib-total)             -            17,347          12,.452         10,508           9,537          12,336         i12,755            B,425         113,360
lproved Ber Crafting                 -              450              590             440             470             400             620              600          3,570
llousehotd farm Forestry              -               191             255             224              50              50               26              50            846
Camunity Woodlots                     -             1,002           1,002           3,438           1,485           7,195            3,590           1,765         19,477                  08
Rehabilitation of                                  3,950            3,347           7,139           3,463           8,045           6,695            6,775         39,414                  O
Degraded Forests
Strip Plantations                     303            860              360             255             200             400               60              40          2,475
Sib-total                           303          6,453           5,554           11,496           5,668          16,090           10,991          9,230          65,785
Total Area Planted                    303         23,800           1B,006          22,004          15,205          28,426          23,746           17,655        149,145



I 1DIA:   N,oni.,I  suc  ,aI  Foret.ry  Project  (Cr  1611-IN)
Atn.,A  I:   Ei i.gi, ,at aL KJ Econiouxic  Rc-Evaluation
Project Coapietion Rcport
Tablc  2A.   Uttar  Prad.sh:   Faru  Fore-stry  -  Finr.icial  Costs  und Returns per Hcctare  (Rs  'COO)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ............ ....... ... ... ... ... .. .. .. ......................... ........................................... .. .. ......... ............... ..........................
I          2            3      4-07             8       9-11           12      13-14            15          16      17-la       19-21           24      25-29       30*31            32
......._   _-  --.-   .-.  -.    -      -   .................................................-..-.-..--.--.--.-..-..-..-..-..-.--.--.--.--.--.-..-..-..-.....-..-.--.--.--.--.-..-..-..-..-..a.  ............................... '  '  '  '  ' 
Costs
P;anting  costs   1/   ,                   .871      0.380       0.380
CpimrtLonity  cost of  Isnd  2'0.200                 0.200       0.200        0.200       0.200       0.200       0.200        0.200       0.200       0.200       0.200       0.200       0.200        0.200       0.200       0.200
10tal  costs                             4.071       0.580       0.580       0.200        0.200       0.200       0.200       0.200        0.200       0.200       0.200       0.200       0.200       0.200        0.200       0.200                                  cn
Bentfits                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '.
fuelwood                                       *           -                 0.105        4.445       0.105       0.406       0.105        1.358       3.T38             -    0.490        3.535       0.049        1.064       0.049
Foles                                          -                        -           -   32.795              -                                    -   25.200              *            -   22.680                    -
Sre-ood                                                    -            -           -    5.037              -   12.125               -    3.375        8.050             -           -   13.800                           -   14.525
Lt6f  fc ter                                              0-           -       .060       O.OR0       0.060       0.060       0.060                          -    0.030        0.030       0.010       0.010        0.010       0.010
Crass                                          *           -    0.090        0.090        0.090       0.090       0.090       0.090        0.090       0.060       0.060       0.060       0.060       0.0O         0.060       0.060
fr.it                                          -           -           -            -     1.250       1.250       1.250       1.250        1.250       1.250       0.750       0.750   .0.250          0.250        0.250       0.250
kital benefits                                             -    0.090        0.255   43.677           1.505    13.931         1.505       6.073   38.298           0.840       1.330   40.335          0.369        1.384   14.894
Net benefits                             4.071    -0.580   -0.490            0.055   43.477           1.305    13.731         1.305       5.873   38.098           0.640       1.130   40.135          0.169        1.184    14.694
... ................ ........................... ....... ......... .. .... ... ........................ ............................................. .. ..... ..... .................................  ..................... 
FRf    = C.3^.
In  1992/93  prices;  incIt.es  R1.b33.25  (se(dltinis  avcrage  ps ice  for mii   of  seedlings  of
2,S00), Rs292.89  (transpruation),  R:.9G5.25  (pit  digging),  R.450  (pltaiting),  Rs280
(i.eeding and soil orkit.j), is70 (wHtering) and Rs1ffO (fertifizer application) for
Year 1. Rs380 (weeding erd wdtering) lt.a Sean 2 and 3 each.
Block  planting  by  farmeis  ass.ic1d  at  20%  of  the  area,  with  opportunity  co:.t of
iR1,GOO/ha/year.



INDIA: National Social Forestry Project (Cr.1611-1m)
Anex  1.   firnacial  Snd Economic  Re-Evaluation
Project Ccapletion Report
lable  2B.  Uttar Prada1h:   Com .ainity Uoodlot - financiat Costs ard Retums per Nectare (As '000)
~~~~~~~~........ ........... .................................................................................................. .................................................................................................................................  
I          2          3           4      5-09          10          11         12    13-14           15      16-17      18-19          20    ': 1-23          24    25-29          30         31          32
Css... .. .. .... ... .... ...... . ....... ......... ... .... . .... ... ..... ..... .... ..... ................ ... ... .................... .
Establish.  4 maint. costs 1/8.867    2.328                   2.908    0.808             - -          -                      -          -           - -                               -          .
OPrort Lnlty  cost  of  iand  210.100    0.10                 0.100       0 0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100                  0.100 0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100                   0.100
lotal  costs                           8.967       2.428      3.008       0.908    0.100    0.100           0.100      0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100              0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100   0.100    0.100    0.100
Benefits0
Iel.ood                                      -          -           -          -     0.350      1.652      0.350       7.000            -    1.309    0.245         0.245       1.316    0.245    4.200                -   1.897         0
Prtes                                        -          -           -          -           -    5.600                        -                     -           -          -    4.480                        -4.025
S t ezood                                    -          -     -           -                                 -                -          -  28.600              -          -          -          -
rasf 0c30er                                  -          -           -        .       0.1 0.     0.1000     0 0.0       0.O50    O.OSO        0.050       0.050    000  0       0.100    0.100    0.050    0.050   0.050    0.050    0.050
Crase                                        *    0.300       0.300      0.300       0.300      0.300         0.300    0.l00    0.450        0.450          0.450        0.450      0.300       0.300  0.300    0.300   0.300    0.300    0.300
frQi.at                                      -          --                                      0.500      0.500       0.500    0.500    0.500           0.500      0.500    0.500
Total  benefits                              -    0.300       0.300    0.300    0.750    8.152              1.250    7.850        1.000   30.909         1.245      1.295    6.696         0.645      4.550    0.350   2.247    4.375    0.350
,Iet tenefits                         -8.967   -2.128   -2.708   -0.608              0.650    8.052         1.150      7.750    0.900   30.809           1.145      1.195    6.596    0.545    4.450    0.250   2.147    4.275                    0.250
................... ........... ..... .               . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  . .  .     .  . t   . .  ..   . .  .  .  .  . .  . .   .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  ..  . .  .  .  . .   . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  . .  . . .
RIR s 13.8Z.
Costs based an figures  provided  by Forestry  Departmint for a typical hectare  and updated
to 1992/93 prices.
- Estited at 1s100/ha/year.



INDIA:   National Social  forestry  Project  (Cr.1611-IN)
Aarw,. 1: Financial and Econmic Re-Evaluation
Project Ccapletion Peport
Table 2C. Uttar Pradndt: Rehabilitation of DOgraded Forest - Finawciat Costs and Returns per Nactare (Rs '000)
. .................................. .................................................................. ..................... .................................... . ...... ........  ...................................... ................... ..._
I           2            3           4           S    6-09               10           11   12-14               1S   16-iS               19          20   21-29               30          31            32
Costs
Establish.  &  mint.  costs 1/5.123                     5.084        1.632       1.969                           .           -            -           -            -
Cpportunity Cost of Ied  2./o.ioo   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100    0.100
Total costs                                5.223   5.18U    1.732   2.069   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100    0.100
Beerf its                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   _
Fuelood                                                                               -     0.161        0.994       0.994        0.994       0.861        O.t61        O.S61       0.861        5.628       0.070       0.070        0.070        6.083
Paiss                                             *              *            *           *                            3.150              *                        -           -            -     2.800              -    2.80t              -
stea."w                                                                                                                                                    IS-  -  -  -  -  -  -   15.787  -   26.250   -           -   12.625                     35.337
Crass                                                         *   O.lS0   0.150   0.150   0.300   0.300   0.300   0.300   0.300   0.300   0.300   0.300   0.300   0.300   0.300    0.300
Total  benefits                                                     0.150        0.150       0.311        1.294       4.444        1.294        1.161    16.948          1.161    27.411         8.728        0.370    15.795          0.370    41.720
Net benfits                               *5.223    S.i84  -1.582  -1.919   0.211    1.194   4.344   1.194   1.061  16.848   1.061  27.311   8.628   0.270  15.695   0.270   41.620
.............................................................................. ........................................................................................................................... ......... ............. ...........
IRA    *   13.9%.
In 1992293 prices.
1S.. table 2n.



IOIA: bational Social Forestry Project (Cr.616l-IN)
Aar,ox 1: financi.. and Econosic go-Evaluation
Project Cowpletion Report
Table 2D.  Uttar Prde-sh:   Strip Plantations - Financist Costs and Returns per Nectare (as  000)
1         2         3     4-09         10    11-12    13-14           15        16    17-19         20    21-24    25-29          30        11        32
... ................. ............................. ........... ................... .................. ................................. ..................................... .................................. ..
Costs
Establish. I  aint. costs 1/6.123    5.153
Opportunity cost of t nd  2/0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.1OQ    0.100    0.100
Total costs                        6.223    5.253    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100
Benef its
Fuetwood                                *                    -   0.070    0.070    0.070    0.070    2.450    0.350    0.350    0.350    0.350    0.350    0.490                      -  13.300
Poles                                              -         -         -   7.000            -         -                   -         -   4.200           -         -   4.200                      -
Stta.ood                                -          -         -         -         -         -         -  11.637                                                    -   8.125           -  20.000
Lteaf fcdJer                                       -         -   0.025    0.025    0.025    0.025    0.025    0.013    0.013    0.013    0.013    0.013    0.013    0.013    0.013
Crass                                              -   0.150    0.150   0. I50    0.150    0.120    0.20    0.120    0.060    0.060    0.060    0.030    0.030    0.030    0.030
1ctat cenefits                                     -   0.150    0.245    7.245    0.245    0.215   14.232    0.483    0.423    4.623    0.423    0.393   12.858    0.043   33.343
met benefits                      -6.223   -5.253    0.050    0.145    7.145    0.145    0.115   14.132    0.383    0.323    4.523    0.323    0.293   12.758   -0.057   33.243
............................... .. .. .......................... ............... .. . . . ..... ....... ........ ............. .. ..................... ..................................... ...
ERA = 10.2X.
n ard -       See Table 2C.



INDIA:  National Social forestry Project (Cr.1611-IN)
Annex 1:  financiat and Econoaic Re-evaluation
Project Copletion Report
Table 2E.   Uttar Praksh:  Economic Analysis - Total Project (Rs million)                                                    (Pag  1)
.... .... .... .... ........ ...,,,, . .. ,. ..... ... ... ... .... ...  .. ... ..,,... ... ... .... ... ._      . ... . _.....................................       .
1          2          3          4           5          6          7          a          9          10         11         12         13
.. ................ .. .......... ............... ......... ............... ....... ........... .............. ....................... .......................................................
Costs
farm Forestry establish. 1/                 75.200    52.200    60.100    76.200    D0.100    92.800    58.600    54.100              12.200      6.100
C-portunity cost of lard ?2                  7.600     12.000      16.300    22.800    29.800    37.300    41.600    45.700    45.700    45.700 . 45.700    45.700
Investeant costs            3/ 78.400   205.100   196.900   255.500   332.000   387.700   433.700   332.800   298.600    12.200    12.200    12.200                     12.200
Total costs                      78.400   287.900   261.100   331.900   431.000   497.600   563.80   433.000   398.400                70.100    64.000    57.900    57.900
Renefits
....... ..                                                                                                                                                                                             ui
farm forestry                                     -     3.024      10.152     14.6U8    20.200    27.340  1493.836   847.797   897.051   1350.784  1803.297  1813.171
AcheD. of Degraded forest             -           -     0.575       1.216      2.125      7.206     12.571      15.979    21.887    41.072    48.774    47.386    58.195
Crmisnity Uoodlot                     -      0.576      1.034       1.761      3.607      5.677      7.566    10.006    12.739    28.144    27.663    48.692    53.159
Strip Plantations                     -                 0.514       1.279      1.813      2.264      2.916       3.559      4.155    28.601    25.320    16.724         18.167
Totat benefits                        -      0.576      5.147     14.408      22.233    35.348    50.399  1523.380   86.578   994.8U6   1452.541  1916.100  1942.692
Net benefits                   -78.400  -287.324  -255.953  -317.492  -408.767  -462.252  -513.401  1090.3180   488.178   924.768  1388.541  1858.200  184.792
RE sl  27. 7X .
!7/      financial costs of Rs2.239/ha (excluding seedling costs) for Year 1. Rs3l for Year 2 and
1s380 for Year 3, adjusted by SCf (0.8) for planted area in labie 2G.
lased on 25n   block planting by farmers on agricultural land with an opportunity cost of
Rsl.OO/ha/yr plus RsalO/ha/yr opportunity cost on other *uastelnJ .
See table 2f.



INDIA:   National Social Forestry  Project tCr.1611-IN)
Annex 1: tinancial ax Economic Ie-evaluation
Project Cowpfetion Report
Table 2E.    Uttar Pradeish:   Economic Analysis  - Total Project (Is million)                                                                               (Pa9c 2)
...... ............ ........ .................. ......... ............. .......... ............... I.. .... ... ................ ....................................... ....................................
14            15            16            17             18            19            20            21            22            23            24            25            26
.................................................... ...................................................................................................... ........ .......... .. ... ........... .......................................__
Costs
Form  forestry  establish.                      -              -             *             -                           -              -             -             -             -
0Fc rtunity  cost of  larsd              45.700        45.700        45.700         45.700        45.700        45.700        45.700         45.700        45.700        45.70a        45.700        45.700        45.700
Invets5 ent costs                        12.200        12.200        12.200         12.200        12.200        12.200        12.200         12.200        12.200        12.20O.       12.200        12.200        12.200
Total costs                              57.900        57.900        57.900         57.900        57.900        57.900        57.900         57.900        57.900        57.900        57.900        57.900        57.900
*eneW i ts
Farm. Forestry                        1165.667   1461.666   1949.556    1390.666   1245.027   1612.417   1421.728   1486.143    890.414    820.251   1546.724    898.201                                          909.947
Rtrso. of Degraded  forest               62.647    121.811          129.437         87.262       108.017    231.586          268.546    214.282          228.903    214.194    215.939    220.646                 180.999
ca. rnity Wo,3iot                        70.177       120.522       122.741        129.889       141.910    177.128          115.565        129.631       103.924        41.875        54.605        39.134        43.436
Strip Plantations                        26.157        68.706        64.086         40.993        33.105        50.220        53.870         55.034        37.660        16.448        21.379        17.859        18.608
Total benefits                        1324.948   1772.706   2265.820   1648.810   1530.059   2071.350   1859.70l   1885.090   1260.901   1092.77    18U8.647   1175.840   1152.989
vet beefits                           1267.048   1714.806   2207.920   1590.910   14712.159   2013.450   1801.808   1827.190   1203.001   1034.871   17180.747   1117.940   1095.089
........ ................. ......... .............. ................ ............................. .. . ...... ........................ ....... ........... .......................  ........
27            28            29            30            31             32            33            34            35            36 ..         37            38            39           40
..............- ............. . .........................  .. ...  ............................................................................................................................. ........ ........ ............................... ........
Costs
Fare  Forestry  establish.
Cpportunity  cost of Iam                 45.700        45.700        45.700         45.700        45.700        45.700        45.700        45.700        45.700         45.700        45.700        45.700        45.700       M570
Investment costs                         12.200        12.200        12.200        12.200         12.200        12.200        12.200        12.200        12.200        12.200         12.200        12.200        12.200      12.200
Totst costs                              57.900        57.900        57.900        57.900         57.900        57.900        57.900        57.900        57.900        57.900         57.900        57.900        57900    57.900
Benefits
Farm  forestry                        1277.359   1250.1.1   1379.561              759.397    761.717    594.183             359.941        371.212    511.090    489.392    520.933    260.679    238.483
lthao. ot Oeiraded  Forest               4.9.907       13.179        13.179         72.262        WV.160    201.566    253.205             11a.223       266.485    333.229    298.638    246.175                183.337
Carrs.nigy Waodlot                       3..441        29.380        20.4113        25.456        27.501        18.390        22.929        28.356        29.190        21.276         19.960        10.745         0.769
itrip Plantations                        14.736         7.962         7.8a         50.479        43.092       140.7S0        126.408        99.633        95.678       137.123        97.679        u3.72n         53.322
fotal benefits                        1380.441   1300.972   1421.043    907.594                 911.5S1       954.869        762.483       677.424    903.242    981.021             937.210    601.319    475.911
Net berefits                          1322.543   1243.072   1363.143    UK9.694                 853.631       896.969        704.583    619.524    *45.342    923.121                879.310    54].419    418.011   *.57.S7
................................................................. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ............. . . . . .     . . . . . . ... . ... . . ..... . . . . ....................................................................



INDIA: Natioal Social forestry Project (Cr.1611-IN)
Anrx 1: inancial end Economic Ac-evaluation
Project Coepletion Report
Table 2f.  Uttar Pradesh - invesctnt Costs in fintncial anI Economic Terms (As million)
984-Osl        1985-86       1986-81        1987-88       198-a89        1989-90|       1990-91        1991-92|      1992-9
field Activities (including              37.80           82.40         81.30         101.80        166.60         219.50       . 317.30         259.90        221.10
rujrser i es)
ci * 0.70                                 26.46          57.68         56.91          71.26        116.62   .    153.65          222.11         181.93        155.47
lncrewental Salaries (CF 5 1)             12.10          33.80         8.20          19.50          28.30          40.10         43.40           57.80         75.80
Travelling Allowance (CF   1)               -             3.60          4.30          5.20           6.70           9.40        - 9.50            9.80         12.80
Civil Uorks, inc. maint.                    -             9.30         43.90         60.00          69.30          24.60          53.50          31.60         31.60                      -.
CF - 0.66                                                 6.14         28.97          39.60         45.74          16.24          35.31          20.86         20.86                      UI
Vehicles. Furniture * Equip.                -             4.70          8.30          14.90         11.00          12.30           3.00           1.70          1.90
cf: 0.66                                                  3.10         5s48           9.83           7.26           8.12           1.98           1.12          1.25
operating Costs                            3.40           9.00         12.30          17.00         21.60          60.70          36.80          33.20         32.20
Cf * 0.80                                  2.72           7.20          9.s4          13.60         17.28          48.56         29."            26.56         25.76
Consultants, Training &                     -             1.20          0.80           1.80          2.50           5.00          5.40            4.60          6.90
Studies, Research
cf * 0.97                                                 1.16          0.78           1.75          2.42           4.85          5.24            4.46          6.69
Totat financial Cost                     53.30          144.00        159.10        220.20         306.00         371.60        48.90           398.60        383.30
Total Econe ic Cost                      41.28          112.68        114.48        160.74         224.32         280.92        346.98          302.53        298.63
sP 11.90                                                  1.82          1.72           1.59          1.48           1.38           1.25           1.10          1.00
Ecooic Cost in 1992-93 Prices            78.43          205.08        196.90        255.58         331.99         387.67        433.72          332.78        298.63



INDIA: National Social forestry Project (Cr.t611-11)
Anmew 1: finacial and Econmic te-evaluation
Project Copletion Report
Table ZC.  Uttar Pradesh - Physical Phasing of Plantations (ha)
*985-861       1986-87|        1987-88|        1988-89|       1969-90|        1990-911       1991-921        1992-931         Total
farm forestry                    42,000          22,000         22,667          35,000         35,000          40,000        %620,018         20,015        236,700
Pbihc Lu
Tree teni.re on                     -               -              -               162            397             146             231                           935
Covernnt Iands                                                                                                                  .
Coamu ity Woodlots -              2,399           1,911          3,027           4,093           5,760          3,331           4,025          2,748         27,294
a infled                                                                                                                                                                                _
Rehabilitation of                 4,788           5,347          2,431           5,232           7,101          6,803           7,327          5,493         44,522
Degraded forests
Strip Plantations                 4,280           3,667          2,132           2,408          3,904           2,887          3,136           1,999         24,414
Total Ptantatioru on             11,467          10,925          7,590          11,895         17,162          13.167          144719         10.24U         97,165
Pulklc Ld
Total Plantations                53,467         32,925          30,257          46,895         52,162          53,167         34,737          30,255        333,86s



INDIA:  lationat Sociat Forestry Project (Cr.1611-IN)
Annex 1: Fcoaxaic and financial Rc-Evaluation
Project Corpletion Report
Table 3A. Nimchat Pradsh: Farm Forestry - Financial Rate of Return per Neetore (is)
.................................................... .................................................................................................... ........................................... ..................................................
t          2        3-07            8           9      10-14           1S          16      17-19           20      &u-23           24      25-31               32
......................................................................................................... ....................................................                                     ...........................................................................................................
fuels.od conifer                   360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00          360.00
I'vet.owa  broadleaves             520.00     520.00       520.00      520.00      520.00      520.00      520.00      520.00      520.00      520.00      520.00      520.00      520.00          520.00
Leaf fowder                        210.00      210.00      210.00      210.00      210.00      210.00      210.00      210.00      210.00      210.00      210.00      210.00      210.00          210.00
fruit                                0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0:00        0.00        0.00           0.00
Poles                               30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00        30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00          30.00
Stecaood                           800.00      800.00      800.00      800.00      800.00      800.00      800.00      800.00      800.00      800.00      800.00      800.00      800.00          800.00
Fuelgood conifer (lt)                                -                       -           -       0.20        0.20        0.30         0.30        0.30        0.30        0.30        0.10           0.10
Futel. broadleaves (-t)                              -           -      10.61        0.25        0.2S         2.74       10.49        0.22        0.22        0.22        6.75                       S.OO
Poles (No.)                                          -           -      80.00            -           -                  80.00                   -                 -      64.00
Leaf foder (tt)                          -           -       0.70         1.40        1.40        1.40        0.70        0.70        0.70        0.70        0.70        0.70        0.70           0.70
Steoo (d 3)                                          -           -           -                                   -       16.66                    3.83           -        4.84           *           5.89
fruit Cot)                                     -                 -       0.30        0.30        0.30        0.30        0.30         0.10        0.10           -           -
Fucl.ood conif. benefits                 -           -                       -           -      72.00       72.00      108.00      108.00      108.00      108.00      108.00       36.00           36.00
Fuluw. brcedles.benefits                 -                            S  5517.20  130.00      130.00    1424.80   5454.80         114.40      114.40      114.40   3510.00                      2600.oo
Poles bereflits                          *           -           -   2400.00             -            -           -   2400.00             -                            1920.00
Leaf fodder benefits                                       147.00      294.00      294.00      294.00      147.00      147.00       147.00      147.00      147.00      147.00      147.00         147.00
Steahood benefits                        -           -           -                       -           -           -  13328.00              -   3064.00             -   3872.00             -      4712.00
Total beneits                            -           -     147.00    8211.20       424.00      496.00    1643.80  21437.80         369.40    3433.40       369.40    9557.00        183.00        7495.00
Seedt. & maintenance cost-  2M98.00                  .                       .           .                                    .           -           .
Opportsnity cost of land            So.00       50.00       50.00        50.00      50.00        50.00       50.00       50.00       50.00       so.00       50.00       50.00       so.00          50.00
met benefits                     -2948.00      -50.00       97.00    8161.20       374.00      446.00    1593.80  213a7.80         319.40    1383.40       319.40   9507.00         133.00       7445.00
........... .... ........................................ .............................................................. ..................... ............. ......................... ... ... ........... ................... ...... .. ....................  ......
FU    a  2S.7X.
Co-prising seedling price at Rs30oiedhing for 1,800 planti, tran;portation at RsO.07/
seedling for Is120. pit diggintg  for 1.800 plants at Rs0.53/plant for rsf94, planting at
RsO.26/plant for Rs4.6  and fertilizer application at t140.45/piant for Rs41O.  NEo
casualty replacement.



I NOIA:  National Social forestry Project (Cr.1611-IN)
Annex 1: f inw,icial ad Econoric Re-evaluat ion
Table 38.   Himachal Pradesh: Community Iioodlot - Financial Rate of Return per Hectare (Rs)                                            (Page 1)
..................................................................... .......................................................................................
1          2          3           4          5       6-0t           a          9          10      11-15         16          17         18
.......... ........................ ..................   ............................   ....... .......... ........   ...   ................. ..............................................................
F.et.aod conifer                 360.00     3c0.00      360.00     360.00      360.00    360.00    360.00    360.00    360.00    360.00    360.00    360.00    360.00
fot   brcaoJeaes                520.00     520.00      520.00    520.00    520.00    520.00    520.00           520.00    520.00    520.00        520.00    520.00    520.00
Leaf f%jer                       210.00     210.00      210.00    210.00       210.00    210.00    210.00        210.00    210.00       210.00     210.00    210.00    210.00
Cress                            400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00
Poles                             30.00       30.00      30.00      30.00       30.00      30.00       30.00      30.00      30.00       30.00      30.00       30.00      30.00
Steeood                          800.00    800.00       800.00    800.00    800.00    800.00    800.00    80.00    800.00    800.00    800.00    800.00    800.00
Fuel.ood conifer (at)                  *          -           -          -                                             -      0.10        0.10       0.25        0.25       0.25                                         UO
l1e.i . brodtdeaves (at)               -          -           -       0.42       0.42       0.42       14.54           -          -       0.44      15.54           -       0.46
Lerge poles (No.)                      -                      -          -                            100.00           -                     -    100.00
Crass (nt)                                        -       0.10        0.10       0.10       0.10        0.10       0.10        0.10       2.00       2.00        2.00       2.00
Leaf fodder (at)                       -                  0.95        0.95       0.95       0.95           -           -          -       0.80
Steood conifer (d)                     .          -           .          .           .          .          .           .          .
St awood broadt. (.d)                  -          -           -                                 .          .                 .          .          .          .
fI*ewood conif. benefits                                                                                                     3 -  -  -  36.00  36.00  90.00    90.00      90.00
fuele. broadl. benefits                -          -           -    218.40      218.40    218.40   7560.80                         -    228.80   8080.80             -    239.20
Large poles benefits                                                                                  000.00                                      3000.00
Lea  fotoder benefits                  -                199.50    199.50       199.50    199.50                        -          -    168.00
Grass benefits                         -           -     40.00       40.00      40.00       40.00      40.00      40.00       40.00    800.00    800.00    800.00    800.00
steswOod conif. benefits
steuwood broadl. benefi  ts                                              .                      -                      .          .           .
lotai benefits                                          239.50    457.90       457.90    457.90  10600.80         40.00      76.00   1232.80  11970.80    890.00   1129.20
Costs                           4373.00     570.00      400.00    338.00       306.00           .                      .          .
opportuzity cost of isod         100.00      100.00     100.00      100.00     100.00     100.00      100.00     100.00     100.00      100.00     100.00     100.00    100.00
Ket benfits                   U4473.00   o670.00    -260.50         19.90       51.90    357.90  10500.80        -60.00    -24.00   1132.80  11870.80    790.00   1029.20
................ ............................................ .................................................................................................
FRR - 20.8%.



INDIA: Nlational Social Forestry Project CCr1611-111)
Anne  1: financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 3C.   Uiaachat Pradesh: CcwA_nity Woodlot - finacial late of Return per Nectare (Is)                                  (Page 2)
~~~~~~- -                                                                                 . . . . . . .
19        20     21-23         24        25     26-29         30        31         32
fueiwood conifer              360.00    360.00    360.00    360.00    360.00    360.00    360.00    360.00    360.00
fuelwood, broadleaves         520.00    520.00    520.00    520.00    520.00    520.00    520.00    520.00    520.00
Leaf fodder                   210.00    210.00    210.00    210.00    210.00    210.00    210.00    210.00    210.00
Grass                         400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00
Poles                          30.00     30.00      30.00     30.00      30.00     30.00      30.00     30.00     30.00
Steewood                      800.00    800.00    800.00    800.00    800.00    800.00    800.00    800.00    800.00
fuelwood conifer (at)           0.25      0.25       0.10      0.10       0.10      0.10      0.10       0.10      0.10
fuel.. broadlcaves (at)         0.46      0.46       0.46     13.14       0.10      0.10      0.10       0.10      0.10
Large potes (Wo.)                             -              100.00
Cross (at)                      2.00      2.00       1.50      1.50       1.50      1.50       1.50      1.50      1.50
Leaf fodder (Ut)                0.80      0.80       0.80         -                 0.20      0.20       0.20      0.20
Steewood conifer (03)              -     10.56          -         -          -                5.28          -      5.28
Stesdood broadi. (a3)              -      10.00                    .         .         -          -
fuelwood conif. benefits       90.00     90.00      36.00     36.00      36.00     36.00     36.00      36.00     36.00
Fueiw. broadi. benefits       239.20    239.20    239.20   6832.80       52.00     52.00     52.00      52.00     52.00
Large poles benefits                          -         -   3000.00                    .
Lesf fodder benefits          168.00    168.00    168.00           -         -     42.00     42.00      42.00     42.00
Crass benefits                8.00    800.00    600.00    600.00    600.00    600.00    600.00    600.00    600.00
Steeood conif. benefits                8448.00          -         -          -             4224.00          -  4224.00
Stemwood broadt. benefits          -   8000.00          .         .
lotat benefits               1297.20  17745.20   1043.20  10468.80    688.00    730.00   4954.00    730.00   4954.00
Cogts                              .          .         -         -          .         .
Opportunity cost of taind     100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00
Net benefits                 1197.20  17645.20    943.20  10368.80    588.00    630.00   4854.00    630.00   4854.00
.....................................................................................................................



INDIA: National Social forestry Prolect (Cr.1611-10)
Annex 1: financial t conroic Re-Evaluation
Project Cmplet ion Report
Iabte SC.  Niachal Pradesi:  Rchabilitation of Degraded forestry - Financial Rate of Return per Nectre (tt)
.................................................. ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .... .......................
1          2           3           4           S       6.07            8       9-14          1s          16      17-19          20      21-23
.................................................... .....................................................................................................  _........ ................................................
fuelwood conifer                  360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00     360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00     360.00      360.00
Cross                             4013.00     400.00      400.00    400.00        400.00      400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400.00    400;00    400.00
Fuetwood, broadleaves             520.00      520.00      520.00    520.00        520.00     520.00      520.00      520.00      520.00    5s(..00    520.00        520.00      520.00
Poles                              30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00      30.00       W. 00       30.00      30.00       30.00
stgseood                          800.00      800.00      800.00      800.00      800.00    a80.00    800.00         800.00       o0.00    800.00    800.00    800D.00    800.00
Fuetwood conifer (ut)                                           -                 -                 -          -                   2.57            -           .       3.80
fueiw. broadleaves (at)                             --                                              -       1.00                       -       1.68            -
Crass (at)                                                  2.00        2.00        2.00        2.00        2.00        2.00        1.50       1.50        1.50        1.50        1.50
Steawood (W)                            -           -           -           *                 -           -                *           -           .           -       6.00
fuelwood conit. benefits                -                       -           -           -           -          -                 925.20            --   136.00
fuelw. broadleabenefits                            O-                                   -           -    520.00                              83.60-
Grass benefits                          -                 800.00    800.00        80.00    800.00    800.00          800.00    600.00        600,00      600.00    600.00       600.C0
S tceoood bene f i ts                                           -           -                                                                                      4800.00
total benefits                                            800.00      800. 00     800.00       00. 00   1320.00      800.00    1525.20    1473.60       600.00   6768.00        600.00
Establish. & sint, costs   4373.00            570.00      400.00      363.00      319.00                       -           -           * 
Opportunity cost of land          100.00      100.00      100.00      100.00        0.00      100.00      100.00      100.00     100.00      100.00      100.00      100.00     100.00
Met benefits                   -*473.00    -670.00        300.00      337.00      38i.00      700.00    1220.00      700.00    1425.20    1373.60        so5.00   6668.00       500.00
....................... ...................................................................                      -------------------------------
24          25      26-29          30          31          32
.......................................................................................
fuetlwood conifer                 360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00      360.00
Gross                             400.00      400.00      400.00    400.00        400.00      400.00
fuelwood. broadleaves             520.00      520.00      S20.00    520.00        520.00     520.00
Poles                              30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00       30.00
Ste_mood                          800.00      800.00      800.00    800 00        800.00      801000
fuetwood conifer (at)                   -       45 0                    4.58                  -
fuelw. broadleaves (at)              1.10           .           .           -
Crass (at)                           1.50        1.00        1.00       1.00        1.00        1.00
Steood  (da)                            --                                                     93.00
fueIwood conif. benfits                 -    1648.80            -   148.80 
fusli. broadlea.berefits          572.00                        .
Grass benefits                    600.00      400.00      400.00    400.00        400.00      400.00
St e.ood b efI  ts                      -           '                       -           '  74400.00
Total bnefits                    1172.00    2048.80       400.00   2048.80        400.00  74800.00
Establish. & mint. costs                            .           .
Oportunity cost of lard           100.00      100.00      100.00      100.00      100.00      100.00
Net benefits                     1072.00    1948.80       300.00    1948.80       300.00  74700.00
FRI * 14.9o.



INDIA: National Social Forestry Project (Cr.1611-mN)
AnneA 1:   financial and Economic  Re-evaluation
Piuject Coaialetion Report
lable 30.    Himachal Pradcsh:  Econic  Analysis - Total Project (Rs million)                                                                         (Page 1)
.......... ............... .................................... .... .............------------------- -- --- ---------- ---....------ --- -...................--------- --- -- ---------- --- -- -- --- ---.....--------.....................-...-.
1           2           3           4           5           6           7           8           9          10          11          12          13          14
.. .. ........ ........... .................................. ................................................................. ................... ........................ .....................  ....... ........ ..
Costs
Form Forestry,  establish.             7.510    10.430    14.570    14.150    16.000    10.830                 5.590       4.090
Investment costs  I/                 69.120   134.900   139.460   16l.050   119.650   168.770   178.630   195.280                       1.880       1.880      1.880        1.880       1.880       1.880
Opportunity cost of land   /  1.150                2.560       4.920       6.600       8.700      10.620    12.560    13.910    13.910    13.910    13.910    13.910    13.910    13.910
Total costs                          77.780   147.890   158.950   183.780   204.350   190.220   196.780   213.280                     15.790    15.790    15.790    15.790    15.790    15.790
Benef its
Farm forestry                                                  0.535       1.279       2.317       3.324       4.465    34.591    47.442    65.558    66.176    75.892    58.335    39.827                                            LO
Cvrmunity Woodlot                           -           -      1.305       4.003       7.135      10.377    13.975    73.095    83.701    96.665    97.614   121.866   120.249   147.945
Rehab. of Degrad. Forest                                -      0.950       1.672       2.782       3.602       4.447       6.183       8.121        9.496      9.307       9.324        9.501    10.131
Private Wasteland                           -      0.427       1.345       2.t18       4.193       5.633       6.617       6.941        7.230       9.982    13.163    16.873    15.319    15.406
Total benefits                              -      0.427       4.135       9.772    16.427    22.936    29.505   120.809   146.495   181.701   186.260   223.954   203.404   213.308
met benefits                          77.780  -147.463  -154.815  -174.008  -187.923  -167.284  -167.275   -92.471   130.705   165.911   170.470   208.164   187.614   197.5118
--. . .....-----.---.-.. .... .--.. -.-. .-..-.------------......-.----------..---...-------..---. ...-.------.---...-.--.-..---.--.-.--.--..- .- . ...--
15          16          17          18          19          20          21          22          23          24          25          26          27          28
Costs
form  Forestry, establish.                  -                                                -           -           -           .                       .
Investment costs                       1.880       1.880       1.880       1.880       1.880       1.880       1.860       1.880       1.880       1.880       1.880       1.880       1.880       1.880
oWortunity cost of lard               13.910    13.910    13.910    13.910    13.910    13.910    13.910    13.910    13.910    13.910    13.910    13.910    13.910    13.910
Total costs                          15.790    15.790         15.790    15.790    15.790    15.790    15.790    15.790    15.790    15.790    15.790    15.790    IS.790    15.790
seni i ts
farm  forestry                       39.301   101.891   131.594   174.679   170.402   196.794   144.784    96.137    77.722    72.109    76.795    86.467    80.994    81.960
Cns.reity woodlot                   100.418   112.524   132.18N    155.11.1   149.869   260.651   266.048   306.135   302.892   266.193   263.588   38. 171  308.949   141.067
Rehab. of Degrad. f.arest             10.365      10.2?9      10.IO        1O.ISS      9.536    16.922    16.061          18.119    14.128    11.1/8    17.4317    24.531             17.415       7.974
Private Wastelaind                    12.102       9.447       9.14S       8.316    11.6416    19.575    25.990    22.650    22.289    15.6f5    10.410                    9.474       7.696       7.908
lotal benefits                      222.187   234.0t1   285.0/1   348.216   343.492   493.945   452.884   443.638   417.032   367.776   368.211   428.648   415.054   238.910
Iet benefits                        206.397   218.301   269.281   332.426   327.702   478.155   437.094   427.845   401.242   351.986   352.441   412.858   399.264   223.120
..................................... ...................................................................... .. ...... ....... ............ .. ....... ......... ............................  ......  . . ......................
.1'
ERR * 12.oX.
Costs after Year 8 are estimated at Rs90/ha/yr for maintenance of plantations on Piblic
lands, 11 of total expenaiture for civi; works and lOX of staff salaries aid vehicle amd
office expenses.
Psl,000/ha/yr on  farm forestry area plas RslUt/ha/yr oripstair  nidw.;.



INDIA: Nationat Social Forestry Project (Cr.1611-IN)
Anrex It Fir.nciat aimd Econ.ic Re-evaluotion
Project Completion Report
Table  30.    Nionchat Prodrsb:   Ecnomic  Analysis  - Totat Project (Rs willion)                                                                                    (Page 2)
.......... ................ ................................................. ................................................................................ ...................................
29           30           31           32            33           34           35            36           37           38           39           40
.................... ............................................................. .. .......................................................................................
Costs
Form  Forestry.  esteblish.
Investment  costs                         1.8U0         1.880        1.880        1.880         1.880        1.880        1.880         1.880 M.880               1.880        1.880        1.U80
Opportunity  cost of  lend               13.910        13.910       13.910       13.910        13.910       13.910       13.910       13.910        13.910       13.910       13.910       13.910
Total costs                              15.790        15.790       15.790       15.790       15.790        15.790       15.790       15.790       15.790        15.790       15.790       15.790
Benef its
farm  Forestry                           57.501       33.141       25.992       33.994        43.705       57.433        54.596       59.970    40.235          20.666        14.882              *                                                t)
Cu nrmnity  woodlot                     131.766    iT3.189    179.062            98.650       96.523   104.220           93.909   106.760   100.623             57.975        53.456
Rehab. of Degrad.  Forest                 8.011        10.943       11.258       97.317       72.741    108.561          81.546       85.512   108.459   195.640   104.959
Private  Wasteland                        8.029         8.073        8.102        8.102         7.559        6.394        4.525         2.969        1.415        0.532        0.207
Total benefits                         205.307   225.347   224.414   238.063   220.528   276.608   234.575   255.211   250.731   274.813   173.504
Met benefits                            189.517   209.557   208.624   222.273   204.738   260.818   218.785   239.421   234.941   259.023   157.714    -15.790
.. ................................................................ .. .......................................................................................



INDIA: xationat Social forestry Project (Cr.1611-11)
Annex 1: financial  nd Economic Re-evaluation
Project Coqletion Report
Table 3E.  Iliachal Pradesh - Invcstmnt Costs in Financial w  Economic Term  (Rs mitlion)
._________________________I_ 1985-861  1986-871 |      97-8            1988-89         19b9-90         1990-91           1991-921        1992-91
Plantation                                45.41            74.3Z           81.91           96.59            97.11          12z.14            134.45          158.43
Cl * 0.70                                 31.79            52.02           sr.34           67.61            67.97           87.60            94.12           110.90
Staff Salaries                             4.77            16.54           17.97           24.93            45.74           33.48            41.29            50.60
Staff Travelling Allowances                0.67             1.39            1.66            2.49             4.24            2.00             3.11             3.93
Civil Works                                0.03             4.87           10.32            9.58             6.07            5.i7            17.98            18.35
Cf * 0.66                                  0.02             3.21            6.81            6.32             4.00            3.48             11.87           12.11                      O
Suilding Rent 4 Maintenance               0.003            0.15              -              1.28             1.20            1.01             2.95             4.55                      W
Cf * 0.84                                 0.002             0.13             -              1.07             1.01            0.85             2.48             3.82
Vehicles                                   0.13             1.71            2.18            0.88             0.13           0.005            0.006             2.67
CF * 0.66                                  0.09             1.13            1."             0.58             0.89           0.003            0.004             1.76
furniture & Equipment                     0.010            0.66              -              0.74             0.34            0.14             0.08             0.26
CF * 0.66                                 0.008             0."              -              0.49             0.22            0.09             0.05             0.17
Research A Training Expenses                -               1.23            0.43             1.28            1.42            1.76             0.49             2.49
CF a 0.97                                                   1.19            0.42             1.24            1.38            1.71             0.48             2.42
Vehicle Operating & Maint.                 0.31             0.83            0.69            3.14             0.91            1.64             2.45             3.30
CF * 0.80                                  0.24             0.66            0.55            2.51             0.73            1.31              1.96            2.64
Office S Other Expenses                    0.46             1.30            1.30            3.19             3.55            3.61             4.55             4.09
Cf * 0.64                                  0.39             1.08            1.09            2.68             2.96            3.03             3.82             3.44
Fuel Saving Devices                         -              0.81             0.54            0.31             1.29            1.86             4.07             4.42
Cf * 0.79                                                   0.64            0.43            0.25             1.02            1.47             3.21             3.49
Totel finaciat Cost                       51.79           103.81          117.00          144.4            162.00          175.91           211.42           253.09
Total. Ecriei Cost                        37.98            78.43           87.71          110.17           130.18          135.02           162.39           195.28
WPI                                        1.U2             1.72            1.59            1.48             1.38            1.25             1.10             1.00
Ecriic Cost in 1992-93                    69.12           134.90          139.46          163.05           179.65          16_.77           178.63           lff.28
Prices



IWDIA: National Social Forestry Project (Cr.1611-IN)
Annex 1: financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Coeipletion Report
lable 3f.   Hims,hal Priesh - rhysical Phasing of PIantations (ha)
1985- 86        1986-871         1987-M |        198d-89|        1989-901        1990-91 |        1991-92         1992-93           Total
Farm Forestry                       4,550           6,324           8,829            8,565           9,698           6,567        d  3,386            2,482          50,401
Private Wasteland                     890           1,913           3,068            2,553           2,551            1,449             534             339          13,297
Tree Tenure                            39              67              219             133             118              140                                             716
ConTnuity Lands                     6,810           7,873            9,167           8,561          10,972           10,149          12,965          13,749          80,246
Coverruent Wastetand                1,484           1,128            1,735           1,281           1,321            1,747           3,260           1,754          13,710                        C0
CRDF)
Silvi-pastorat (ROF)                  -               -                                              1,124            2,441             995           1,348           5,908
lotal Area Ptanted                 13, M           17,305          28,018           21,093          25,784           22,493          21,140          19,672         164,278



INDIA: National Social forestry Project (Cr.1611-IN)
Annex 1: financial and Econamic Re-evaluation
Project CoaApletion Report
Table 4A.   Gujarat:  farm Forestry - financiat Costs ad Returns per Hectare (Rs  000)
1       2         3        4        5    6-07          8    9>10   11-14          15       16   17-19   20-23         24   25-31         32
Costs
Establish. 3 maint. costs_  5.415    1.020   0.750                             -             -             -            -                       -            -
Land opportunity cost 2/    0.600   0.600   0.600    0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600
Total costs                     6.015    1.620    1.350   0.600   0.600   0 600   0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600   0.600                                                0
Benef i ts
Fuetwood                             -        -        -   0.165    0.165   0.165    3.705            -        -   2.700   3.457           -        -   2.070         -
Poles                                         -        -         -        -        -  30.450          -        -        -  24.300          *           19.440
Sterm.ood                                                   -        -             -             -             -   2.400   2.808               -        3.560          -   6.040
Barboo                               -                           -        -   0.336   0.888   0.336   0.336   0.336   6.048   0.336   0.336   6.048   0.336   6.048
Leaf fodder                                   -        -         -   0.025   0.025    0.025   0.025   0.025   0.025               -        -        -        -
Grass                                -        -   0.090   0.090   0.090   0.090   0.090   0.090   0.090   0.090   0.090   0.090   0.090   0.090   0.090   0.090
fruit                                -                 -         -        -   2.400   2.400   2.400    1.500   1.500    1.500    1.500              -             -        -
Total benefits                       *        -   0.090    0.255    0.280   3.016  37.558   2.851    1.951    7.051  38.203    1.926   0.426  31.208   0.426  12.178
Net benefits                   -6.015  -1.620  -1.260   -0.345   -0.320   2.416  36.958   2.251    1.351   6.451  37.603    1.326  -0.174  30.608  -0.174  11.578
. .............. .........................----- ---------------         ----------------------------------------       - ---------------------..--.-...-----.-.--..--.--.-
Switching Values at 12.0X
Appraisal       Switching       Percentage
Stream                Value           Value           Change
.. ... ... . ..... .. . . . . . . . .. . . .    . . . .  . . .
Blot                  33.233          11.049         -66.754%
CFlOT                 11.049          33.233         200.788S
fRR  =   31 1%                                                                                                           ......   -  ................................----------------
31.11.                                                                              W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~et Presenit Value at 0CC   12.0X1  22.2
I/      Costs in 1992/93 constant price for a typical hectare estisuted at Rs1,125 (seedlings                           INternal Rate of Return   312O.X1
2,500  a RsO.45 to RsO.5  per ieedling3; Ri400 (tranmp)/t); Rts,375 (pit digging); Rs625                       Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return = 37.5X
(pit planting); Rs600 (weeding and soil working); RsS40 (watering); Rs/50 (fertilizer
application) for Year 1; Rs1,020 for one weeding anid water ing in Year 2 and Rs750 for
one watering and weeding in Year 3.
-/       60X of the area in btock planting .) Rsl,000/ha.



INDIA:  National  Social forestry  Project tCr.161111N)
Arnex  1:   financial and Economic  Re-evaluation
Project Corpletlon Report
Table 48.    Gujarat:   Coanu ,ity WoodLot (Rainled  and  Irrigated) - financial  Costs  wv   Returns per Nectare  (Rs   000)
...................... ........................ .. ... ................. ............................. ........ .. ............... ......................... .................................... ............................ ........
1          2          3          4          5           6          7          8          9         10          11         1Z         13         14         15         16
..............................              .................................................................................................      ...  ..  ...   ..  ...  ...   .-...     ..  .-.                    .-
Costs
Establish. A saint. costs!'..827   10.647    4.559    3.157    2.080    0.343                                                                      -         -                                   
Opportunity  cost of  land  2/0.100                0.100    0.100        0.100         0.100       0.100      0.100        0.100      0.100     0.100      0,100        0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100
Total costs                            4.927   10.747    4.659           3.257      2.180       0.443    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100
Benefits
ue  OO                                      -          ,                      ,          -    0.675       0.675      1.147    0.675   12.900                -          -           -          -    1.875    0.997
Poles                                        .          -           -          -                      -          -    1.200                        -         -           -          -          - 
s t eiood                                                                                                                   -          -          -          -             .                        2.400
Bantboo                                                       -          -                      4.176            -                                -          -    4.176             .
Leaf focdder                                 *          ,          -    0.060    0.060         0.060    0.060    0.060    0.060    0.060    0.060    0.060    0.060    0.060    0.060    0.060                                                            co
a'
Grass                                        -    0.090    0.090         0.090    0.090              -           -               0.090    0.090    0.090    0.090    0.090                                -    0.090
fruit                                                   -          -    0.120    0.120    0.120    0.120    0.920    0.920                  0.920    0.920    0.920    0.920    0.920    0.920    O.J00
lotal benefits                               -    0.090    0.090         0.270    0.270        5.031       0.855    3.327    1.745   13.970             1.070    5.246        1.070    0.980    5.255    2.907
met benefits                          -4.927  -10.657   -4.569   -2.987   -1.910               4.588    0.755    3.227    1.645   13.870    0.970    5.146    0.970    0.8M0    5.155    2.807
,..... ...... ............. ....................... ........................................... ...... ........ .. .. ....... . ......... ........... .... ..... ...... ......... .. .
17         18         19         20    21-23            24         25         26    27-29            30    31-32
Costs
Establish. & uaiant. costs                              .                      -          -          -                     -           -          -          -
opportunity  cost of lard              0.100      0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100
Totat costs                            0.100      0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100             0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100
Benefits
fueltood                               o.472    0.472    0.472   10.320                   -    0.405            -          -           -    1.115
Poles                                        -          -          -                      -    0. 750           -          . 
St     ood                                   -                     -                      *          -          -    160               -
Raatoo                                       -    4.176            -           -          -    4.176            -          -
Leaf fodder                            0.060    0.060    0.020    0.020    0.020    0.020    0.020                          -          -          -
Grass                                  0,090    0.090              -           -    0.090            -
fruit                                  0.800    0.800    0.800    0.800                   -          .          -          -           -          -
Total  benefits                        1.422    5.598         1.292   1l.140        0.110      5.351      0.020       1.680            -    1.125
met benefits                            1.322    5.498        1.192   11.040    0.010    5.251   -0.00    1.580   .0.100                   1.025   -0.100
,...   ............................... ............................................. ...... ............. .. .. ......... ............... .. ...... ....... .. ....
fRR   -   9.2S.
I/        Irrigated  planted  area  is about 22X  of raigifed planited area  and cost  is weighted  average
per hectare; costs provided by fuorstry Departoiwnt for a typical hectare, updated to
1992/93 prices using wPi.
-          Es;imated  at Rs1OO/ha/year on non-farm  forestry  land.



INDIA: National Social Forestry Project (Cr.1611-IN)
Annex 1:  Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table 4C.   Gujarat:  Rehabilitation of Degraded forestry - Financial Costs and Returns per tiectare (Rs '000)
.............................  ........... ....................... .... ....... .. ..... ........... .. ............... ...... ......... .............................................................
1        2        3         4         5        6         7         8         9       10        11       12        13        14       15        16
costs
Establish. & maint. costs 1/3.213    5.187    1.621    0.772    0.142    0.142                                               -         -         -        -                            -
opportunity cost ofi land  -1/0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100   0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100   0.100
Total costs                      3.313    5.257    1.721    0.872    0.242    0.242   0.100   0.100    0.100    0.100   0.100  %4.100    0.100   0.100    0.100    0.100
Benef its
fuetwood                               -                  -        -         -   0.607   0.607   1.027   0.607   11.557                -    --  -                        1.650   0.892
Poles                                  -             -         -             -         -         -   0.600          -         -                  -        *         -         -   0.600
Stujajood                              -        .         .        -         -         -        -         -         -        .         .            -                    2.160         -
5wboo               ~                        ~                                    2 80  -.  -    -                                     - 2.880  -2 SW*                       -         -                            OD
Leaf fodder                                          0 .050   0.050    0.050   0.050    0.050    0.050    0.050    0.050   0.050    0.050    0.050    0.050    0.050   0.050
Grass                                  -   0.135    0.135    0.135    0.135            -        -         -   0.180    0.180   0.180    0.180    0.180              -         -   0.090
Total benefits                         -   0.135    0.185    0.185    0.185    3.537   0.657    1.677   0.837  11.787   0.230   3.110    0.230    0.050   3.860    1.632
Net benefits                    -3313   -5.152  -1.536   -0.687  -0.057    3.295    0.557    1.577    0.737  11.687   0.130    3.010   0.130   -0 .050   3.760    1.532
:............  -........ -- -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- -- - --  - --  - --  - --  - --  - --  - --  - --  - --  - --  - --  - --  - --  -
17       18        19       20        21    22-23        24        25        26   27-29         30   31-32
Costs
Establish.     maint. costs                     -         -        -         -                  .         -         -
Opportunity cost of land         0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100   0.100   0.100    0.100   0_100   0.100    0.100   0.100    0.100
Total costs                      0.100    0.100    0.100   0.100    0.100    0.100   0.100   0.100    0.100   0.100   0.100    0.100
Benefits
Fuelwood                         0.427   0.427   0.427   9.285               -         -   0.367          -         -        -   1.012          -
Poles                                  -        -         -         -        -         -   0.480          -                  -         -
Steasood                                        -                                               -              1.440         -         -        -
Samboo                                 -   2.880          -         -        -         -   2.880
Leaf fodder                       0.050    0.050    0.010    0.010    0.010    0.010   0.010              -
Grass                             0.090    0.090    0.090           -        -   0.090   0.090    0.090    0.090   0.090   0.090    0.090
Total benefits                   0.567   3.447    0.527   9.295    0.010    0.100   3.827   0.090    1.530   0.090    1.102    0.090
lMet benrfits                     0.467    3.347    0.427   9.195   -0.090   -0.000   3.727  -0.010    1.430  -0.010    1.002   *0.010
.--.-----.-.------.-----.-....-        ...-.----------....    .--------......----------..----...-..--.---.---..            --  ....  ...--.--.....
FRR * 13.98X.
Costs, as provided by the Forestry Department for a typical hectare. updated to 1992/93
prices terms.
See l ble 46.



INDIA: National Social forestry Project (Cr.1611-IN)
Aninex I: ; inaincial and Economuic Re-evaluation
Project Coe;d(et ion Report
Tabte 40.   Gujatat:  Strip Plantatiore  - finavcial  Costs andi Returns per Hectare (Rs '000)
1        2        3         4        5         6        7         8        9       10   1l-'13        14        15       16   17-19         20
Costs
Establish. I maint. costsl /8.231  16.634   4.511    1.754   0.596   0.596-                                                         -         -        --
0pp-artunity cost of land  2 /0.100    0.100   0.100   0.100    M.OO   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100
Total costs                      8.331  16.734   4.611    1.854   0.696   0.696   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100*.h.0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100
Sene fits
fuetwood                              -                                     - 0.720   0.720    1.140   0.720  13.8.67                             1.950   1.065   0.510  11.137
Poles                                 -        -         -                  -        -         -   0.600          -                 .                           -         - 
stecbwood                                                -        -         -                                              - -                    2.560
Leaf fodder                           -- 0.060   0.060   0.060   0.060   0.060   0.060   0.060   0.040   0.040   0.040   0.040   0.040                                                                                0
Grass                                          - 0.162   0.162   0.162               -         -        -   0.216   0.216   0.216             -        . 0.108   0.108                                                 c
Total benefits                                      0.162   0.222   0.222   0.780   0.780    1.800   0.996  14.143   0.256   0.040   4.580   1.213  0O.658  11.137
wet benefIts                    -8.331 -16.734  -4449   1.1632  -0.474   0.084   0.680    1.700   0.896  14.043   0.156  -0.060   4.480   1.113 '0.558  11.037
21-25        26   27-29        30   31-32
Costs
Estabtish.   mialint. costs 
opportunsity cost of tand        0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100
Total costs                      0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100   0.100
Benefits
Fueihjood                             -        -         -   1.215
Poles                                           -        -        -
Steffwood                             - 1.728                     -
Leaf foder                       0.010   0.010   0.010   0.010   0.010
Grass                            0.117   0.117   0.117   0.J17   0.117
Total berefits                   0.127    1.855   0.127    1.342   0.127
Net benefits                     0.027    1.755   0.027    1.242   0.027
FRR s 1.7%.
1/       Costs, based on figures provided by forest Departmient for- a typiCal hectare, updated to
21  1992/93 prices.
V        See table 48.



INDIA: Natioaial Social forestry Project (Cr.1611-lIl)
Annex 1:  financial aud Ecorioic Re-evaluation
Project Coqpletion Report
lable 4E.   Cujarat:  Econwic Analysis - Total Project (Rs million)                                                 (Page 1)
. ..---...--.------.----.-......-..--.........--..-.---.--..--------..---..    -..    .    ---.--..----....---.-..-.-......    .....--...---------...----.-....-------.--.-
1         2          3          4          5         6          7          8         9         10         11         12         13
-.. . . ... ... ... ....--...--..... ...--..-.-..... --------.. --.-.... ------.. . ......--.----.-. .-. .---.
Costs
Establish. cost Farm for. 1 /64.600    78.200    72.900  1I4.300   126.800   135.200   140.200   116.400    35.700    13.200
Opportunity cost of iand  21 10.400    20.300    28.000    44.100    58.500    73.700    90.100   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500
Other investment costs    3 A37.630   130.460   170.480   174.300   195.780   2Z2.150   265.040   256.310    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110
Total costs                   212.630   228.960   271.380   342.700   381.080   431.050   495.340   476.210   152.310   i29.810   116.610   116.610   116.610
enef its
farm forestry                       -          -      1.355     5.159      8.933    54.422   100.740   656.644   712.409   644.904  1141.303  1126.394  1165.316
Rehab. of Degraded forest           *      0.627      1.357     2.171      3.157    19.523    19.672    31.141    38.340    88.266    89.315   124.549   141.494
Private vastetand                    *         *          *     0.831      1.739      2.991      5.270    33.545    38.631    39.222    74.234    42.835    71.297
Camunnity Woodlot                   *      0.348      0.606     1.549      2.394    21.576    20.148    31.868    39.859    90.799    87.432   109.481   122.309                              CD
Total benefits                      -      0.974      3.318     9.710    16.223    98.512   145.831   753.197   829.239   863.190  1392.283  1403.259  1500.417
Met benefits                 -212.630  -227.986  -268.062  -332.990  -364.857  -332.538  -349.509   276.987   676.929   733.380  1275.673  1286.649  1383.807
, .... ........ . ...... ........... . ....- - -- -,. ---              - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - -
.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.-----------..... . --------------------------------------------.-----.-----....
14        15         16         17         18        19         20         21         22        23         24         25         26
Costs
Estabilsh. cost Farm For.                      .          .                                          -                                          -
Opportunity cost of land    103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500
Other investment costs         13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.10    13.110    13.110    13.110
Total costs                   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610
Senefits
farm Forestry                1189.629  1039.427   949.858   894.966   806.946  1267.283  1178.919  1167.836  1172.827   833.023   622.205   577.193   424.810
Rehab. of Degraded forest    92.984   148.184   167.958   186.366    83.721    79.962   100.957   110.084   124.841   103.493   100.208   125.792   128.071
Private Wastelasn              72.3K4    95.202    52.912    53.677    68.997    77.496    65.727    87.785    92.689    64.179    29.484    31.100    33.769
Cwmunity Woodlot               99.697   131.893   134.136   133.494    92.423    89.054   108.959   104.549   101.911    90.827    99.337    97.368    85.387
lotal benefits               1454.693  1414.707  1304.864  1268.503  1052.087  1513.794  1454.562  1470.254  1492.268  1091.522   851.233   831.453   672.037
Ret benefits                 1338.083  1298.097  1188.254  1151.893   935.477  1397.184  1337.952  1353.644  1375.658   974.912   734.623   714.843   555.427
f    ERR  *  23.1X.
Based on cost Rs4,290 (Year 1), RsI,020 (Year 2) ard Rs7SO (Year 3), adjusted by SCF of 0.8
on farm forestry area at 18X of arnual national area (see lable 4G). Cost of seedling
elcluded to avoid double counting.
21      Rsl,000/ha/yr on 60X of farm forestry represented by block planting adjusted by SCf of 0.8.
See Tabtle 4f.  maintenance cost fi TOA Year 1993/94 at Rs90/ha/yr on non-faim forestry
plantations, IX of total civil works and 10% of staff salaries, vehicle operating expenses
and office expenses of 1992/93 to continue.



INDIA:  National Social Forestry Project (Cr.1611-i1)
AnneA 1:  Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table 4E.   Gujarat:  Econoic Analysis - Total Project (as million)                                               (Page 2)
27        28         29         30        31         32        33         34        35         3.         37        38         39        40
Costs
Establish. cost farm for.                                -          -               -         - .  -  .                                          .   
Opportunity cost of land    103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500, 103.500   103.500   103.500   103.500
Other investlent costs         13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110    13.110
lotal costs                  116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610   116.610
enef I ts
Farm Forestry                797.259   741.408   744.954   788.984   607.838   240.710   229.785   178.850   326.536   295.063   287.040   294.423   215.229
Rtbab. of Degraded forest   134.912    24.990    39.182    53.484    61.061    24.161    26.239           7.759    10.568    13.366    14.120       1.953      1.025
Private Wasteland             54.673    31.718    54.457    56.616    66.191    21.602    30.364    12.1U           18.500    17.646    19.120      1.767      0.946
Carmn i ty Woodlot            82.386    23.945    29.305    37.583    37.471    11.693    12.637          3.716     4.629      5.686      5.724                    -
Total benefits              1069.228   822.061   867.898   936.667   T72.561   298.166   299.025   202.490   360.233   331.762   326.003   298.143   217.200
Met benefits                 952.618   705.451   751.288   820.057   655.951   181.556   182.415    85.880   243.623   215.152   209.393   181.533   100.590  -116.610
............-.------...--.-.....-.....---.-..-...-.-..-.......-..-.-..-.--..-..--.-------.------.---..--.---.----...-------. . . ................--...- . . .. .........-....



INDIA:  National Social Forestry Project (Cr.1611-1N)
Annex 1:  Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table 4F.  Cujarat - Investmcent Costs in finacial aid Ecrmic Terms iRs million)
195-86           19R-81           1987-88          198-89     0     1969-90     -     199-91      |    1991-921          1992-93
Field Activities                            95.44            97.41            114.08           149.92           172.24           UL 34             313.67            337.23
CF   0.70                                   66.81             68.19            79.86           104.94           120.57           159.14            219.57            236.06
Staff Salaries                               1.21              1.42             1.38             1.77             2.17             2.26              2.94              4.92
Staff Travellirng Allovances                 2.66             0.20              1..40            4.01             5.95             2.83              0.12              0.15
Civil wiorks, 81dg. A Iaint.                 0.58              1.12             5.73             3.21             8.87             7.               14.54              4.79
CF * 0.66                                    0.38             0.74              3.78             2.12             S.85             5.05              9.60              3.16
Vehicles, Furniture A Equip.                 0.37             0.55              0.09             1M               1.41             2.09              0.52              0.37
CF * 0.66                                    0.24             0.36              0.06             0.12             0.93             1.38              0.34              0.24                    %0
Vehicle Operating 4 Maint.                   4.82             5.05              4.85             4.57             5.42             5.75              6.53              7.40                    1
Cf * 0.80                                    3.86             4.04              3.88             3.66             4.34             4.60              5.22              5.92
Consultancy Services, Studies,               0.45             0.93              1.46             1.19             2.12             2.54              3.26              4.36
Training 4 Research
CF * 0.97                                    0.46              0.90             1.42             1.15             2.06             2.46              3.16              4.23
Office ard Other Expenses                      -                               18.38                               -                 -
CF * 0.84                                                                      15.4               -
Totel firnaial Cost                        105.56           106.38            147.27           164.85           198.18           250.47            341.58            359.22
lotal Ecrnic Cost                           75.62            75.85            107.22           117.77           141.87           177.72            240.95            254.68
WPI                                          1.82              1.72             1.59             1.48             1.38             1.25              1.10              1.00
Ecol  ic Cost in 1992-93                   137.63           130.46            170.48           174.30           195.78           222.15            265.04            254.68
Prices



INDIA:  National Social Forestry Project (Cr.1611-I1)
Arnnex 1:  financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Conpletion Report
Table 46.   rujarat - Physical Phasing of Plantations (ha)
1985-86         1986-87         1987-M          1988-89         1989-90         1990-911        1991-92         1992-93 |        Total
Farm Forestry                    104,533         101,866          75,466         165,466         152,866         153,666       t-?163,600        122,733       1,040,196
Private Wasteland                  3,405           3,721           3,525           7,585           3,523           6,992           7,129           8,208          44,088
C srunity woodlots                 3,839           2,932           2,504           3,665           3,262           4,380           5,337           5,549          31,468
Rainfed
Corm.anity woodiots                  989             659             940             879             867             763             981             811           6,888
Irrigated
Tree Fodder                          -               *                               130              80             474             285             309           1,278
CovenrrIt wastetlw
Plantation
- RDF                              S,804           4,615           5,825           6,973           4,820           8,805          12,880          14,239         63,961
- Others: roadside,                3,243           1,978           2,530           2,769           2,453           2,523           3,186           3,163         21,845
canal, etc.
Total Area Planted               121,812         115,771          90,790         187,467         167,871         177,603         193,396         155,012       1,209,724



93
INDEA. National Socal Forestty Project (Cr.1611.IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-Evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table 5. Financial Prices (Rs) '/
Unit         Rajasthan          Uttar         Himachal          Gujarat
I . Pradesh          Pradesh
Fuelwood:                                    750             700               -               750
-Conifer                     mt               -                -              360               -
- Broadleaf                  mt               -                -              520               -
Stemwood                     m3             1,125           1,250             800              800
Poles                        no.              30               35              30               30
Grass                        mt              200             300              400             450
Leaf fodder                  mt              850             100              210               -
Bamboo pole                  no.              -                -               -                12
Fruit                        mt             2,000           2,500             200            2,000
Wage rate                person/day           40               25              30               32
Prices represent unit vatues which growers would receive at stuLi; economic price Is derived by tiking
8OX of financial price, using SCF of 0.5.



INOIA: Hational Sociat forestry Project (Cr.1611-IN)
Annex 1:  financial and Econoiic Re-evaluation
Project Cotrpletion Report
Table 6.   Economic Analysis - lotal Project (Rs million)                                                          (Page 1)
t        2         3         4          5          6           7        a         9        10
. ..... ..... ..... .. ......    -- - - --- - -  ........ ............. .... .. ....... .......... ..... ....... ...
Costs
hirrilat Pradosh     77.780  11.7.890 I3  18.950  183.7130   ?04.350   190.2Z0   196.780  213.280   15.790   15.790
'GuJaral            212-630  228.960  271. SiOO  342./01J   31iJ.080   431.050   495.3140  476.210  152.310  129.810
Utt    radesi        7B.40u  2it7.900  26I.100  351.900   431.000   497.600   563.800  433.000  398.400   70.100
Rajiahstan           41.7YO  14.1.100  151.100  137.060   1t1.320   224.640   219.810  202.600   34.950   31.830
Total Costs         410.600  806.550  843.130  995.439  1177.740  1343.500  1475.780 1325.080  601.430  24753q \
Benefits                                                                                                                                                                        '.
Himchat Pradesh                 0.427    4.135    9.772        16.427    22.936    29.505  120.809  146.495  181.101
Gujarat                         0.974     3.318    9.Z10    16.223    98.512   145.831  753.191  829.239  863.190
Uttar Pradesh                   0.576    5.147   14.408    22.233    35.348    50.399 1523.380  886.578  994.868
Rajashstaf                           -    0.010    1.820    12.380    23.530    40.600   53.800   73.470  226.710
lotal Benefits                  1.977   12.610   35.710    67.263   180.326   266.335 2451.180 1935.780 2266.460
tlet Benefits      -410.600 -804.573 -830.520 -959.729 -1110.480 -1163.180 -1209.450 1126.090 1334.350 2018.930
.................... ------------------------------------------------......
11       12        13        14        15        16        17        18        19        20
15.790   I5 790   15/VO  15.790   15.790   15.790   15.790   15.790   15.790   15.790
llt.t610  116.610    I(.f 10t  116.t.10  116,610  116.610  116.610  116.i'10  116.t.\0  11i .610
tC t(I    5YN901   57.901   5/.vuO 5K.900   51.900   51.900   57.900   51.900   57.900
29.Iit,  29.7I 1    ./30    9       ?9.   730 Z9.7S0   29.7$0   29.730   29.130   29.730   29.730
226.130  220.030  220.030  220.030  220.030  220.030  220.030  220.030  220.030  220.030
18e..?60  ??S.954  ?tMl.4w4  271S308  22?.187  234.091  285.071  348.216  343.492  493.945
1 1)'..')  u).0i ", It l00.I.Itn 1'..4.6 00 1414.luo 1504.860 1268.500 1052.0110 1513.790 1454.560
14'2. "-.  191t6. 1.1  1942.6YO 1524.940 1//2.700 2265.810 1648.800 1530.050 2071.340 1859.700
u' .250  IW'.250  i331.081)  318.1110  S57.400  28 S.900  34t.790  279.540  340.28iO  175.940
3235.330 3735.560 3984.590 3311.810 3784.990 4093.670 3549.170 3209.900 4268.910 3984.120
EiP P    21.9%.                                     3609.200 3515.530 3764.560 3091.780 356t.960 3873.640 3329.140 2989.870 4048.880 3764.090



INDIA:  National Social forestry Project lCr.1611-IN)
Annex 1:  financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Conpletion Report
Table 6.   Econcic Analysis - Total Project (RS million)                                                  ( * Page 2)
....-   - . . - - .   . . . .   . ... - - - - -   . .. - . . .   .. - . - - . . - . . - - - . . - - - - - -   . -. -   .   - . - - -  - .   - .   .   .. - .  - - . - - -. - - -   . . -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
21       22       23       24        25       26       27        28       29        30       31       32
Costs                                                                                                            a
Himchal Pradesh    15.790   15.790   15.790   15.790   15.790   15.700   15.790   15.790   15.790    15.790   15.790   15.790
Guiarat            116.610  116.610  116.610  116.6%10  116.610  116.610  116.610  116.610  416.610   116.610  116.610  116.610
Uttar Pradesh       57.900   57.900   57.900   57.900   51.900   597.9tH    57.900   51.900    /.900    S7.900  JJ61.900   57.900
Rajahstani          29.730   29.J30   29.130   29.7$0   29.730   29.130   29.130   29.730   29.730    29.730   29.730 .29 140
Total Costs        220.030  220.030  220.030  220.030  220.030  220.030  220.030  220.030  220.030   220.030  220.030  220.030                                                 t.n
Benef its
Nimchal Pradesh   452.884  443.638  417.032  367.776  368.231  428.648  415.054  238.910  205.307   225.347  224.414  238.063
Gujarat           1470.250 1492.260 1091.520  851.233  831.453  672.037 1069.220  822.061  867.898   936.667  772.561  298.166
Uttar Pradesh   1I85.080 1260.900 1092.770 1838.640 1175.830 1152.980 1380.440 1300.970 1421.040   907.594  911.531  954.869
Rajashstan         173.560  167.800  232.680  221.250  318.620  273.210  328.500  255.710  260.090   178.720  209.570  160.280
Total Benefits   3981.780 3364.600 2834.000 3278.900 2694.140 2526.880 3193.220 2617.650 2754.330  2248.320 2118.070 1651.370
Net Benefits      3761.750 3144.570 2613.970 3058.870 2474.110 2306.850 2973.190 2397.620 2534.300  2028.290 1898.040 1431.340
-- - - - - -  - - -   - - - - - - - -  - - - -       - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - ...  ... ...  ....  .  ... ... ...  .... ........  ... . . .
.  ..  .  ...  ...  -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -
33       34       35       36       37        38      39      40
... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....  ..  -- - - - -- - - - -- - - -
15.790   15.790   15.790   15.790   15.790   15.790  15.790
116.610  116.610  116.610  116.610  116.610  116.610 116.610
57.900   57.900   57.900   57.900   57.900   57.900  57.900
29.730   29.730   29.730   29.730   29.730   29.730  29.730
220.030  220.030  220.030  220.030  220.130  220.030 220.030
220.528  276.608  234.575  255.211  250.731  274.813 lh.504
299.025  202.490  360.233  331.?62  326.003  298.143 217.200
702.483  677.424  9J3.242  981.021  937.210  601.319 475.911
18o.110  155.160  209.80  155.110  2?6.330  145.250 103.300
146S.140 1312.380 1707.730 1723.100 1740.270 1319.520 969.915
1248.110 1092.350 1487.690 1503.070 1520.240 1099.490 749.885
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -       . . . . . . .  - - - - - - - - - - -.....- - - - - - - - - - - -...... .. . .. 



INOIA:  National Social forestry Project (Cr.1611-IN)
Annex 1:  linancial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Conpietion Report
Table 7.   Sensitivity Analysis
PRFSFNl VALUES OF NEI SIREAMS Al A OISCOUNI  RAIE Of 12X
aT         uP 10%       UP 20%       uP 5OX    DOWN IOX    DOWN 20X    DOWN 5OX  LAG 1 YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
CTOT               5809.7       6,956.7      8,10317    11.544.8       4,662.7       3,515.7         74.6      4, 580. -'     3,483.5     2,503.8
up IOX             5,243.6       6,3-20.7     7,537?.     10,978.8      4,096.6       2,949.6       -491.6      4,014.7      2,917.4       1,937.7
up 20%             4,677.6       5,824.6      6,971.6    10 412.7       3,530.6       2,383.5    -1,057.6       3,448.6      2,351.4       1.371.6
uP 50%             2,979.4      4'126.4       5'275.4      8,714.5       1'832.4        685.3    -2,755.8       1,750.4        653.2        -326.7
DOON 10%           6,375.8       7,522.8      8,669.8    12,110.9       5,228.7       4,081.7        640.6      5,146.8   * 4,049.5        3,069.8
DOWN 20%           6,941.8       8,088.9      9,235.9    12,677.0       5,794.8       4,647.8      1,206.7      5 712.9      4,615.6       3,635.9
DOWN 50%           8,640.0       9,787.0    10,934.1    14,375.1         7,493.0      6,345.9      2,904.9      7,411.0      6, 313:8\  5,334.0
LAG 1 YEAR                             -            -             -                                             5,187.2      4,090.0      3,110.2
LAG 2 YEARS                                                                    -                          -            -     4,631.5      3,651.8
LAG 3 YEARS                                                -            - *                                                         -     4, 135.2
INIERNAL RATES Of RETURN OF NET STREAMS
SlOT       UP 10%       UP 20%       tiP 5OX    DOWN 10%    DOW\II 20%    DOWN 50%  LAG I YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
C70T                21.843        23.350       24.767       28.588        20.230       18.492       12.164       19.187        17.157       15.546
Up 10%              20.382        21.841       23.21?       26.923        18.8118      17.133       10.984       17.955        16.089       14.600
UP 20X              19.087        20.507       21.843       25.446        17.567       15.928        9.931       16.858        15.133       13.751
UP 50%              15.928        17.249       18.492       21.843        14.511       12.981        7.319       14.156        12.763       11.634
DOWN 10%            23.512        25.071       26.538       3u.488        21.84.3      20.044       13.505       20.586        18.366       16.613
DOWII 20%           25.446        27.066       28.588       32.686        23.712       21.843       15.055       22.197        19.752       17.831
DOUN SO%            33.925        35.799       37.557       42.275        31.915       29.744       21.843       29.156       25.666        22.985
LAG I YEAR                -            -            .             - -          -                                 21.843        19.187       17.157
LAG 2 YEARS               -            -            -             -            -            -             -            -      21.843        19.187
LAG 3 YEARS               -            .                                                                                                   21.843
Internal Rates of Return of Net Streams
NltTOT                     21.85%
SwITCHING VALUES AT 12%
APPRAISAL    SWITCHING    PERCENtAGE
StREA1                    VALUE         VALUE         CIIAIIGE
8S0T                 11,470.20       5,660.59        -50.65%
C1OT                  5,660.59    11,470.20          102.64%
...   .. .... ..... .............................................
Net Present Valuc at OCC 12% = 5,809.7
Internal Rate of Return   21.9%
^r ---r,n F e i. -I - - -  .; I  ,  . *      '"



INDIA: National Social Forestry Project (Cr.1611.IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-Evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table 8.   Per Hectare Yield Estimates of Major Species Planted Under the Project
Rajasthan                        Uttar Pradesh                    Himachal Pradesh                        GuJarat
MAI           Rotation             MAI            Rotation            HAI            Rotation             HAI           Rotation
l______________________         (mt)            (years)            (mt)            (years)             (mt)            (years)            (mt)             (years)
1. Species
Ailanthus sps.                   4.5               15                -                 -
Casuarina sps.                                     -                 -                                  -                 -               5.5              10-15
Conifers:                                          -                 -                 -               1.3             80-120               -                -
P. roxburghii
P. wallichiana
C. deodara
Dalbergia sissoo                2.5                15                5                15               1.9               15               3.2              12-15
Eucalyptus sps.                 4.5              8-10                6                8                3.5               10               6.3                8
Fuelwood and fodder               2             10-15                5              10-12              3.2              10-15             3.5              10-12
Poplar sps.                       -                -                 6                8                3.5               10                 -                -
Teak (Tectona grandis)            -                -                6.6             40-80               -                 -               6.0             40-80
I. Other Products
Bamboo. 2 culms per clump per year from Year 6.
Branchwood - % to 3 kg/tree/yr
(Ber - fruit) - 2 to 6 kg/tree/yr
Fruit (general) - 2 to 5 kg/tree/yr
Grass - 1 to 3 mt/ha/yr
Leaf fodder - 5 to 2 kg/tree/yr
Seed pods - S to 3 kg/tree/yr
I   These include: Acacias. Albizzia. Bauhinia. Melia. Prosopis. etc.
Note:    In general. SAR plantation model felling and harvest schedules have been adhered to.
Pole - 0.044 m3/pole.    1 m3 - 0.63 mt.



