Doument of
The World Bank
FOR OMaAL USE ONLY
C K~ / //- LtA-
Rieport No. P-4094-IN
RE2ORT AND RECOMIDENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 166.1 MILLION
US$165 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
May 22, 1985
This tocnMtma  sde  dsdhom and may be wed by eapkmt' oyin  e peforc or
d&olllUl d11s If  otu ay not adrwke be disdesd witbhS Wodd Bakalhr zaoo,



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        =  Rs 12
Rs 1.00        =  US$0.08
Rs 1 million   =  US$80,000
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as othervise noted, made at the rate of US$1.00 = Rs 12.00.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACF          -     Assistant Conservator of Forests
Addl. CCF    -     Additional Chief Conservator of Forests
Addl. IGF    -     Additional Inspector General of Forests
CCF          -     Chief Conservator of Forests
CF           -     Conservator of Forests
DCF          -     Deputy Conservator of Forests
DFO          -     Divisional Forest Officer
DIGF         -     Deputy Inspector General of Forests
FR           -     Forest Ranger
FRI          -     Forest Research Institute
COG          -     Government of Gujarat
GOHP         -     Government of Himachal Pradesh
GOR          -     Government of Rajasthan
COUP         -     Government of Uttar Pradesh
HP           -     Himachal Pradesh
ICAR         -     Indian Council of Agriculture Research
ICFRE        -     Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education
ICRAF        -     International Center for Research on Agroforestry
IGF          -     Inspector General of Forests
NCA          -     National Commission on Agriculture
NCAER        -     National Council of Applied Economic Research
SAU          -     State Agricultural University
VFW          -     Village Forestry Worker



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     India.
Beneficiaries:                The States of Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh,
Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh and the
Government of India's Ministry of Environment
and Forests.
Amount:                       SDR 166.1 Million (US$165 million equivalent).
Terms:                        Standard.
On-lending Terms:             From GOI to the Governments of Gujarat, Himachal
Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh as part of
Central assistance for State development prbjects
on terms and conditions applicable at the time,
GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:          The project would provide continuing assistance
initiated under earlier credits to two states
(Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat) to expand and
improve their social forestry activities, and
would initiate investment in two other states
(Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan). It would
increase supplies of fuelwood, small timber,
poles, bamboo, fodder and other minor forest
products. It would also strengthen institu-
tional capabilities including the strengthen-
ing of the Central Social Forestry Support
Office for better planning and management of
forestry resources, through provision for
additional staff, training of existing
personnel, research and additional vehicles
and equipment.  Wood balance and other
studies would be carried out, and programs
would be conducted to promote fuel saving
devices. There are no major project risks.
However, shortage of funes could become a
problem if the States over-extend themselves
on forestry programs. To minimize this risk
the States would inform the Association of
any major developments concerning their
social forestry programs to enable the
Association to evaluate the impact, if any,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dute Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



which these developments might have on
project-financed activities. An additional
risk is that farmers may favour planting of
and saturate the market for higher value
products. However, wood balance studies to
be undertaken and continuous monitoring,
including the proposed mid-term review would
effectively minimize this risk.
(US$ Millions)
Estimated Cost 1/                    Local           Foreign          Total
Project Component
Incremental Staff                    35.3               -             35.3
Civil Works                          17.2               0.9            18.1
Vehicles and Equipment                8.1               1.6             9.7
Incremental Operating Costs          21.3               0.7           22.0
Training                              3.8               0.4            4.1
Technical Assistance, Studies
and Research                       0.5               -              0.5
Plantation Activities               162.2               1.6          163.8
Total Baseline Costs                248.3               5.2          253.5
Physical Contingencies               11.2               0.3            11.5
Price Contingencies                  61.8               0.9           62.8
Total Project Costs                 321.3               6.4          327.8
Financing Plan:                                 US$ Millions
Local           Foreign         Total
GOI/GOC/GOUP/GOHP/GOR            82.3             0.5            82.8
USAID                            79.0              1.0           80.0
IDA                             160.0             5.0           165.0
TOTAL                        321.3             6.5           327.8
1/ Including taxes and duties of US$3.93 million equivalent.



-iii-
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Millions)
IDA FY                      FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
Annual                      17.1    25.9    32.4    37.0    36.1       16.5
Cumulative                  17.1    43.0    75.4   112.4   148.5    165.0
Rate of Return:          27%.
Appraisal Report:        No. 559lb-IN, dated May 21, 1985.



INTERNATIOZ.JY. DEVF.LOPKEPfT ASMOCIATION
REPOLRT OF-THE. PLESIDEI1T TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE NlATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
to India for SDR 166.1 million (US$165 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms, to help finance a national social forestry project in order to increase
supplies of fuelwood and other forest products to rural and semi-urban areas in
the States of Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh and to
strengthen the Central government's capability to support social forestry
activities in all States. The proceeds of the credit would be channeled to the
Governments of the participating States in accordance with the Government of
India's standard terms and arrangements for financing State deveLopment
projects. The exchange risk would be borne by the Government of India. The
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) is expected to
support the project wit'h a grant of US$3.million and a loan of US*77 million on
standard USAID terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "India: Structural Change and Development
Perspectives" (5593-IN, dated April 24, 1985), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on Kay 1, 1984. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 750 mil-
lion (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The economy is
dominated by agricuicure wnich empioys more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, rhe land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those who own little or
no land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2Z since 1950/51 -- has
been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.3% per annum). As a
result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at
factor cost) from 52% in 1950/51 to about 33% in 1981/82, while the share of
industry rose from 20% to around 26%. But industrialization has not been rapid
enough to absorb the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a
result economic growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging
about 3.6% per annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress, with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% aer year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
I/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Rihand Power Transmission Project
(No. P-4062-IN), dated May 7, 1985.



-2-
markedly since 1950/51: the gross national savings rate more than doubled from
10.8X of GDP (at factor cost) to 22.7Z in 1983/84, while the gross domestic
investment rate rose from 12.5Z of GDP to 24.8% in 1983184. Foreign savings
(balance of payments deficit on current account) have never financed a major
portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20Z was reached during the
early 1960s. Currently, foreign savings account for about 8% of investment.
External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per'capita
terms, never rising above 3Z of GDP and averaging below 1Z for the past five
years. Net use of foreign savings has never risen above 3Z of GDP, and
presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
'between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during
the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced
various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume
of India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a
whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is
possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle
East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and
more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real CDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
5.3%, 3.3% and 8.1%, respectively, during the 1975/76 to 1978/79 period. In
1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst drought in recent
years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices and domestic supply
shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and
the opening up of a relatively large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pres-
sures also emerged after several years of virtual price stability. These
setbacks coincided with the preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid
down a program of adjustment that aimed at improving the trade deficit, remov-
ing infrastructural bottlenecks and ensuring price stability with an overall
growth of the economy of 5.2Z per annum.
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83,
India's economy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of the
second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to 1982/83),
CDP growth averaged almost 5% per annum, while between the two recovery years
(from 1980/81 to 1983/84), it was 4.5% per annum - substantially higher than
India's long-term growth rate of 3.6Z. Continued rapid economic growth has
resulted from a development strategy which includes higher investment levels
and liberalized policies on imports, industrial licensing, prices, and commer-
cial borrowing. These policies, by easing constraints on the supply of
infrastructure and basic commodities, were a determining factor in the improved
performance of the economy and the industrial sector. This overall improvement
in performance, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy in 1981/82 and
1982183, resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate
of wholesale prices declined from over 18% in 1980181 to only 2.6% in 1982/83,



3-
but rose to over 9% in 1983/84, mainly iluc to the cffect of the 1902/83 drought
on food prices.  Further improvmcmntn in the policy cnvironmcnt will be
required to maintain these. higher level s of econrnimic growth and investmernt
without putting undue pressure on the balance of paym-ants or revivinc infla-
tionary expectations.
8.      Economic growth in the early 1980s has not bccn steady, mainly because
of the effect of uneven rainEall on agricultural production during the period.
In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered from the 1979
drought, with real GDP growing by 7.6% and 5.3%, respectively. While
industrial output expanded by 41 in 1980/81 and 8.62 in 1981/82, recovery was
particularly robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise
by more than 15% and 5.5%, respectively. The- supply of power, coal, and rail
transport, already improved in 1980/81, was further expanded in 1981/82,
recording growth rates of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.5%, respectively. This over-
all improvement in the Indian economy was halted in 1982/83 by a severe drought
in mid-1982 which reduced agricultural production by 4%, brought down the GDP
growth rate to 1.81, and put further srrains on the already difficuLt balance
of payments and domestic resource situation. The timely implementation of
various economic policies relating to foodgrain imports, procurement and
distribution, and the allocation of power to irrigation pumps mitigated the
otherwise very distressing effects of the poor monsoon. The economy recovered
in 1983184, led by a robust agricultural sector - GDP grew by about 6.5% to 7%
with agricultural production growth in the 91-10Z range and industrial growth
of 4.5%. The major factors contributing to the good economic performance
during 1983/84 were the excellent monsoon, combined with adequate agricultural
policies and programs, and satisfactory performance of the coal and transport
sectors. The power sector, however, emerged again as a constraint on higher
growth, especially in industry.
9.      Agricultural production 7ebawKded strongly in 1983/84 in response to
the monsoon, improved use of inputs and continued expansion of irrigatioa.
Overall foodgrain production rose by 10Z-121 over the previous year, reaching
a new record of 142-144 million tons, a substantial increase over the previous
peak of 133 million tons in 1981/82. Corrected for weather variations,
foodgrain production continues to grow at a trend of 2.6% per annum-sufficient
to maintain a broad balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic
demand. Nonetheless, the balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain
imports to maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise
from time to time. Thus, adequate management of foodgrain stocks and programs
to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of
other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services had a mixed performance in 1983/84,
partially because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half of
the year but also due to a failure to maintain the productivity gains of
1980-82.  Electricity generation grew only by about 3.7% due to low reservoir
water levels during the first half of the year, delays in the commissioning
of new capacity, and a deteriorati_n of capacity utilization in thermal plants.
As a result, power generation was about 11.5X below requirements and con-
stituted a major bottleneck in the economy. Key industries which were adver-
sely affected by power constraints included steel, fertilizers, cement, and
coal. To improve performance in the power sector, the Government recently
increased incentives for higher labor and management productivity in thermal
plants. Railway freight traffic, measured in ton-kms, grew by only 0.5% in



-4-
19R3/84, reflecting sluggish demand.  Coal production increased by about 6.5%
in 1983/84 reaching 139 million tons. When combined with stocks already avail-
able this level of production was sufficient to meet the relatively slow demand
growth. Infrastructural constraints would have emerged much more sharply had
the pace of industrial growth and demand been more rapid. It is therefore
critically important that India maintain the pace of investmen- in these key
sectors, mobilize sufficient resources to do so, and implement programs to
*         enhance productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus in
the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit. The gap between gross invest-
ment and national savings increased from negligible levels during the late
1970s to an average eoqlivalent to 2.1X of GDP in 1980-84. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.6% of GDP in the last four years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population below the poverty line. The scope for a substan-
tial increase in the savings rate is therefore quite limited. If India is to
maintain investment at about 25% of CDP, a major effort will be required to
raise additional domestic resources particularly in the public sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity,
more efficient operations and adequate pricing policies. This would also allow
a marginal decline in the use of foreign savings from the recent 2.1Z-2.3Z of
GDP to 1.5%-1.8Z, to ensure a sustainable external debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the late
1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from 1976/77 to
1978179, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.1% of GDP during
1980/81 to 1983/84. Several developments contributed to these relatively
larger current account deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated
sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and continued
to move against India during the first three years of the 1980s. Second, a
more liberal import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued. Third, net
invisibles declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittances stagnated
(reflecting slower development activity in the Middle East), and payment of
interest on higher levels of forei5n debt increased. Faced with severe
infrastructural constraints and s deterioration in its balance of payments,
India initiated an adjustment program in 1980/81 designed to raise the growth
rate from its historical level of 3.6% to 5.2% while adjusting the country's
external balance to the adverse price deveiopments in the world markets.  The
main elements of this strategy, which is being successfully implemented, are
export promotion, import substitution where economically justifiable, implemen-
tation of a coherent energy policy designed to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and continued movement toward
a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to inputs
for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology and
capacity expansion.
13.     A positive development in India's balance of payments is the reduction
in the trade deficit from US$7.; billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9 billion in
1983084 despite unfavorable world market conditions and import liberalization.
Export volume growth and import substitution of oil and petroleum products,
metals and fertilizers more than offset the substantial increase in "other"
_.0 O-t. These "other" imports consist mainly of industrial imports and capi-
taL gok;Is which historically have been in chronic short supply and which are of



-5-
critical importance to capacity utilization, product quality, and plant modern-
ization and expansion. A major factor in the decline of the trade deficit was
the lower net import bill for petroleum, which dropped from US$6.7 billion in
1980/81 to US$3.4 billion in 1983/84 in response to a ouccessful oil develop-
ment program that reduced import needs and allowed crude oil exports, which
totalled about US$1.5 billion in 1983/84. These structural changeB in the
balance of payments are to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years.  It is expected that the
balance of payments will continue to be under strain for the next several
years, since the adjustment strategy will continue to require high levels of
imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorable export performance, India will need external
capital flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable future, given
the low per capita income level in the country, the already high savings rate,
and the structural adjustment process. Faced with a growing need for external
capital inflows and stagnation in the availability of concessional assistance,
India decided at the start of the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and commercial banks to substantial levels.
In the period covering the fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983/84, India drew SDR 3.9
billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the IMF. In addition, India bor-
rowed significant amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and
increased the use of suppliers' and export credits. In the period 1980-84,
India contracted commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and
suppliers' credits of over US$1,000 million. The bulk of this borrowing has
been used for specific development projects in the public and private sector
(mostly for petroleum exploration and development, steel, power, aluminum and
shipping). India's favorable debt service position and the nature of its
borrowings, for project-related purposes instead of direct balance of payments
support, enabled it to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads.
This larger commercial borrowing and transfer of funds under the arrangement
with the IMF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen
to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
Development Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has thl capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. -Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India also has
a wide range of institutions capable of fostering development and is well-
endowed with human resources. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource
base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores,
but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to
foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will lay
down the development strategy for 1985186-1989/90. This strategy is expected
to continue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy development,
export promotion, domestic import substitution where economically justifiable



-6-
and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall Sixth Plan performance
has been encouraging, with aggregate real investment projected to be about 30%
higher than in the period 1975-80--a creditable performance indeed. The Sixth
Plan expenditure targets, however, will not be fulfilled as resource mobi-
lization by the pubLic sector will fall short of the financing requirements of
planned publir investment. Actual aggregate real investment is projected to be
about 7% below the original target for the period 1980-85, private investment
being 5% to 10% higher and public investment about 20% lower in real terms than
actually projected. In terms of meeting Plan expenditure targets, the perfor-
mance of the Central Government is considerably better than that of the State
Governments.  The Central Government's Plan outlavs are likely to reach about
80% to 90% of the original Plan allocation in reai terms, while the States'
will probably achieve only about 50% of their targets, due principally to
shortfalls in resource generation. Bottlenecks in key sectors such as power,
transport and irrigation are likely to persist as a consequence of real invest-
ment shortfalls relative to original Plan allocations.
17.     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, India's capi-
tal formation rates have increased from 22.6% in 1975-80 to 24.7% of GDP in
i980-84. Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for future
income growth, but returns to investment have so far been relatively low. Much
of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of development, in which a large
and growing proportion of investment has been needed to build up basic
infrastructure services which have inherently high capital-output ratios.
However. there is scope to reduce capital-output ratios through improvements
in efficiency. As discussed in greater detail in our recent economic reports,
performance in the basic service sectors can be improved through better plan-
ning and management, thus leading to higher productivity and capacity utiliza-
tion throughout the economy. At the same time, programs to expand domestic
capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and
cement, this is justified on the grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors
such as irrigation, power and transportation, expansion of planned capacity in
accordance with the requirements of the rest of the economy will be vital for
sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil development program
backed by substantial financial commitment. Performance under the program has
been excellent with real investment and oil production levels running well
ahead of Plan Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for
exploration and development were raised by successive price increases for
domestic crude and products. Wlhile the gap between domestic consumption of
petroleum and production remains large, India's dependence on oil imports
dropped from 63% of consumption in 1979/80 to about 41% in 1983/84 and is
expected to decrease to about 33Z of consumption by 1984(85.  The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects. At the same time, the increases in domestic
petroleum prices have helped encourage conservation and slow demand growth.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
This will require the continuation of the current development strategy which
assigns high priority to export promotion, public finance discipline, improve-
ment of economic etficiency, and investment in infrastructure, supported by



-7-
adequate flows of external borrowing and aid. In the short term, a relatively
large level of external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commer-
cial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments conse-
quences of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing
India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of conces-
sional assistance since India is still a very poor country with a large rural
sector and enormous investment requirements for human development and basic
infrastructure. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrow-
ing on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of
course, limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives
rather than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. Nevertheless,
with a more open trade policy and expanded efforts to remove constraints on the
growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization of both
foreign and domestic savings, India is demonstrating that it can sustain a rate
of growth closer to 5.01 per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6X per
annum. If the rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0Z per
annum, a 5.0X growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of
per capita income of 1.4% per annum. Success in these efforts would make a
significant difference to the prospects of easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
to accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated there
was no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained about 2.2% per
annum in the 1970s despite a measurable decline in fertility rates. The
population growth rate failed to decline in the past decade due to a reduction
in the infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy, reflecting
larger availability of food and health services. While this is a welcome
development, it implies a greater strain on the economy and re-emphasizes the
need for continuing efforts to strengthen the healh and family planning
programs in a broad range of activities and services. These efforts are given
high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the proportion of
protected couples in the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80
level of about 23% to over 35Z by 1984185. The Government is reviewing its
population policy for the Seventh Plan, with indications of a determination to
retain the emphasis on the implementation of family planning, health, education
and literacy programs aimed at reducing fertility rates.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic and
social policy. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51Z of the rural population and 40% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Significant reductions in poverty
will depend primarily on an acceleration of economic growth, particularly in
agriculture, combined with effective implementation of poverty alleviation
programs. India's poverty alleviation strategy appropriately recognizes that
production-oriented programs, which aim at accelerating the overall pace of
economic growth, and poverty alleviation programs, targetted at those least
able to participate in the general growth of the economy, can be mutually
reinforcing rather than substituting for each other. Major poverty programs
operating on a nationwide basis at present include: the Minimum Needs Program
(MNP), the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), and the National Rural
Employment Program (NREP). The IRDP and NREP are targeted programs aimed at
increasing the incomes of the poor rapidly, either througb the transfer of
productive assets or direct employment. The INP, aims at broadening the provi-
sion of social infrastructure and basic services which enhance the human capi-



-8-
tal of the poor and improve living standards. These programs represent a
vitally important commitment of the Government to address the needs of the
poorest. The scale of the poverty problem in India, combined with the inherent
difficulties in implementing poverty programs in any country, imply the need
for continued efforts to enhance the effectiveness of these programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 84 loans and 174 development
credits to India totalling US$6,818 million and US$12,934 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively.  Of these amounts, US$1,465 million has been
repaid, and US$5,909 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1985. Bank
Qroup disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31, 1985
totalled US$787 million, representing a decrease of about 27 percent over the
same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements
as of March 31, 1985.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 32 commitments in India totalling US$265
million, of which a total of US$145 million has been repaid, sold, terminated
or cancelled. Of the balance of US120 million, US$113 million represents loans
and US$7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of
March 31, 1985, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant with
Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan and in the approach being
taken by GOI in the preparation of the Seventh Plan.  First, high priority will
continue to be given to COI's agricultural program. While India has made
significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have to be sus-
tained to improve the balance between food demand and supply and to contribute
to poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, the Bank Group will continue to
support irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and agricultural
extension and credit. Second, alongside GOI's efforts in promoting greater
efficiency and faster development of the industrial sector, increased assis-
tance will be provided for industrial development. Third, the review of per-
formance under the Sixth Plan confirms the high priority that should continue
;- be given to the expansion and more efficient use of basic infrastructure
cak-city and to the development of India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources.



-9-
Accordingly the Bank Group will. continue to support the development of the
energy, transport and telecommunications sectors to alleviate critical
shortages which constrain output in both agricultural and industrial sectors.
Fourth, support of urban develo;_nt and other GOI basic social services
programs for the poor will also continue in light of the growth in population
which, despite successes in lowering birth and death rates, still increases by
about 16 million each year.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank'economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India
continues to require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to offset
the overall deterioration in the world trade environment, and to sustain the
relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the first four
years of the Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in
India should aim to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports
relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the
domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component
tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such
high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.6 billion
in FY82, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA.  The amount of IDA
funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have &. bc met, in part, through larger Bank lending.  Given its development
prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to sup-
plement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve
growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings,
foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth
should result in continued economic growth and improvement in the balance of
payments. India's debt service ratio is estimated at about 15.2Z in 1984185.
This ratio is projected to rise to around 20Z by 1989/90, mainly due to the
hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over this level
through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt service ratios are con-
siderably above historical levels, they are still manageable and will not
adversely affect India's creditworthiness.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 62Z, 33% and 37Z, respectively, in 1983/84.
In 1983/84, about 19.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group. On March 31, 1984, India's outstanding and disbursed external public'
debt was estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was US$9.6 billion or 36% (IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion). As
of March 31, 1985 outstanding loans and credits to India held by the Bank
totalled US$18,288 million, of which US$5,909 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$12,379 million.



-10-
PART III - FORESTRY IN INDIA
29.     India's forest land--about 75 million hectares--covers 23Z of the
total land area. Excessive pressure of human and cattle populations on
forest lands nas resulted in rapid depletion and degradation of much of
the natural forests.  Consequently, only about 40Z of the forest lands is
actually tree covered. Deforestation has occurred mostly because of the
continuous decimation of trees to meet fuel and timber needs of the com-
munity and industry. Demand for fuelwood, wood for industrial use, fodder
and manure is expected to increase with increase in population. Shortage
of fuelwood and other forestry products will become more critical unless
the decline in forest resources is arrested and measures are taken to
expand the forest resource base in the country.
30.     Non-commercial energy sources, including fuelwood, agricultural
wastes and animal dung, account for about 80% of rural and 50% of urban
household energy consumption. Almost 55% of. non-commercial energy is
obtained from fuelwood. About 20% of available labor in farm families is
spent in fuelwood collection. Existing planting programs are inadequate
for meeting demand for fuelwood. It is estimated that in the year 2000,
annual demand for fuelwood and industrial wood, will be about
200 million m3 and 65 million m3 respectively; equivalent to about 20 to
30 million ha of mature plantation.
GUI Policies and Social Forestry Program
31.    The Government is focusing increasing attention on the development
of fuelwood resources. It has concluded that firstly, the traditional
management of forest development and resources is inadequate to meet the
country's basic needs for forestry products; and secondly, that develop-
ment of forest resources outside the traditional reserve forests, through
active participation of local communities is required in order to overcome
the shortage of fuelwood, small timber and fodder. From the First through
the Fourth Five Year Plans, India allocated to social forestry only 9.1%
of the total forest development investment. However, in the Fifth
(1974-79) and Sixth (1980-85) Five Year Plans, social forestry was allo-
cated 49% and 78%, respectively, of the total forestry planting targets.
32.     Since early 1970s GOI has mobilized increasing domestic and exter-
nal resources for implementing a national rural-afforestation program, and
through a number of centrally sponsored schemes, State goverments are
being assisted to implement their programs. In the Sixth Plan, these
schemes covered 1.9 million ha out of the total of 4 million ha put under
social forestry, accounting for expenditures of over Rs 2,164 million. In
addition, state-wide projects are being implemented with external assis-
tance in a number of States. These accounted for 0.68 million ha planted,
and over Rs 2,500 million in expenditure during the Sixth Plan period.
Finally, the States operate their own social forestry programs which
accounted for 1.3 million ha planted, and over Rs 3,000 million in expen-
diture during the Sixth Plan period. Of the present total India-wide tree



-ll-
planting of about one billion seedlings annually (about 0.67 ha million),
nearly 50X is planted by farmers on their own land (farm forestry), and
the rest by State forest departments in comuercial plantations (302) and
social forestry plantations (20x). Under the Seventh Plan now being
formulated, resource allocations for 3ocial forestry are expected to be
substantially increased. The importance of forestry has recently been
reemphasized by making it a separate portfolio directly under the Prime
Minister, who has called for a substantial increase in social forestry
activities over current levels, during the Seventh Plan period.
The Bank Group Role in India's Social Forestry
33.     The Bank Group's first forestry project in India, the Madhya
Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 609-IN, December 1975),
assisted with the development of plantations for the pulp and paper
industry. Subsequently, the Bank Group's assistance to forestry, through
six projects covering seven States, has focussed on social forestry, with
the objective of increasing the supply of fuelwood, poles, small timber,
fodder and other minor forest products. Of these projects, one has been
completed and two are about to be completed. In addition to the six
projects, the Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project (Cr. 1897-IN)
and the Himalayan Watershed Mhanagement Project (Lu. 2295-IN) also included
large components for reforestation and pasture development.
34.     Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project (Cr. 925-IN).  The Uttar
Pradesh Social Forestry Project was the Bank's first social forestry
project in India. The project was completed as scheduled and the credit
was closed December 31, 1984. A Project Completion Report is being
prepared and will be issued later in 1985. It included the establishment
of 8,000 ha of village woodlots, 22,000 ha of strip p'antations, thp
rehabilitation of 13,600 ha of degraded forests and the provision of
seedlings for 4,000 ha of farm forestry. The project was completed on
schedule, and, overall, exceeded its physical appraisal targets. However,
execution of the civil works program designed to support field activities
was not satisfactory, procurement of vehicles for improving staff mobility
fell short of the target and the village woodlots component lagged. The
project did not effectively cover the eastern part of the State where
small and marginal farmers and landless poor are concentrated. Other
deficiencies related to management, extension, monitoring and evaluation
and research all of which need strengthening.
35.     Gujarat Community Forestry Project (Cr. 961-IN).  The project
provided for the establishment of 37,440 ha of village woodlots, 30,000 ha
of reafforestation, afforestation of 1,000 ha of privately owned land,
establishment of 37,000 ha of strip plantations, and provision of 30 mil-
lion seedlings to farmers to plant on 20,000 ha of privately owned land.
With the exception of the self-help village woodlot component, overall,
the planting targets have been achieved and the credit is expected to be
fully disbursed six months before the closing date. Although most of the
wood produced is expected to be used for commercial and non-fuel purposes,
the project will, nevertheless, relieve the pressure on existing forests



-12-
and increased fuelwood supply for the rural poor. The State has developed
a network of decentralized nurseries, introduced low-cost methods for
production of seedlings, and successfully promoted fuel-saving stoves and
crematoria.
36.     West Bengal Social Forestry Project (Cr. 1178-IN).  The project is
expected to finance establishment of 6,000 ha of village woodlots, plant-
ing of 20,000 ha along roads, railways, and water courses, 52,000 ha of
forests on private land, rehabilitation of 15,000 ha of degraded forests,
construction of a forest training center and expansion of the West Bengal
Forest School.  Planting is already about 45Z above the appraisal
estimates; however, for budgetary considerations, most of the planting has
been carried out by the existing Forest Department Divisions rather than
by expanding the Social Forestry Wing as had been envisaged at appraisal.
Since the existing Divisions have their own housing, offices, facilities
and equipment, disbursement for civil works and equipment as well as
incremental staff is lagging.  West Bengal has been innovative in promot-
ing group farm forestry, where landless poor farmers can take up to one
hectare of government wasteland for afforestation and are given rights to
the product. It has also completed a wood balance study. Following a
recent mid-term review a number of technical and institutional measures
have been proposed for improving project implementation.
37.     Jamuu and Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry Project (Cr. 1286-IN).
The project would establish 17,000 ha of village woodlots, 19,500 ha of
plantations along roads, railways and watercourses, 49,000 ha of planting
oan private land, 15 ha of plantations on sand dunes, 2,000 ha of planta-
tions on wet lands, and 500 ha of plantations on alkali lands and to
rehabilitate 17,000 ha of degraded forests. Both States have achieved
their planting targets thus far; however, staff recruitment and provision
of support services are lagging. The planting targets and staffing plans
are currently being reassessed in a mid-term project review which may
suggest that certain adjustments be made in the program.
38.     Karnataka Social Forestry Project (Cr. 1432-IN).  The project
provides for the distribution of about 600 million seedlings for develop-
ment of farm forestry (equivalent to 120,000 ha); and the establishment of
departmental plantations comprising 20,000 ha on cultivable wasteland used
as common grazing grounds and also on agriculturally unproductive govern-
ment vastelands, 3,000 ha on foreshores of irrigation tanks; 4,000 ha of
strip plantations along roads and canals, and 2,000 ha of bamboo
plantations. During the first year, plantation programs exceeded
appraisal estimates. The State has also made a good start in decentraliz-
ing seedling production and distribution.
39.     Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr. 1514-IN).  The project is
expected to establish plantations on about 69,000 ha on private land,
12,000 ha on government land, 2,000 ha on strip areas and 2,100 ha for
special tribal schemes. Progress has been good during the initial year of
project implemntation.



-13-
40.     Lessons Learned.  Although the Bank's experience with social
forestry in India is relatively brief, a number of lessons have been
learned for improving future social forestry programs. Organizational
structures and staffing plans are being modified in light of this
experience. To the extent possible, existing departments aze being used
instead of establishing separate social forestry institutions. Instead of
establishing a completely separate forestry extension cadre, forestry
staff would be trained as StlS to work with the existing agricultural
extension services. Under the proposed project, the States would review
further institutional improvements that may be required. Non-government
organizations and other voluntary groups are proving useful in promoting
social forestry development. Lessons have also been learned with regarl
to design of plantation models and focus of afforestation programs in
order to enhance the achievement of the primary social objectives of
social forestry-to increase supplies of fuelwood for the poor as well as
to facilitate their participation in'social forestry activities. In this
regard, there is need to improve distribution methods so that more of the
benefits would effectively reach target groups. Generally, farmers are
participating at a faster rate than originally had been anticipated.
However to ensure maximum participation by small farmers and reduce costs,
nurseries should be more widely dispersed. It is also necessary to review
free seedling distribution policies, and to remove or reduce subsidies
where these are no longer appropriate. Effective monitoring and evalua-
tion has proved difficult to establish but is crucial for proper manage-
ment in projects as innovative and large scale as social forestry and
calls for constant reinforcement and support. Finally, there is need for
a central organization to provide a more effective social forestry support
and increase exchange of experience among States. Most of these matters
are being addressed in this project (Paragraph 42).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
41.     The project was appraised in October/November 1984. Negotiations
were held in Washington in May 1985 with the Indian delegation coordinated
by Mr. P. Singh, Director of the Government of India's Department of
Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 5591b-IN) dated Hay 21, 1985 is being circulated separately. A
supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Rationale
42.     The project's primary objectives are to (i) increase production
of fuelwood, small timber, poles and fodder; (ii) increase rural
employment, farmers' incomes and opportunities for participation of land-
less persons; (iii) afforest degraded areas and wasteland, and reduce soil
erosion; and (iv) strengthen forestry institutions. The first phase
social forestry projects have substantially contributed towards meeting
commercial demand for poles and small timber, and raising incomes of land
owners, but have fallen short of ensuring that the weaker sections of the



-14-
population benefit in terms of access-to wood products and increased
community participation in social forestry development activities. The
proposed project will help achieve these goals through: (i) refocusing
operations (plantation types, choice of.species, dispersion of nurseries
and seedling distribution policies) to increase the share of the benefits
which would reach small and marginal farmers and the landless; and
(ii) improving.operating efficiency, reducing costs and helping to ration-
alize the organization of the forestry departments including the Central
Organization, and strengthening support activities including research,
training, and monitoring and evaluation; and (iii) reducing subsidies
state-wide.
Project Description
43.     The project would comprise four State subprojects and a sub-
projects for strengthening the central Social Forestry Support Office in
the Ministry of Environment and Forests: Specifically, the project would
consist of:  (i) a plantation program in the four participating States
including farm forestry, tree tenure schemes for landless persons and
marginal farmers on government wastelands, community woodlots and depart-
mental plantations on government wasteland; (ii) training; (iii) research
and studies; (iv) institutional support; and (v) fuel saving devices.
DETAILED FEATURES
Plantation Program
44.     Agroforestry (514,500 ha -  77Z of total planting program under
the project). The project would provide funds for establishing 467,000 ha
equivalent (UP-134,000 ha, Rajasthan-80,O00 ha, Gujarat-200,000 ha and
HP-53,000 ha) of forestry on private marginal and submarginal land (farm
forestry) and 43,500 ha (Cujarat-30,500 and EP--13,000 ha) on private
wasteland, through development of additional nurseries, distribution of
planting materials and provision of advisory services. Farm forestry
provides substantial benefits to farmers and is of least direct cost to
Forest Departmn4ts. The departments would assist with the establishment
of plantations on seriously eroded private land and the implementation of
a 4,000 ha pilot program for grafting of fruit bearing bushes in
Rajasthan.
45.     Plantations on Community Wastelands (95,000 ha-1l.OZ of the total
planting under the project).  The project would provide funds for estab-
lishing rainfed woodlots on community-owned wastelands (UP-14,000 ha,
Rajasthan-5,000 ha, Gujarat-20,000 ha and HP-41,000 ha) and about 5000
of irrigated woodlots and 10,000 ha of tree fodder plantations in Cujarat.
Prior to planting, the communities and forest department would agree on
plantation design, respective responsibilities and also disposal of
products. Commumities would assume responsibility for protection and
maintenance. The forest department would recover its direct costs by
selling part of the product at harvest, and the balance of the product
would go to the communities.



-15-
46.     Departmental Plantations on Government Wasteland (77,940 ha--9%
of the total planting under the project). The project would provide for
rehabilitation of degraded forests (Rajasthan--20,000 ha,
Gujarat--32,900 ha and HP--5,000 ha). The Forest Departments would super-
vise planting, maintenance, protection, harvesting and distribution of
benefits. In addition, strip plantations (UP--740 ha, Rajasthan--4,300 ha
and Gujarat 15,000 ha) would be established on government land along
roads, railways, canals and embankments. Ditching, earth mounds, brush or
wire, as appropriate, would be provided for protection in areas with heavy
cattle presence, using the most cost effective alternative.
47.     Tree Tenure Plantations (21,543 ha -- 3X of the total planting
under the project). The project would support establishment of 19,333 ha
of group farm plantations (UP--13,210 ha, Rajasthan--7,500 ha and HP--833
ha) by landless persons and marginal.farmers, on government wastelands
unsuited to agricultural cultivation. The farmers would own the trees and
have usufructuary rights to the land.
48.     Nurseries.  Over the five years of project implementation, the
project would develop small and dispersed nurseries to produce some 700 mil-
lion seedlings, mainly for farm forestry. The nurseries would be
developed by individual families and institutions such as schools. Being
near to the farmers, the nurseries would reduce the costs of seedling
distribution and serve as focal points for extension advice. In order to
ensure seedling quality, the nurseries would be supervised by the forest
departments. Each of the participating States has its own policy with
regard to seedling distribution. Under the project, each State would
reduce free distribution of project seedlings in accordance with a phased
schedule agreed with IDA. Seedlings above the free limit would be charged
at rates also agreed with IDA, which would progressively cover the direct
costs of production. The States have accepted the principle of full cost
recovery for all seedlings distributed under all schemes state-wide. For
that purpose, the States would, by March 31, 1988, undertake socio-
economic studies to ascertain farmer response to different pricing
strategies, as a basis for determining a program of action for implement-
ing the principle of full cost recover- for seedlings under all soci;.l
forestry schemes within the States. The States would consult the
Association on the results of the study, and taking into account the
Association's comments, they would implement programs state-wide for full
cost recovery (Paragraph 11 of Schedule 2 to the draft Project Agreement).
49.     Training.  Under the project, funds would be provided for training
to enhance the skills of social forestry staff through lectures,
workshops, study tours or fellowships in India and abroad. In addition,
modifications to training curricula would facilitate the acquisition of
practical skills concerning social forestry.
50.     Research and Studies.  Silvicultural research would be
strengthened through provision of funds for additional staff and technical
assistance, and would focus on seed improvement, collection and handling,



-16-
nursery practices and increased productivity. The States would conduct
wood balance studies which would help to determine approprtate planting
programs, including species selection. Each State would revise and update
its wood balance study every two years.. (Paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the
draft Project Agreement).
51.     Wood Saving Devices. The project would include programs for
promoting efficient wood burning stoves and crematoria for which evalua-
tion studies would be conducted under field conditions.
Organization and Institutional Support
.52.     At the central level, the Department of Forests and Wildlife in
the newly established Kinistry of Environment-and Forests is responsible
for forestry activities in India. The Department is headed by the Special
Secretary, assisted by Joint Secretary for general administration, an
Additional Inspector General of Forest (}GF), six Deputy IGFs, and a Chief
Project Economist. The staff oversees different activities including
conservation, workplans for forestry development, project formulation,
monitoring and evaluation, extension and training. However, since the
Ministry has only recently been established, its internal organization is
still incomplete. Accordingly, GOI would furnish to the Association the
finalized organizational structure and staffing by April 30, 1986 (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04(a)).
53.     At the State level, forest departments are responsible for
forestry development and administration. Each department is headed by a
Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF) or Principal Chief Conservator cf
Forests (PCCF). Administratively, States are divided into circles or
"regions" which are further subdivided into Divisions (5 or 6) under a
Divisional Forest Officer, assisted by Assistant Conservators of Forests.
The Divisions usually consist of four to six Ranges, each under a Range
Forest Officer. The Range is further subdivided into four to siz Rounds,
each under a Forester assisted by several Forest Guards.
54.     Although forestry development is a State subject, there is need
for an effective and strong central organization to oversee social
forestry development in the country. It would provide leadership in
formulating national social forestry policies and development strateay,
assist States in project preparation, monitor progress, provide training
and technical assistance to States, and promote cooperation and exchange
of views among States. The project wocld provide funds for the estab-
lishment of a Social Forestry Support Cffice, within the Office of the
Special Secretary, to perform the above functions. For this purpose, 36
positions of key incremental staff would be created. GOI would sanction
the new position of the head of the Central Social Forestry Support Office
by April 30, 1986 and would fill it by October 31, 1986 (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.04(b)). The Support Office would consist of
cells for a project formulation, and monitoring and five regional support
centers.



-17-
55.     The project would provide for incremental staff in the participat-
ing states including Additional Chief Conservators, Conservators, Ranger
Forest Officers, Deputy Rangers, Foresters and Social Forestry Workers.
Support would also include rented office space, office furniture and
equipment, vehicles, technical assistance, special studies and-preparation
of future subprojects, and project completion reports.
56.     At the State level, the forest department would have overall
responsibility for implementation of the State subproject. It would enter
into an agreement with the agricultural extension service to provide for
effective forestry extension service (Paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to the
draft Project Agreement). To ensure field staff mobility, the States
would provide adequate vehicles and travel allowances.
Project Review
57.     Since it is not possible to predict with certainty the response of
farmers and panchayats to the proposed planting program, adequate
flexibility would be maintained during project implementation, to allow
shifting from one category of pLanting to another, taking into account
reports of the Monitoring and Evaluation Cell of each State Forestry
Department and the results of a mid-term review to be undertaken after the
third years' planting. Each participating State would undertake this
joint review involving COI, IDA and USAID by March 31, 1988 (Paragraph 2
of Schedule 2 to the draft Project Agreement).
Cost Recovery
58.     The primary objective of the proposed project is to meet the basic
needs of rural and semi-urban people for fuelwood and other forestry
products. Hitherto, the State Governments have viewed the associated
investment as part of their normal program for the socio-economic uplift
and welfare of the rural population, some costs of which traditionally are
not recovered from beneficiaries. However, under the project, the States
have accepted the principle of full cost recovery state-wide. Costs would
be recovered for plantations on public lands by selling fuelwood and poles
produced. in addition, as explained in paragraph 48, for seedlings to be
produced under the project, free distribution of seedlings would be phased
out, and costs of seedlings in excess of the agreed free limits would be
progressively recovered. Following the proposed socio-economic studies,
each State would implement a program for full cost recovery state-wide,
for all the seedlings to be distributed within a State. Moreover, the
project would aim to reduce the States' involvement in small nursery
operations and thereby divesting themselves of the fiscal burden
associated with seedling production.
Project Costs and Financing
59.     Total project cost is estimated at US$327.8 million, including
taxes and duties estimated at US$3.9 million. The foreign expenditure
component is estimated at US$6.4 million or 2Z of total project cost.



-18-
Physical contingencies at about US$J1.5 million were estimated at 10% of
civil works, and 5Z of other costs (except salaries). Price contingencies
at about US$62.8 million, were derived from projected local inflation
rates of 8.5X during 1985-90, and foreign inflation rates of 5X in 1985,
7.5Z in 1986. and 8X in 1987-1990.
60.     The credit of US$165 million would cover about 50% of total
project cost net of taxes and duties. USAID is expected to contribute
US$80 million or 24% of total project costs. GOI and the participating
States would contribute the balance of project financing. The proposed
IDA credit would be made to GOI on standard IDA terms.  GOI would channel
the proceeds to the Ministry of Environment and Forests and the par-
ticipating States in accordance with GOI's terms and conditions for
development assistance to constituent States. Of the USAID funds,
US$3 million would be a grant and US$77 million would be a loan on USAID
standard terms, and would similarly be channeled to the Ministry of
Environment and Forests and the participating States.
Procurement and Disbursement
61.     Annex IV, attached, details the manner in which items will be
procured under the project. Most civil works (US$24.5 million) would be
for housing of standardized design, office and training facilities and
small inspection huts which would be widely scattered geographically and
constructed over time, for which international competitive bidding (ICB)
would not be suitable. Contracts over US$100,000 would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding following local advertisement, and in accord-
ance with established State procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. The
local contracting industry is sufficiently well developed to permit ade-
quate competition. Small civil works in remote areas would be carried out
departmentally by force account. Vehicles, equipment and furniture
(US$11.7 million) are needed in small quantities and are available
locally. As adequate maintenance facilities and availability of spare
parts would be important, locally made vehicles of types already used by
government departments would be procured by LCB following Government
procedures which are cceptable to IDA. Usually items such as cars,
motorcycles, bicycles, barbed wire and office furniture ard equipment
would be purchased on rate contract approved by the Director General of
Supplies and Disposals (DGSD), GOI, or otherwise sanctioned by the state
government. Such purchases are made from firms with whom the state
government's central ,urchasing organization, the Stores Purchase
Department, has entered into a rate contract valid for a particular
period, generally one year. The Stores Purchase Department calls for
tenders, evaluates and enters into rate contract with the lowest evaluated
bidder, following procedures adopted by DGSD. Other items
(e.g., polythene bags) would be procured by field officers through local
competitive bidding.
62.     For all contracts for civil works, vehicles, equipment and furni-
ture estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, before bids are invited, IDA
would be furnished for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid



-19-
and the specification and other bidding and draft contract documents
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding. Orders for purchase of minor equipment, furniture and
supplies would be bulked wherever possible and purchased according to
established lacal bidding procedures, ezcept where valued at less than
US$50,000 and not in the rate ontract list, when they would be purchased
by prudent shopping through normal trade channels. The balance of project
costs (US$291.6 million) would consist of plantation activities and fuel-
saving devices, adaptive research, support to state agricultural univer-
siti4s and special studies and evaluation, training, technical assistance,
inzremental salaries and travel allowances, and incremental office and
vehicles operating expenditure which would not involve procurement.  All
of the above figures include contingencies, which amount to
US$62.8 million. Retroactive financing (US$14.5 million) of the proposed
credit would be provided to enable the States to prepare for the initial
year planting season, and would cover expenditures incurred after
October 1, 198&, including nursery development, advance soil works, essen-
tial vehicles and equipment and incremental staff associated with the 1985
planting season activities (para. 3 of Schedule 1 to the draft Credit
Agreement).
63.     The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed as follows:  (a) 60X
of total costs of field activities and promotion of fuel saving devices;
(b) 30% of total costs of incremental staff salaries; (c) 62% of total
costs of travel allowances; (d) 100% of ex-factory price of vehicles or
75Z of purchase price if procured locally; (e) 50% of total costs of civil
works; (f) 5GZ of total costs of vehicle operating costs; (g) for furni-
ture and equipment, 100Z of c.i.f. costs if imported and 100% of ex-
factory price if locally manufactured or 75% of purchase price of locally
procured items; and (h) 50% of total costs for staff training, farmer
training, central workshops, technical assistance, special stulies and
research grants. The salaries of incremental staff, travel allowances
and vehicle operating costs would be financed on the basis of declining
percentages.
64.     Disbursements against expenditures for the following items would
be made against certified statements of expenditures, the documentation of
which would not be submitted to IDA for review, but would be retained by
the State Governments and GOI and made available to IDA review missions
for their inspection: (a) staff salaries, operating costs, local training
and plantation costs; (b) civil works contracts not exceeding Rs 300,000
and those carried out under force account; (c) locally procured vehicles,
equipment and furniture costing Rs 150,000 or less; and (d) research,
studies and local consultant costs. Disbursement against all other items
would be contingent upon full and satisfactory documentation. The disbur-
sement schedule has been based on the disbursement record for the ongoing
IDA-financed social forestry projects in India.
65.     The proposed USAID assistance of US$80.0 million would be dis-
bursed as follows: (a) field activities, including farm forestry and
nursery develcpment; tree ownership on government waste land; community



-20-
wasteland plantations; and reforestation of degraded forests and strips
plantations on government land; promotion of fuel savings devices; 30% of
total costs; (b) incremental staff salaries: 30Z of total costs; to be
financed on a declining basis; (c) staff training, farmer training,
central workshops, technical assistance, special studies and research
grants: 502 of total costs.
Accounts and Audit
66.     The office of the Special Secretary (GOI) in the Ministry of
Environment and Forests, and forest departments of participating States
would maintain separate accounts for all project expenditures categorized
by project component. Such accounts would be audited annually in accord-
ance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, and the audit
reports, together with certified copies of project accounts, submitted to
IDA within nine months after the end of the fiscal year.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
67.     At full development, the project's production of forestry products
comprising 8 million tons of fuelwood, 43.5 million poles, 0.13 million m3
of small timber, 7 million bamboo poles, 82.3 million tons of grass,
3.8 million tons of fodder, 0.52 million m3 of stemwood, 0.01 million tons
of edible flower, 0.03 million tons of fruit, 0.06 million tons of seed
pods, 0.1 million cocoons and other minor forestry products and tree
by-products, would assist in reducing the growing shortage of these
products. Direct beneficiaries would be about 6 to 8 million small and
marginal farmers expected to participate in the project. Other
beneficiaries would be the rural poor and semi-urban population who depend
on such forest produce. Over the five years of project implementation,
the plantation activities would generate a total of about 100 million
labor days of work, and the small nurseries would provide employment for
about 9,000 farmers and others involved in operating these nurseries. In
addition, the project would generate about 10,00C direct incremental jobs
for key field offices and support positions in the forest departments.
Furthermore, the project would strengthen the Central Social Forestry
Support Office and the forest departments of the participating States.
The project would also help to improve the ecology, soil fertility and
climatic conditions.
68.     The overall economic rate of return is estimated at 27%.  The
individual rates of return for the subprojects range from 17% for
Rajasthan to 34% for Himachal Pradesh. The sensitivity analysis carried
out indicates that the benefits would have to decrease by 67% or costs
increase by 201% for the project to be economically unattractive, and fall
below the opportunity cost of capital of 12%.
69.     The project faces no major risks.  However, shortage of funds
could become a problem if the States overextend themselves on other
forestry programs. The risk would be minimized by an agreement that the
States would inform the Association regarding any major developments



-21-
concerning their forestry programs over and above the project activities.
There is also a risk that farmers may favour planting of higher value
products other than fuelvood which could lead to oversupply of some
products. The risk is highly unlikely, because of the critical shortage
of forestry products of all types.  In addition, the wood balance studies
to be carried out under the project and the continuous monitoring and
evaluation including the proposed mid-term review, would help to avoid
over production of any product.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
States of Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh, and the
Recommendations of the Comittee provided for in Article V, Section l(d),
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
71.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
May 22, 1985



ANN   I
Page 1 of 5
T A E L C 3
INDIA                  - SOCIAL INDICATB DATA SNEE
INDIA                               REPERENM GROUPS (HICIID AVERAGES aI
HOST                    (MST RECENT EBTIATE) fb
196Ob    19OLb  RECET              LOWJ lUCRE           MID"L INCISE
197b1k    I9iOLk    ESTrIiATLb-     siA 6 PAciFIC        AStA & PACIFIC
AnE (TROAED SQ. U.)
TOTAL                               3297.6    3Z87.6      3287.1
AGRICULTUAL                         1763.5    2780.5      1812.3
CGP PR CAI;a (US)                        60.0     100.0       260.0           276.6                   1091.2
-IC COUUYII          CAPT
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)         79.0     113.0       158.0           27Z.0                   567.1
POATWnH A  VTAL SNTIBTlCS
POPUIAhION MID-VEAR (THOUSANDS)    434849.0  541364.0   716985.0
URBAN OPULATION t2 Or TOTAL)          18.0      19.8        24.1            21.7                    34.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YER 2000 (MILL)                            994.4
STATIONAXI POPULATtON (RILL)                            1707.2
POPULATION NEOMCN                                          1.7
POPUIATION DENSIm
PER SQ. Ki.                        132.3     166.6       213.4           166.6                    261.9
PIZ- SQ. 1X. AGRI. LAZED           246.6     307.5       387.1           345.5                   1735.1
POPULATION AGE ITRUCTURE (C
0-16 tItS                          40.9      42.7        39.3            35.6                     39.0
15-64 YTS                           54.5      54.2        57.6            56.8                    57.6
6S AMD AOVE                          4.6       3.1         3.1             4.3                      3.3
POPULATION GR0WTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                1.8       2.3         2.2             1.9                      2.3
URIBN                                2.5       3.3         3.9             4.1                      4.3
CRUDE 6IRI! RATE (PER THOUS)          47.7      41.4        34.2            27.7                    30.1
CRUDE DEAr.: RATE (PEEt THOUS)        23.8      17.8        12.7            10.1                     9.5
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.9       2.8         2.2             2.8                     2.0
FAMILY PLANING
ACCEPTORS, USUL ITHOCS)             64.0    3782.0      6826.0
USERS (t OF MARRIED lVCHEN)           ..      11.7        28.0              ..                    52.7
FOOD AS INEtlO0
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
t1969-71-100)                        98.0      102.0       101.0           112.8                   123.0
Pa CAPITA SUPPY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)        96.0      91.0        86.0            97.7                    114.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            54.0      50.0        46.0            56.8                    57.0
OF W311M ANMOS. AND PULSE         17.0       15.0       13.0 Ic         14.9                     14.1
CtILD CACIGS 1-4) DLATh RALTK         26.2      20.7        11.0             9.8                     7.Z
LIFE EXPCT. AT BITH (YEARS)           2.5      7.5        54.6            60.0                    60.4
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER TOU)         165.0      139.0       94.0            83.8                     66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (fPOP)
TOTAL                                 ..       17.0       33.0 ld         32.9                     37.0
,,BAN                                 ..      60.0        83.0 Id         70.9                    S4.8
RURAL                                 ..       6.0        20.0 Id         22.1                    26.4
ACCESS TO EICRETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..       18.0       20.0 le         15.1                    *1.3
URBAN                                 *-      85.0        87.0 7-         72.8                    67.4
RURAL                                 *-       1.0         2.0 Ie          4.6                    33.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICALN           4850.0    4890.0       3690.0 If       348.2                   7749.4
POP. PER NIRSINC PERSON            20980.0 ~   7420.0     5460.0 F        4793.1                  2460.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             2180.0    1650.0      1290.0 If       1066.5                   1044.2
URBAN                                 ..        .-       370.0 Id        298.0                   651.2
RURAL                                 ..        ..    104100 7'         S"3.                     294.6
AIHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        ..          ..             ..                     27.0
BDIIIIC
AVERAGE SU_2 OF HOlSEfOLD
TOTAL                                5.2       5.6         5.2 I.
URBAN                                5.2       5.6         4.8 7..
RURAL                                5.2       5.6         5.3 Ie
AVERACE NO. GF PEBSOMSIROGI
TOTAL                                2.6       2.8
URBAN                                2.6       2.8
RURAL                                2.6       2.8          .
ACCESS TO ELEC. (C OF DVELLINCS)
TOTAL                                 ..        ..
UA                                    ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..        ..          .               ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A I L I 3A
i:w                    -  OCIAUL ZNUICATU1            (
NOUT                      (IIS m10u" 381114263
UbC t               Low ZNCOH            KZODU 
196Igo    10lk    z XSfiAS 4           AS!A G PACIIC          ASIA I PACIFIC
ADJUSTED ENROLLMEIT RATIOI
PaIKars  TOTAL                        6L.0      73.0         9.o             97.4                     102.0
MAL                        3o.0       90.0       93.0            110.3                     105.9
FZKALZ                    40.0       56.0        64.0             63.7                      98.2
SECONDARYi  TOTAL                     20.0      26.0        30.0             35.9                      46.0
MA1Z                       30.0       36.0       39.0             44.6                      48.7
;1Z1AI                     10.0       15.0       20.0             26.3                      43.1
VOCATIONAL (Z 0 SECONDART)             2.8        1.0         0.7 /a           2.2                      17.5
PIPUP.-TE&CNTR ATIO
sW  PRIKA4Y *6.0                                41.0        54.0             38.3                      31.S
SECONDART                            16.0       21.0          ..             18.7                      23.5
ADULT LIrtlRCY RATE CZ)                 27.8       34.1       36.2             33.4                      72.9
COUU
P*sSENCER CARS/TNOUSUAD POP             0.6        1.1         1.4 Ib           0.9                      10.1
RAIO  RzCCzVzRS/TEOUSAND POP            4.9        21.3       43.6            112.1                     113.6
TV RECEIVERS/TUOUSAKD POP                0.0        0.0        1.7             15.7                      50.1
NEISPAPEE ("DAILY CEREtAL
zTERIST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSIAD POPULATIO                10.6       16.2       19.4 2L          16.2                      53.9
CD1  ANNUL ATTMODAMCEICAflYA             3.2        6.2        3.7  j           3.6                       3.4
LAM rami
TOTAL lABOR FORCE (IIOUS)           185951.0  219194.0   282169.0
FIKAL  (PERCENT)                      30.7       32.5       31.8             33.3                      33.5
AGRlCULTURZ (PERCENT)                 74.0      74.0        71.0             69.6                      52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCZNT)                    11.0       11.0       13.2             15.8                      17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PECUCE?)
TOTAL                                 42.6       40.0       39.4             42.6                      38.7
MALE                                  57.0       52.4       52.0             54.7                      50.9
FEMALE                                27.3       26.9       25.9             29.8                      26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDERCY RATIO                1.1       1.1         1.L              1.0                       1.1
1Rg5 DrS_UEO
PERCOIr OF PRVAE INCOIIZ
RECEIVED UY
RICHEST 5S or sousEDLS                26.7       26.3 A     22.2 1           22.2                      22.2
RICHEST 20S 0F DOUSEWLDS              51.7      48.9        49.4             48.0                      48.0
LOWEST 202 Or DOISEDULUS               4.1       6.k7        7.0              4.4                       6.4
LOUEST 40S OF I1OUb"_D                13.6       17.2 Rf    16.2 Z2          15.5                      15.5
NOV01? TAE  CRA
ESTMD ABSOLUTE POVEY INCOME
LEVEL (USS R  CAPIT)
UR(Um                                   ..        ..       132.0 /b         L33.9                     188.6
RMtAL                                  ..         ..       114.0 i          111.6                     152.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY IC
LE9V1L CUSS PaR CAPITA)
URAN                                   ..         ..          ..               ..                     177.9
RURAL                                   ..        ..          ..               ..                     164.6
ESTDIAUTD POP. BELOW ABSOLUE
POVERTY IrICOE LEVEL CZ)
URN"                                   ..         ..        40.3             43.8                      23.4
RURAL                                   ..        ..        50.7             51.7                      37.7
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O TES 5
la   The gro?p av r~eag for each lndLcator ar population.emalhted arithmetic aeuna. Covariag  of coutirlc samong  eb
ledicatorm depends on avallabillcy of date  nd 1n not unifom
lb   Unless othebwia noted, "Data for 1960" relfr to any yar betwee  1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betweeu 1969 and
1971; and data for "Moet Recent Ztluata" be_tnn 1980 and 192.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /a 197S; /f 1978; J  1962; /h 1979; A 1964-65.
JUNE, 1984



ANNEX I
Welcomed___                                                     Pg~e   3   o~f   5
seenco   httk.0  the dl. a do-t Fee at. a.nahtl  adled th I              ael Adna  eaLtabi. is *tnt eta. h. Wna  ch. f0ar d, -  it  aaaleat
.a*ta at a   aS  t a.datdt taltan  - .aan   I?  Ufsae  nea.. I ettlata  wb dcA.. I'a  ., G         ne . -coocAe. anta  tA
desie aed-t at tapttal.    Admc,aftedoei. -A attaai.nete.e.    dtttaenehat...    atece.
ua. -rc-.. mpa a.. "Ii li.    ideeds  aa."A.t ch. aadhJen  fea  Ode (a) . denact.aa..1 hre ee    l.a.-.. tea. nbe anal.?.0                  aaa  1 ale
..J ge"Act., t..eap  ta' UK% tea  us ftaaa.ea   gang St.. ,111dols  me beh Amee. d  Uddsi IGat. I. ch... tn            .t naneqd.  lA-.atae
arndda-...t.  I. ale          ""  "    "  `ala..   ana.d.a        141na    ca  sttnntba    tlatata -  Wee all -1. ad   at,  k    Ia.   c an.-A. 
gene h.. ont. rae the  4taetleaaa   U- the tare at anal.            ale  Strata daI d  -tbaeaatlebltuleegateaad Ia-   eitq..n*  ~0aln  -t ha
A...,~.eeie. n-                 alS.-.ey k. -L- t- sat nata  Ba    tta  -b ast.   - a  tad"...-   . ttn  -                            b. --L., -,
-n-=Is..   - tattl  attestaa   s   ngte.acdtatl,                    OFanat          . ..0          Mel-           atata  ,tadb  a.  tattlen
-   p-a,-a. -Ah. -d kitAfa   at.. C. - . S It. atAt.at Is".                  eatta  A-a.tt-ate         aa    tta   aaa   sttn  ta 
.0.%  -d --0ea,aeta  -     attatatt  ad
- aeare..a.meeat  -  eeatemae...a                            aitakI. Ia pAtS. adm W   - eI.aee-  -a4 aesUtag              IFta e.gr
tea.. Ce Ola.    1ti  dt.-                                                           he -  na  --tk L-te. Canaha-ain. palea   e.tet   tcd
P"-I~~ -Oldd 41- -1 bl4ta  -  -  tyemnn. e..Chaplee t... -aItdclack                                 a
an-en.enasatsl               - astaaeaee..u            ata-etuaaalaa.aa- eaeae,aaagotre hittaten  (bta, dine
a4pd aaehaet .1areddAtly) 1e kltaatan . .4L "a-al,na   -ee  aeptlt tea..             p-a4da  t        'ltd tae at ndta.t Adet USt..
dCl        etae.                                                                                         a  nhtafiate.   --de.haa
am.                                              r-~~~~~Aaf~ ta   mn wa.d e   I-  aat.adeylaaane
F-C ~ ~ eol~   129                                 el    IM.    -  aC.pA-.   ae.eS   itIat   51al.a   na 
.edd  wpcoc~  1, "   - ad  bedal n-tettr ad latley                       dntltat. taaatasv      kbittat  anted   ne,ma   .tn.
W."a. lI  aran  eapaA tttetti,ld 14en L-MSi -Lan t-enS.                          at e At. attn. ds tetat atl. Maetl
nina  deetn t lat -lIc atead-a.     , neladt eadtn  tat.?C-t-
eltt.ata.. Itank   e-aytun t-. naetd nA  et tn *l
inente   St   ett. ad  eaftata Aetad  Cat ttaooIfftta.snn                   jaeg.Ii
.Es fIEi-Ca en -a sIn  en-ad na-a  ttit  meettea.                                                           -;=Ite   entet   l         at
an..- -L  te. atlag   h. SIt,e         1 ataatea  attya .                     al-  qae *ff.               W ametit-atn    ttaae
nen  Aa at -tt   aaaatnd          ~           1-       A. teeee   tae taaan.. aen-a, adtlfl.ae  aeete al-a -r aeataaa.                      e
caeaatt. entt.  ae   * altn  Ce. hiteb raLe          . -aata                       gat at adWae  le.  dataa t.-    atahaa tale...-iatn tae
- etat . ab daak eae.eleAt  tnaea  lefeS    dt                               nea  sIki A.ai  ee  a1.ne     - matea   yan 1ire
aedSt te aetCe d Caeaetla-a  eatanCat lan- yat.                            ait   e   - Casat ml a    am.-            e"'a sam-"     ade
me.adth  re.       ata  -taalt~  .a eea.te       tnt                         .aae  tas`L   a  lnatie  Lae    t n.eaa  tre-r asasgm
7eStatmta   atana..lttli,b  bnnhsd   t                                         nt   -aiall del Ia tt a ea  at aZ. t.taa...     e   ta
te   n   tAr I  .  tetennet  ma   ea    sly. lb.                            gmiyetdd
niaStaeae.l  t  k  a.e.    t Ceeeaa   n a-tl St tC                        naeAtertae  e.e   t.e.4et-C.atslnCat
Sm.-. Itt ea.                                                                    t.atC.ah, ec-   etna   d artaae    e. .1.A -asnt  -..n. -I..
C.Wa-e;es ~. A.M.adls  at.kteate.                                                             Ca.. -a -dre. - Uaat eatntei  a  5a  .a -L-
nun t-e    -ten  a-1  ant.W  a-tea..                                                       -
-    tc    i iad kj.a   acti tateneat Ct Sd. -elad-Ptaa   A.. fa    ta                                      an."ata  - Jaafte.esn e ORa  mea-
yAsteta la-           .    oft~aaC    d- ..al-intga.h ae.a aalS-                     gtea  nhat.
NoaaehaC. ,'t.At-,.a   eUa                                               aa-aasstce a-taan--Iat-  t L.a     rrL-e  at-ti
P-LA..Cln                                         &"D.bttaeatt.atn   n    aa  ms   tek 19                     tee--T dad at taaat. aa.elin          I
ag  ehi.tn    ia)-an   enb9b   tCaa.atS--    nI  tse   n  Ca. nasasty t   -ea.my    - =teaykt ata -in
V,                                           Ad-L au  ie. eE,  d   a  dle           an ded .b-.t ite lleaaal.t.H
taalttC  anl:  nafy taty.  enn   at.A761m   Ce teas  t eed.                                                                Wf-ateaa   aa sa   naa    aet.;dta    .aaata
tea?.                                                                          pbll-aeaa datesa t-1.t-1,   .  namd-yiaaae in. R-tC aa"         aa
tat   lna  - aeta    eelba.dj.ati.tatpae                                      - ha datlytt IIflaeeS tma Eay   slca. a in.-
yadtt rltn - taaee teae.en at asetiad eatft'. -                                 -ae ,aeat at" -eeF-a- meat.%ate.
-een at                                                                                                                k .m ta  t       -eteeel1  bab   a
=                e-tedt  t       tel-' edti-C  ltite-Olta -               Tat. lope betaIR tseeded    . ttaat  mee t-d,  neta 
P-an. -meanSeeptt  nt I0.atsa  eatI eta, at- faa.d6emaaneadt  anplage   teata.aaSt.  C.*a
lada a   rt    aeeta -ay Cdc-tt - fttll7.n  . "W. ge-eat at - ac. 'oLe,el-let. e-    Cain n. ta-ylae  -t Isa- t-dle  afta. 
-ad a     Wd  salda rae. tAWAl.WeLla edL. m1r telt  atdaCe                      ata-laa - teals P-.ne ta-e  M..  tn- . tWea t-eAt P-o-.
at-ayin tana  at2  tAtl-tin a.mglhetbte IIad ae-de   ata da eedal,ieai- edtt.ataa.aea.ee.                                                setga
adre. -ad am a-        ca e Aadt pc. aata Wtadee -a t aa - ney -d-                 eteeaa.nt   da      aeet tesltt.yt.  ia   it
tnad as enteni at   t      ae  ne    eal. n lsa: tiInt Cit ad- tnUmdtewr d.te.p                                     ~        - A '  1
-                                                                                y.ed ejd Pbate tppenat - latet. IWO     aS *amte  yanllt-aft
-e satanea. t tata e.aatSEeaatene  -c,latala  te.daat   a                                 ae   tant.M M     aMa ad taLa tr.eba  at
dar.tnlthSe  enlle at --e-Ate atdtla  nn   ae                               eS  it.a tteit dna.1--          -  in e alt. aelyseeatlas t
.sd,ettnmp  d e End  oadtio- "Acd  " asaa     dlatln        I-gmen.                Ca aalme   a-- t       _ nl _aet  As..~
enlaty a  lelal tdat.eaeat.2-2.e4. Ron  es.  lad.1 aeane_tt I   .ant__lk
atadan-   tnitda =t-tatt.  ad, diteaba C  temst-            
- anatd laCe SCil.  Ifea   an dtan                                            aeCIgoal  Cl
tee  eatt ina attreela dea    MeR-yaal  na   tta    Iep  ena   t.aa.lee CekI    et ditd -bln   t elDat C
rat . taede, tadae is acedma nbadh   an   ena         a
wdPt.                                                                       atinidoe



AllI
Pa4e 4 Of 5
*USIC DEVEWBUT DATA
CNP P  CWTrA IN 191-5260  j/
CRSS DOI# IC PRODUCT in 1983184 hi                                          ANNUAL tAIS oF aCm  (E. Conatant Prtice)
ss/56-59/60 60161-65  6566-69/70  70/71-74/75  75/76-79/80 80/m1-82/83
USS sin.    2
CDM at Market inca               18i.81    100.0                    3.7          3.6         3.7         2.9          4.1          5.1
Gross Domstic Ineast              45.94      24.0
Gross National Saving             43.17      22.7
Current Accost blast              -2.17      -1.5
OUTPu   WOI PORCE AN D PRODUCrVf IN 1981
Value added (at factor cost)      tIabor Force i/   V.. Per worker
USS Uin.               r          Nil.       2               of rae iiona  Average
Agricultue                        52.5                  35.9        172.7    70.6    3046        S1
Ilidustry                         34.5                  23.6         31.6    12.9   1092        183
Services                          59.2                  40.5         40.3    16.5   1469        246
TotallAverage                    146.2                 100.0        2U4.6   100.0    598       0iO
GOVERMET FINANC
General Covonment e/                              Central Cov ent
Ra. in.            I of COP                   Ra. Bin.          =I of CU
1913/4      1983B4   1979/191983/a4    1983184    1979/80-1984
Current Receipte                 378.54         19.3           19.5            201.67        10.3            10.3
urrant Expenditures             397.12         20.3           19.4            225.42        11.5            10.9
Current Surplus/Defict           -18.58         -1.0            0.1            -23.75        -1.2            -0.6
Capital Expenditures f/          149.64          7.7            8.0             114.12        5.8             5.8
External Assistance (net) dl      19.16          1.0            1.1
MM. CEEDIT AND CPRceS            1970/71  1975/76  1978/79  1979/80  1980181 1981182  1982183  1983184 January 1984 Januar   1985
C(R Billo  outstandiug a end of period)
Homey and Quest Nonay            109.8    224.8   401.1   472.3   557.7   627.5   728.7   860.9            835.1        993.9
lank Credit to Government (use)   54.6    106.3   159.3   200.1   257.2   306.3   353.8   407.7            403.1        483.9
fank Credit to Coercial Sector  64.6    156.2   255.3   310.1   366.4   434.6   517.1   612.7              575.5        685.0
(Percentage or Index Nusbers)                   ,  April-Jan 83/B8    April-Jan 86/85
Honey and Quasi Honey as a S
of GDP                          27.3      30.3    41.1    "4.1    43.7    42.5    44.5    44.0
Uholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                100.0    173.0   185.8   217.6   257.3   281.4   288.6   315.2            313.6           336.7
Annual Percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index              7.7      -1.1      -       17.1    18.2      9.4      2.6      9.2        9.2             7.4
lank Creit to Government (net)   15.0       22.7    16.0    25.6    28.5    19.1    15.1    15.3            16.9 W          23.2 hi
lrak Credit to Co_aerial Sector  19.4       22.7    20.3    21.5    18.2    18.6    17.7    18.7            13.8 T          15.6 h
/ The per capita CUP estimte Is at earket prices, using World Bank Atlas methodology. base period 1981-83.
All other conversolns to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quick Estimtes. Central Statistical Organizatio.
-        T/ Computed from trend lie of GUP at factor cost serles, inc,$ding one observetion before first year and one observation after
lest year of listed period.
d/ World lank estimtes of net disbursement of concessional aid and IWR.
e/ Tranfers betwea Centre and States have been netted out.
f| All loan end advances to third partias have bean netted out.
*       j/  Perentage change from end-March 1983 to end-Jan.84.
h/ Percentage change from end-March 1984 to end-Jan.85.
Ii  Total labor Forte and percentage breakdown from 1981 Census. Excludes data for Ass_.



ANNM I
Pam 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAHENTS                   1981/82    1982/83     1983/84     1984/85      IOCHADISE EXPORTS (AmEUA  1980/81-1983/8&) jI
(US  KIn.)                                                                                                          uSS lin. S
Exports of Goods _j/                   8.519      8,290       8.355       8.724      Enginering Goods                1115      13
Iaports of Goods g/                  -15.301   -14,290    -14.040      -14.501       Tea                              469       6
Trad  Balance                        - 6,782    - 6.000     - 5.685     - 5,777      Glms                            1009      1Z
NFS (net)                              1,002        935         94B      1,098       Clothing                         688      8
Leather and Leather Products    343       4
Resource Balance                     - 5,780    - 5.065     - 4.737     - 4,678      Jute llaufactures                269       3
1rm  Ore                        400       5
Interest Incos (net) k/                  350   -   302    -  664    -  785           Cotton Textiles                  316       4
Net Transfers 1/                       2.317      2.504       2.880      2,930       Sugar                            104       1
Others                         3704      44
klance on Current Account            - 3.113    - 2.863     - 2.521    -2,533
Direct Investmnt                          10         65         62          61
Total                          8417    1OD
Offical Loas & Crants (net)           1.681      1,901       1.961       1,944
Gross Disbursements                    2.269      2.513       2.578      2,585       ETERNAL  EBT, MRCR 31. 1984
Amortization                             588        612         617        641
US$ billion
Private Borrowing (net)                  338        366         528        844
Outstanding and Disbursed                21.5
Non-Resident Deposits                    260        578         903        600       llndisbursed                             10.4
Tr action with 1Fl (net)                 690      1.980       1.295         70       Outstanding including Undisbursed         31.9
All other Item   /                   - 2.264    - 1.522     - 1.347       - 683
Increase In Reserves (-)               2.398   -   504    -   582         - 303      DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983/84 I nI/     13.6 per cent
Gross Reserves (end year) pl           4.461      4.965       5.847       6.150
Net Reserves (end yer) s/              3.497      2.089       1.697       2.250
IERD/IDA LENDDING. MARCH 31. 1985 1/
Fuel and Related Materials
US 5 millon
Imports (Petroleolm)                   5.553      4,614       2.983      3,026                                            IBRD     IDA
of which: Crude                      3,921      3,139       2.183       1.015
Products                   1.632      1,475          00      2,010      Oustanding and Disbursed             2.158   8,902
Undisbureed                         4,326   3.748
Outstanding including Undisbursed    6.484   12,650
RATE OF EXCHAEGE
June 1966 to uid-December 1971    :  US51.00 - RN  7.50
Rs 1.00 - U5SO.13333
Hid-December 1971 to end-June 1972:  Ub51.OO - Ra 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - U5$0.137376
After end-June 1972              :  Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-March 1984         :  USS1.00 - RH  10.7181
Rs 1.00 - US50.0933
Spot Rate end-March 1985         :  US$1.00 - Rs 12.3457
Rs 1.00 - USSO.0810
| Estimted
/ Fures given cover all investmnt income (net). Major paymnte are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to IP.
and major receipts is interest earned on foreiga assets.
1/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude offical grant assistance which is Included within official loans
and grants. and non-resident deposits which ar shown separately.
m/ Exclude net use of DI  credit-
_; Amortization and interest paymnts on foreign loans as a percentage of total current receipts.
0/ Includes exchange rate adjunstents to the valuation of reserves and fin ncing of imbalances in rupee trade.
ril 5xcludia! gold.
_/ Net of petroletn  exports



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
TRE STATUS OF MMNK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATCEKNT OF MANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1985)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (let of Cancellatioun)
Credit   Year of
NRo.    Avvrova,         Pur2052                        lAnk         IDA 1i      Udikbureed 3J
52 Loans/                                             2,379.0          -             -
A      96 Credits fully disbursed                                 -       5,589.2            -
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                                   30.0          6.06
610-IN    1976     Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0          0.01
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Prade;h Irrigation           145.0          -           14.17
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                     25.0          -            3.66
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0          8.05
682-IN    1977     Orissa Agric. Development             -           20.0          1.32
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -           12.0          6.34
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0          -            1.90
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage              -          107.0         32.50
761-1U    1978     Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research              -            8.0           .85
1511-IN    1978     IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0          -            1.37
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0          -            0.02
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                  -         117.6          30.30
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                   -          200.0         23.31
806-IN    1978     Jammu-Kashmir Borticulture            -           14.0          9.12
815-IN    1978     Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5          7.91
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                     -           16.0          2.29
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII              120.0         -             7.21
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                        -         150.0          27.26
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II                -          196.0        119.03
844-IN    1979     Railway Modernization
6 Maintenance                      -          190.0         14.50
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -          38.0           3.70
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research        -           27.0         11.99
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -            25.0           0.40
871-IN    1979     National Cooperative Development
Corporation                        -           30.0          0.18
! 874-IN    1979   Ramagundam Thermal Pover              -         200.0           0.06
1648-TB    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0         -            45.98
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                     -         129.0          26.82
899-IN    1979     Maharashtra Water Supply              -          48.0           0.45
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II        -         175.0           3.25
954-IN    1980     Haharashtra Irrigation II             -         210.0          25.86
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry            -          37.0           2.70
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                      -          20.0          14.41
981-IN    1980     Population II                         -          46.0          23.27
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -          32.0          16.81
1011-I.'    1980    Gujarat Irrigation II                 -         175.0          84.89
1012-IN    1980     Cashewnut                             -          22.0          14.74
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                  -         300.0         124.04



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Yet of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                        Bank         IDA 1,     lndisbursed 2/
1028-I    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extensiou        -          10.0           6.28
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport             -          56.0          15.71
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                -           54.0         24.87
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Beverage   -           80.0          44.81
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                   99.2         -             3.96
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                -         225.0          75.02
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power               25.0         -            25.00
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                 30.0          -           18.40
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                    -          35.0           9.75
1078-IN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                    -          83.0          35.99
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II          -          42.0          19.31
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Medium Irrigation               -         140.0          74.08
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII              -         314.0          71.66
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation            -          54.0          33.13
1125-IN    1981     Hazira Fertilizer Project            -         399.1          77.24
1135-IN    1981     Haharashtra Agricultural Ext.        -          23.0           8.96
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.         -          28.0          14.27
1138-IN    1981     H.P. Agricultural Ext. II            -          37.0          23.98
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II              -          125.0         62.87
1172-fl   1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II       -         400.0         243.01
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation      -         220.0         140.86
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint               100.0         -             8.60
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry          -          29.0          18.21
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development             -          25.0          13.31
2051-IN    1982     ICICI XIV                          150.0         -            44.73
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Power II        300.0         -           264.07
1219-1N    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.   -             6.0           4.36
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization         200.0         -            76.58
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III          304.5         -           248.98
1269-fL   1982      Kallada Irrigation                   -          60.0          25.13
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                  20.3         -            20.00
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                 -          72.0          57.11
1286-IN    1983     Jasu/Kashmir and                                         -
Raryana Social Forestry           -           33.0         22.45
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madhya Pradesh               -           -
Irrigation II                     -          31.0          17.87
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation              -         127.0        101.25
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration       165.5         -          121.55
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    -          200.0        167.25
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                  200.0          -          197.04
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Development      139.3         -           133.71
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                -         150.0         100.78
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubewells II             -         101.0          87.73
1356-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power          -         170.0         142.99
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power        156.4         -           156.01



JZiNEX I I
Page 3 of 4
Us$ sillion
L_uJn or  7iucal                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
Be.. _   AnovaLl        Zuruos                         ^EDk              1/    Jndimbgul r   /
1369-Il    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III       -          147.0        128.60
1383-I?1   1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        -           32.0         24.45
2308-TI    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7         -           22.64
2283-IN    19B3     Central Pover Transmission         250.7          -          250.07
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2         -           45.02
X   2329-ID    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban                24.1         -            23.80
1397-TI    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                 -          105.0         76.24
1424-IN   1984      Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.         -           31.0         29.14
1426-IN    1984     Population III                       -           70.0         65.63
1432-ID    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry        '   -           27.0         21.93
2387-IN    1984     Nbava Sheva Port                   250.0          -          247.92
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                     151.0          -          150.62
24U3-IN    1984     Cambay Basin Petroleum             242.5          -          241.90
2415-ID    1984     Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer          203.6          -          200.18
1483-IN    1984     Upper Ganga Irrigation               -          125.0        116.47
1496-IT   1984      Gujarat Medium Irrigation            -          172.0        145.22
2417-IN    1984     Railways Electrification*          280.7          -          280.70
2442-IN    1984     Farakka II Thermal Power*          300.8          -          300.80
2416-IN    1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric*      157.4          -          157.40
SF-20-IN   1984     Indira Sarovar Eydroelectric*        -          129.8        129.80
2452-IN    1984     Fourth Trombay Thermal Power*      135.4          -          135.40
1454-IN    1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply              -           36.5         34.99
SF-12-ID   1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply              -           36.5         34.99
1468-IN    1984     Periyar Vaigai II irrigation         -           17.5         16.46
SF-16-IN   1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation         -           17.5         16.46
1502-TB    1984     National Cooperative
Development Corporation III        -         220.0         205.99
1514-IN    1985     Kerala Social Forestry               -           31.8         30.33
1523-TB    1985     National Agric. Extension I*         -           39.1        .39.10
1544-IN    1985     Bombay Urban Development*            -          138.0        138.00
Total                                   6,818.3    12,934.1
of which has been repaid              1.269.9       194.6
Total now outstanding                   5,548.4    12,739.5
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -           -
Total nov held by Bank and IDA  /       5,548.4    12,739.5
Total undisbursed (excluding *)         2,575.90    3,333.48
1, IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1985.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31 1985)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                     Company                       Loan     Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5        -        1.5
1959            Rirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.8        -        0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4        -        1.4
1961            R.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2        -        0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6       0.4       1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8       1.3      13.1
1964            Laksbmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0       0.3       1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1       0.1       1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1       3.8      18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                         6.6        -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                            4.0       1.2       5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5        1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Linited         15.9        -       15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0           -      38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0        -       15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9       0.3       3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3        -       2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steel: Limited                1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                 28.0         -       28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.             18.8        -       18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.              15.5        -       15.5
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.             8.1        -       8.1
1984            The Gvalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        3.5        -        3.5
1985            Bihar Sponge                           8.9        0.8      9.7
1985            Bajaj Auto Ltd.                       20.5         -      20.5
1985            Modi Cement                            12.0       _        12.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS        251.9       12.9    264.8
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales           139.1        6.2    145.3
Now Held                    112.8        6.7    119.5
_dsbuse  78 =        7===
Undisbursed                  72.8        0.8     73.6



ANNE III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
NATIONAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SEUET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
18 months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
COI, COG, GOHP, GOR and COUP assisted by the
Association.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
The project was first discussed by a joint
Bank/USAID/IDA subsector review mission in February
1983. The first of the four States' preparation
reports was 1984 (April).
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October/November 1983.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 1985.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 1985.
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) each State would limit free distribution of seedlings under
the project, and sell the rest at prices estimated to cover
most of direct production cost (para. 48);
(b) By April 30, 1986, GOI would sanction the new position of
the head of Social Forestry Support Office, and a Conservator
of Forests for Planning, GOR would sanction the position of a
Conservator for planning, monitoring and evaluation; and
COUP, Additional Chief Conservators of Forests (para. 54);
(c) each State would make adequate provision of vehicles and
travel allowance for field staff (para. 56); and
(d) each State would undertake a joint review of the project with
GOI, IDA and USAID by Harch 31, 1988 (para. 57).



Annex IV
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Millions)
--- Procurement Method --Total
ICB       LCB        OTHER       NA       Cost
Civil Works                                  5.9         18.6        -      24.5
(3.0)       (9.3)             (12.3)
Vehicles and Equipment             -          -          11.7        -      11.7
-         (1.9)              (1.9)
Training                                      -          -          5.4      5.4
(2.7)   (2.7)
Support to SAUs, Special           -          -          -          0.7     0.7
Studies and Tech'l Ass'ce                                        (0.3)   (0.3)
Plantation Activities and          -          -          -        211.4   211.4
Fuel Saving Devices                                            (126.8) (126.8)
Salaries & Allowances              -          -          -         53.8    53.8
(18.8) (18.8)
Vehicle and Office O&M             -          -          -         20.3    20.3
and Other Expenditures           -          -          -         (2.2)   (2.2)
5.9        33.3      291.6   327.8
(3.0)      (11.2)   (150.8) (165.0)
(Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by the credit)



lii   m u i   I s NS4                  
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
r~~~
-1.  r                      - i  \Ml'*kL
X L  I E-: 'r     E B     t        ,   g C






