Docurnent of
The World Bank
Report No: 22042-GE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LENDING (CREDIT)
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.3 MILLION (US $27 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
GEORGIA
FOR AN
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF
THE IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE REVITALIZATION PROGRAM
May 25, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2001)
Currency Unit = Georgian Lari (GEL)
Lari I = US$0.50
US$ 1 = Lari 2
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AA              Amelioration Association
ADP             World Bank Agriculture Development Project
APC             Adaptable Program Credit
ARET            World Bank Agricultural Research, Extension and Training Project
ASC              Amelioration Service Cooperative
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CIS             Commonwealth of Independent States
CPFMR           Country Portfolio Financial Management Review
DAWE            Department of Amelioration and Water Economy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
EA              Environmental Assessment
EMP             Environmental Management Plan
EU              European Union
FAO             Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GOG             Government of Georgia
IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA             International Development Association
IDCDP           Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project
IDPIU           Irrigation and Drainage Project Implementation Unit
IMT             Institutional Management Team
LACI            Loan Administration Change Initiative
MAF             Ministry of Agriculture and Food
MOF              Ministry of Finance
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
O&M             Operation and Maintenance
PCC             Projects Coordination Center
PIC              Project Implementation Center
PMC             Project Management Committee
PMR             Project Management Report
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
PRA             Participatory Rapid Appraisal
SA              Social Assessment
SOE             Statement of Expenditure
TACIS           Technical Assistance to Commonwealth of Independent States (EU)
VAT             Value-added Tax
Vice President:    Johannes Linn
Country Director:    Judy O'Connor
Sector Director:     Kevin Cleaver
Sector Leader:    Joseph Goldberg
Task Team Leader:    Joop Stoutjesdijk                            ___ _



GEORGIA
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                  Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                 3
2. Project development objective                                                       3
3. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  7
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                   8
C. Program and Project Description Sumnmary
1. Project components                                                                 11
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      16
3. Benefits and target population                                                     18
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      18
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          22
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         24
3. Lessons leamned and reflected in proposed project design                           25
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   26
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        26
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          26
2. Financial                                                                          28
3. Technical                                                                          29
4. Institutional                                                                      30
5. Environmental                                                                      33
6. Social                                                                             35
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 38
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    39



2. Critical risks                                                                      40
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      42
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             42
2. Other                                                                               42
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           43
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          44
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           45
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     49
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          63
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    64
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                75
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        76
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      87
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    88
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   89
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             91
Annex 11: Letter of Development Program                                                   93
Annex 12: Amelioration Associations                                                       98
MAP(S)
IBRD 31474



GEORGIA
Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: May 25, 2001                               Team Leader: Joop Stoutjesdijk
Country Manager/Director: Judy M. O'Connor        Sector Manager/Director: Joseph R. Goldberg
Project ID: P055068                               Sector(s): Al - Irrigation & Drainage
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Prograrn Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL            Indicative Financing Plan        Implementation Period          Borrower
_____  ___________ __  (Bank FY)
IDA            Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m      US$ m         Date        Date
APL 1       27.00    82.3     5.80       32.80    11/01/2001   04/30/2007 Government of Georgia
Loan/ Credit
Credit__                            _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 2       33.00    80.9    7.80        40.80    11/01/2006   04/30/2011 Government of Georgia
Loan/ Credit
Credit                                        __ __ __ __
APL 3       30.00    80.2     7.40       37.40    11/01/2010   04/30/2014 Government of Georgia
Loan/ Credit
C red it               ________  I  I__ _ _ _ _          I _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ __I__ _ _ _
Total       90.00  I _       21.00      111.00   I__
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 27.00
| Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%                            Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                               Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                       4.60           0.00          4.60
IDA                                                           21.60           5.40         27.00
FARMER ORGANIZATIONS                                           1.20           0.00          1.20
Total:                                                        27.40           5.40         32.80
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
Address: 8 Machabeli Street, Tbilisi 380008, Georgia
Contact Person: Constantin Mgeladze, Project Manager
Tel: 995-32-931466                Fax: 995-32-921467                Email: wbidrppiu@access.sanet.ge



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY 5       2002   1 |;00 2003   1 f 0  2004  12005S   2006   J2007?  
Annual    2.00       6.70       6.80 I    5.60      3.90      2.00
Cumulative    2.00      8.70      15.50     21.10     25.00      27.00
Project implementation period: November 1, 2001 - October 31, 2006
Expected effectiveness date: 11/01/2001  Expected closing date:  04/30/2007
OCS APL PAD FOl.,e M.. 



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The purpose of the program will be to revitalize the irrigation and drainage sub-sectors and to
develop the institutional foundation for the sub-sectors' long-term sustainability for the benefit of increased
crop production, and subsequent improvement in farm family incomes, on an area of about 255,000
hectares (ha). The main focus for institutional development will be on farmers' participation through
Amelioration Associations (AAs) for operation and maintenance (O&M) of the infrastructure under their
management (this infrastructure typically comprises secondary, tertiary and lower-order systems, but in
some cases it is envisaged that smaller primary systems may also be under the management of AAs). Use
of these networks will initially be transferred to AAs under long-term usufruct arrangements.
In order to allow for proper functioning of the infrastructure under the management of AAs, the
program will contribute financially to the rehabilitation and improvement of this infrastructure. Also, to
ensure proper functioning of water delivery and collector drainage systems, selected low cost rehabilitation
of main systems under the management of Georgia's State Department of Amelioration and Water
Economy (DAWE) will be carried out under the program. Subsequent phases of the program will focus on
expanding these activities, while it is also envisaged that during these phases some or all of the main
systems now operated and maintained by DAWE will become the responsibility of enlarged or federated
AAs. The program is to extend over 12 years and is divided into three phases, the first of which is planned
to last 5 years.
,I
Throughout this document, the term Amelioration Association (AA) refers to community-based organizations for water
management, established as legal bodies under Public Law, either in drainage schemes or irrigation schemes.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to increase agricultural production and farm incomes on 110,000 ha
by arresting further deterioration of irrigation and drainage infrastructure and keeping the operable
infrastructure functional, through: (i) establishment and support to AAs that will take over O&M of
irrigation and drainage systems within their service territories; (ii) repair and rehabilitation of irrigation and
drainage infrastructure to improve irrigation water conveyance and distribution, and drainage discharge;
and (iii) limited support to DAWE to improve its management of rehabilitated irrigation and drainage
infrastructure. These objectives will be achieved through: (a) development of functional AAs, formed on
the basis of a revised Law on Amelioration; (b) repair and rehabilitation of selected main irrigation and
drainage infrastructure, such as headworks, conveyance canals and collector drains; (c) rehabilitation and
improvement of AA-managed irrigation and drainage infrastructure; and (d) improvement in irrigation
management through technical assistance and training in engineering, agriculture and management
practices. Rehabilitation works will only be carried out where AAs have been established, and have
demonstrated their willingness to participate in the project by committing contributions from their own
resources.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards the development objective in the project areas where AAs have been established
and strengthened and have benefited from physical project interventions will be measured based on the
following main impact indicators:
*   annual amount of water supplied to AAs as per contract with DAWE;
- 3 -



* distribution of adequate water to users within the territory of AAs;
*   adequate drainage of land within the territory of AAs;
*   total area under AA management irrigated; and
*   increase in average crop production per ha for wheat, maize and grapes (three major crops).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17000-GE          Date of latest CAS discussion: September 22, 1997
The project will mainly address the objective of deepening and diversifying sources of growth,
while also strengthening public finances by laying the foundation for improved cost recovery in the
irrigation and drainage sub-sectors and assisting poor rural families to increase their incomes. The
agricultural sector currently leads the economy in terms of privatization of resources and growth rates.
Rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage infrastructure will be a prerequisite for future growth of the
sub-sectors, as will be the institutional reforms promoted by the project to ensure participation of farmers
in operating and maintaining irrigation and drainage systems. The improved potential for production of
quality and high-value crops will provide a base from which Georgia will be able to exploit new marketing
opportunities for exports of agricultural produce, with a long-term view towards strengthening the
traditional markets in the former Soviet Union and opening up new markets elsewhere.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
General. Georgia is a small Caucasus country with a population of 5.5 million. The country
relies heavily on agriculture, and produces a variety of agricultural products, including (as a percentage of
total value of agricultural production) grain crops (54 percent), wine (12 percent) and fruits (11 percent).
Agriculture contributed about 36 percent to GDP in 1999, and the sector employs about 54 percent of the
total labor force. Because of its relative size and role in employment, growth of the agricultural sector is
critical to Georgia's overall economic growth and prosperity.
After independence from the former Soviet Union in 1991, the economy suffered from civil strife, a
war in Abkhazia, and disruptions of trade routes by conflicts in neighboring countries. These events
severely undermined the Govemment of Georgia's (GOG) capacity to conduct economic policy and led to
the specter of serious food shortages. Grain donations became necessary. The situation stabilized only
after the IMF, the World Bank, the EU and others provided assistance in 1995 and thereafter. Also,
cropping pattems are now geared less towards export crops and more towards staples.
Government policy is oriented towards: (a) development of a secure and adequate supply of food
for the Georgian population; and (b) exploitation of agro-industrial potential where Georgia has a
comparative advantage. Further, the Govermnent is committed to providing a supportive environment for
the emerging private farming sector. Its strategy is to promote the institutional structures that support free
market production. It was quick to recognize the need to liberalize prices and implement a progressive
trade regime and has made significant progress over the last few years.
Indeed, a partial recovery of agriculture can be observed in recent years. However a number of
factors hamper the sector's rapid development, including: (i) a state-controlled land market; (ii)
inaccessibility of inputs, including good quality seed, fertilizers, pesticides, machinery, and limited credit
availability; (iii) inadequate agricultural support services; (iv) a breakdown in the marketing system; and
(v) malfunctioning irrigation and drainage schemes.
- 4 -



Land Reformn and Farm Restructuring. Under the provisions of Government Resolution 48 of
January 1992, 26 percent of all agricultural land had been privatized by October 1997. This included 57
percent of all arable land, including land under perennials, 30 percent of meadows, and 7 percent of
pastures. Most of this land is in family plots of up to 1.25 ha and is mainly used for subsistence
agriculture. The rest remains under public ownership. Under the Land Lease Law, passed in 1996, land
that was not distributed to individuals can be commercially leased from the State for up to 49 years,
although most lease terms are currently less than 10 years. Rental charges are negligible. It is estimated
that about 25 percent of all agricultural land has been leased. Official sale of individual plots is currently
blocked by lack of land certification and registration. In an effort to create a more liquid land market, the
IDA-funded Agricultural Development Project (ADP) is assisting with two pilot projects to develop
procedures and methodologies for land mapping and registration.
Inputs. Machinery Services and Credit. Farmers lack cash for purchase of chemicals (including
herbicides, pesticides and fertilizers) and machinery services. The poor quality of machinery services,
together with poor seed quality, resulting in excessive seeding rates, are also major constraints to increased
production. Thus, productivity has fallen significantly below potential, particularly in irrigated and drained
areas. With donor help, progress is being made in improving the supply of credit to farmers through the
commercial banking system, although lack of collateral in the form of land titles is a major obstacle and
will continue to be so for some time. The ADP is implementing a program to establish credit unions and
issue land titles. Continued efforts are needed to boost credit provision.
Farm Management Support. Most farmers are inexperienced in managing the land now allotted to
them. Some assistance with management and business advice and establishment of agribusiness centers
has been provided through EU TACIS. However, much more still needs to be done. Research has
languished and needs to be restructured to face the new agriculture and trade environment. The
IDA-funded Agricultural Research, Extension and Training Project (ARET), which was recently made
effective, will to some extent address these needs, particularly in the areas of institutional development, and
practical on-farm management and extension advice.
Market Outlets. With the collapse of the Soviet economic system, Georgia's substantial
agro-industry sector also collapsed. Markets for Georgian exports in the ex-Soviet Union also contracted
sharply. There has been some recovery in trade in wine, tea and hazelnuts, but exports of fresh and
processed fruit and vegetables are extremely difficult because of logistical barriers and stiff world-wide
competition. Privatized processing companies generally lack the know-how and capital to compete -
indeed, even to organize and finance supplies of raw materials. However, the ADP, as well as the newly
established Agro-industrial Bank that is supported by TACIS, are assisting in this field. The internal
market is constrained by extremely low effective demand, so that a large proportion of agricultural produce
is consumed domestically by family, friends and livestock. Further development of markets is dependent on
improvements in the business environment (including removal of transport and trade bottlenecks).
Irrigation and Drainage Sub-Sectors. Rainfall distribution across Georgia ranges between annual
averages of less than 400 mm in eastem and southem parts of the country to over 3,000 mm in the west.
Rainfall in eastem and southem Georgia is variable and generally inadequate to produce good crops.
Agricultural production therefore depends to a great extent on irrigation (full or supplemental, depending
on location) in the east, and drainage in the west. During the Soviet period, infrastructure was built to
irrigate 469,000 ha and drain 163,000 ha, in order to increase and stabilize crop production, particularly
grapes, fruits, and vegetables, required to supply substantial portions of the Soviet Union market, with little
consideration of the economic cost. Pumping was used for 143,000 ha under irrigation and about 35,000
ha under drainage. The rest of the area was irrigated or drained by gravity.
-5-



During the 1990s, civil strife, war, vandalism and theft, as well as problems associated with land
reform, the transition to a market economy, and the loss of markets with traditional trading partners, all
contributed to a decline of the sub-sectors. Lack of maintenance and institutional weakness and disruption
led to severe deterioration of irrigation and drainage infrastructure, including inoperable headworks, broken
canals, blocked pipes, and broken gates. Reduced canal and drain capacities and inefficient water
management were a result.
The irrigation and drainage sub-sectors continue to be in a serious crisis. During 2000, only about
110,000 ha (1999 about 125,000 ha) were supplied with water by DAWE, albeit at very low water use
efficiency and normally less than required by the crops. Additionally, 50,000 ha were irrigated without
contract with DAWE (referred to as unauthorized irrigation), and only about 20,000 ha were drained. The
total, including unauthorized areas, corresponds to about 34 percent of the former irrigable area and 12
percent of the former drained area. Other systems, including almost all pumped schemes were largely out
of order.
The drought of 2000 reduced agricultural production considerably in both rainfed and irrigated
areas, giving rise to food security problems and shortages of seeds for the upcoming season. There was
extremely low rainfall for extended periods since the beginning of the year 2000, varying from 10 to 60
percent of normal during March and April. Out of 246,000 ha planted with cereals, 183,000 ha (74
percent) were affected by drought conditions. There was almost no production on about 140,000 ha of this
area. Rainfall continued to be below normal during the summer of 2000, almost completely destroying
sunflower and maize crops, and drying up vineyards. The major rivers did flow during the drought,
although the flows were much below normal and would not have been sufficient to satisfy full water
requirements for all irrigated areas, but deficit irrigation on large areas would have been possible. The
effect of the drought may have been worst in the irrigation schemes. They are located in the river valley
bottoms, which are generally drier than the foothills, which is where most of the rainfed farming is carried
out. During the drought, a rapid appraisal was carried out by Save the Children in Kakheti Region to
identify the effects of the drought on the rural population. Among the main expressed needs were the
provision of emergency inputs and the rehabilitation of irrigation systems.
Recognizing the need for new local institutions to distribute water to the large number of new
private irrigators, DAWE, from 1996 onwards, established around 200 Amelioration Service Cooperatives
(ASC) on about 200,000 ha. These ASCs generally covered the area of the former kolkhozes and
sovkhozes (300 ha to over 5,000 ha per former farm) and were made responsible for O&M of the irrigation
distribution or drainage infrastructure within the boundaries of the former farms, i.e. secondary and lower
order irrigation and drainage systems. The ASCs entered into water contracts with DAWE and were
responsible for collection of water charges from water users (generally about GEL 7/1,000 m' to cover
DAWE's water charge of GEL 4/1,000 m plus GEL 3/1,000 m' for the ASC). Unfortunately, most ASCs
failed to function properly. There was virtually no support and training provided for these Cooperatives,
while farmers were not adequately made aware of the need and functions of ASCs. In addition,
membership charges were high, and only a few farmers joined their cooperative, which then became a
close-knit water-service organization, with little participation of farmers or financial transparency. The
ASCs have achieved very little or nothing in terms of O&M, which has led to further deterioration of
irrigation and drainage systems and reduction of irrigable and drained areas.
Operation and maintenance of the main systems is currently the responsibility of DAWE. DAWE
also is the owner of about 60 percent of the secondary systems, but little is done to maintain these systems.
- 6 -



The ownership of the remainder of the secondary networks has been passed to Village Councils, which are
theoretically responsible for maintenance of systems where ASCs have failed. Neither DAWE nor the
Village Councils have been able to raise the funds necessary to ensure adequate O&M. DAWE has
obtained budgetary subventions from the EU annually since 1997, including GEL 2.5 M (US $1.3 M) in
2000 together with GEL 1.6 M (US $0.8 M) from GOG. However, last year only a fraction of the amount
committed by EU has actually been used, because GOG has not secured a sufficient flow of funds to obtain
reimbursement. DAWE's regional sub-units continue to do what they can to maintain service, despite lack
of funds. In the process DAWE has, since 1996, accumulated payment obligations of GEL 2.2 M for
goods and services provided. Village Councils are ill-equipped, have many other obligations, and perceive
inadequate benefit to conduct proper O&M.
Even if fully collected, the water charges of GEL 4 per 1,000 m for irrigation and GEL 2 per ha
for drainage, payable to DAWE, will only meet about 30 percent of the real cost of properly operating and
maintaining the systems under DAWE's management. This situation was worsened by the fact that during
the last three years, water users only paid about 40 percent of the water charges.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The major challenges facing the irrigation and drainage sub-sectors are to: (i) increase the
participation of farmers in scheme management and O&M; (ii) arrest the decline in areas served by
irrigation and drainage infrastructure and improve the technical performance of the schemes; and (iii)
improve cost recovery to make schemes sustainable. The project will overcome these challenges through
the establishment of, and support to, farmer-run Amelioration Associations (AAs), which will assume
responsibility for development, operation, and maintenance of irrigation and drainage networks within their
service territories. Repair and rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage infrastructure will also take place,
and cost recovery for O&M will be improved.
A number of strategic choices for dealing with the issues identified for the irrigation and drainage
sub-sectors were considered during project preparation, including:
To support the existing Amelioration Service Cooperatives, or attempt to build more
participatory Amelioration Associations. Eliciting the participation of the great majority of farmers in
contributing to the operation, maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement of secondary and tertiary
networks is seen as the key in arresting the decline in the sub-sectors. The project also seeks to establish a
firm institutional basis for the long-term development of the sector. The existing ASCs demonstrably failed
to provide the basis for achieving this. It was felt that their existing institutional set-up and established
practices will greatly jeopardize the effective mobilization of farmers and efficient utilization of project
investment funds. GOG has agreed that a new form of democratically formed Association is required in
which farmers feel represented, and is implementing legislation for the introduction of AAs (see next
paragraph).
Legalform and status of Amelioration Associations. If AAs are to succeed in the medium and
long term, they must be endowed with the status of legal entities, even though, in Georgia, this confers
some administrative and tax burdens. Under the current Law on Amelioration, AAs have been established
as private, non-profit-making entities. Although different institutional models function intemationally, the
most consistently successful are those which are officially constituted as Legal Bodies of Public Right or
Legal Bodies under Public Law. This model ensures full public accountability, which is appropriate for
bodies operating in the public interest. DAWE officials have visited a number of such bodies abroad and
GOG has now agreed that AAs in Georgia should function as Legal Bodies under Public Law. Draft
- 7 -



amendments to the Law on Amelioration have been prepared and await enactment. This is a condition of
disbursement for all works, including rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage infrastructure under both
DAWE and AA management. The proposed amendments cover the status of AAs and state that the
infrastructure within the territory of an AA will be transferred to AAs initially on a long-term usufruct
basis, thus maintaining the present ownership of the infrastructure either with DAWE or Village Councils.
Although the Public Law allows AAs to apply for ownership of the infrastructure, this will not pursued
until AAs have shown capability to adequately manage irrigation and drainage infrastructure. MOF has
clarified the status of property tax on irrigation and drainage infrastructure that has been transferred to
AAs under usufruct. According to Georgian legislation, property tax applies to irrigation and drainage
infrastructure, but it has been agreed - through an effectiveness condition - that Government will take steps
to ensure that AAs are not subject to this tax for this infrastructure (see Section C.2 for further details).
Future legal status of DA WE regional sub-units. Consideration was given to the option of
completely privatizing irrigation and drainage services, and converting DAWE into a private company.
Experiences within the region with such approaches have not proved successful for a variety of reasons (for
more detail see also Section D - Project Rationale, part 1). Therefore, this approach was not pursued. A
further alternative considered was converting DAWE sub-units into managerial offices under the
supervision of enlarged or federated AAs. This will be a major institutional change and is considered too
demanding for the first-phase of the program. However, Government is prepared to transfer entire smaller
schemes to AAs if their performance proves satisfactory, and foresees federation of AAs within individual
schemes in the medium term.
Decision on whether to include pumped irrigation/drainage or only gravity systems, or a
mixture, as dictated by economic and technical criteria. A mixture of schemes has been chosen to allow
inclusion of schemes where modest investments can restore irrigation or drainage in areas which have fallen
out of service, or where specialized agriculture will especially be economically productive.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
Government is concerned that, without urgent investments and institutional changes, the irrigation
and drainage sub-sectors are at the verge of collapse. It is interested to create a legal and institutional
environment in which farmers can fully benefit from this important input into agricultural production.
Farmers will have to be provided with the correct support and incentives to manage and maintain
lower-order infrastructure on a sustainable basis, while Government shall provide a cost-effective and
efficient service to the water users. The Government's strategy for the sub-sectors is described in a letter of
Development Policy from the Minister of Agriculture and Food, dated May 17, 2001 (attached in Annex
12).
The APC program aims over a period of 12 years to rehabilitate and maintain, for the benefit of
sustained agriculture, irrigation and drainage networks commanding 255,000 ha by: (i) establishing about
500 AAs through which farmers will participate in rehabilitation and O&M of irrigation or drainage
systems covering 255,000 ha; and (ii) financing rehabilitation of selected higher-order infrastructure
covering approximately 125,000 ha (91,000 ha irrigation and 34,000 ha drainage; see table below - the
different activities and nomenclature are described in Section C). The program will also provide limited
funds to support targeted repair of main systems under the management of DAWE, particularly to keep
systems operative until program activities will start during later years. Necessary funds will also be
provided for dam safety, environmental safeguards, technical assistance (TA), training and project
management.
-8-



The first phase of the program will start all of the above-mentioned activities, but will place
particular focus on setting up the institutional arrangements for support to water users and AAs, including
the development of training programs. The second and third phase of the program will build on lessons
learned from the first phase and will expand the coverage of the activities. The sustainability of the
sub-sectors will be increased gradually during the three phases, so that by the end of the program, users
will be fully responsible for the management and financing of most of the irrigation and drainage
infrastructure to be covered under this program. This target is reflected in the triggers to move to
subsequent phases (see below).
Activity               First Phase    Second Phase    Third Phase       Total
5 years        4 years         3 years        12 years
1. Rehabilitation Program
(hectares)
a) Irrigation (including                16,000         36,000          39,000         91,000
establishment of and financial
assistance to AAs)
b) Drainage (including                  4,000          16,000          14,000         34,000
establishment of and financial
assistance to AAs)
40,000        (50,000)       (40,000)         40,000
2. National AA Program
(hectares)
3. AA Establishment Program            50,000          40,000                         90,000
(hectares)
TOTAL per Phase                       110,000          92,000          53,000        255,000
TOTAL (accumulative)                  110,000         202,000        255,000         255,000
Notes:
- Figures in parentheses indicate areas moving from AA Establishment Program to National AA Program and are
not included in cumulative totals except in the first phase.
- It is possible that AAs that have benefited from the National Program might receive assistance under the
Rehabilitation Program during a subsequent phase. If this turns out to be the case, the total area to be covered
under the APC will reduce. Any adjustments to the total area covered under the APC will be made during
preparation of subsequent phases.
- Figures have been rounded.
The main triggers for the second and third phases of the APC are as follows.
Triggers to go to second phase of APC
* Completion of restructuring plan for DAWE, which will be implemented during the second
phase.
-9-



*   Water charges for MAF/DAWE will be increased by at least 1.5 times the current rate of GEL
4 per 1,000 m, in real terms, except for schemes that have benefited from full rehabilitation.
Water charges for these schemes will be set at the rate approaching the full rate necessary to
provide adequate O&M, to be introduced gradually over a four-year period after rehabilitation.
Determination of appropriate level of water charges will be done with the full participation of
the AAs active in these schemes;
*   DAWE (or any successor entity) collection rates for water supply or drainage services will
increase to at least 70 percent of contracted deliveries;
*   DAWE (or any successor entity) will achieve 70 percent on-time delivery of water to clients in
schemes covered by both the Rehabilitation and the National Programs, who are current in
their payments;
*   Consistent government commitment to providing at least minimum acceptable levels of O&M
financing during phase 1, based on an annual O&M plan prepared by MAF, and agreed with
Ministry of Finance;
*   Establishment of a regulatory agency for AAs within MAF;
3   The operations of at least 50 percent of the AAs established under both the Rehabilitation and
National Programs, which have been in operation for at least one year, shall be rated as
satisfactory according to the performance plan agreed with the Projects Coordination Center
(PCC) and the Association, in terms of water delivery to users, collection of fees, maintenance
of infrastructure, financial management, and governance;
-   Evidence, based on economic analysis, that there are sufficient number of priority schemes for
the second phase to justify the project. Priority schemes selected for the second phase will
need to have rates of return higher than the cost of capital, based on the prevailing economic
climate in Georgia at the time;
-   Satisfactory progress on completion of phase 1 works; and
3   At the time of the Mid-Term Review, the existing Law on Amelioration will be reviewed to
determine its completeness, and ensure that it satisfies all needs of AAs in Georgia. In
addition, tax and ownership issues related to AAs will be reviewed. If it is determined that
revised legislation is required, consideration by the parliament of said legislation will be a
trigger for the second phase.
Triggers to go to third phase of APC (subject to discussions during negotiations for the second phase of the
APC)
*   Satisfactory restructuring of DAWE, according to the plan agreed in first phase;
*   20 percent of the AAs developed under the project have enlarged or federated, to manage
higher order infrastructure;
*   Water charges for MAF/DAWE will be increased by at least 1.5 times the rate at the end of
- 10-



phase 1, in real terms, except for schemes that have benefited from full rehabilitation. Water
charges for these schemes will be set at the rate approaching the full rate necessary to provide
adequate O&M, to be introduced gradually over a four-year period after rehabilitation.
Determination of appropriate level of water charges will be done with the full participation of
the AAs active in these schemes;
*   DAWE (or any successor entity) collection rates for water supply or drainage services will
increase to 80 percent of contracted deliveries;
*   DAWE (or any successor entity) will achieve 80 percent on-time delivery of water to clients in
schemes covered by both the Rehabilitation and the National Programs, who are current in
their payments;
*  Consistent government commitment to providing at least minimum acceptable levels of O&M
financing during phase 2, based on an annual O&M plan prepared by MAF, and agreed with
Ministry of Finance;
*  The operations of at least 65 percent of the AAs established under both the Full Rehabilitation
and National Programs, which have been in operation for at least one year, shall be rated as
satisfactory according to the performance plan agreed with the PCC and the Association, in
termns of water delivery to users, collection of fees, maintenance of infrastructure, financial
management, and governance;
*  Evidence, based on economic analysis, that there are sufficient number of priority schemes for
the third phase to justify the project. Priority schemes selected for the third phase will need to
have rates of return higher than the cost of capital, based on the prevailing economic climate in
Georgia at the time; and
-   Satisfactory progress on completion of phase 2 works.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project has two primary activities: (i) rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage infrastructure;
and (ii) establishment of, and support to, Amelioration Associations (AAs). There will be a number of
different programs to be implemented, namely a Rehabilitation Program, a National AA Program and an
AA Establishment Program. The core of the project for each of these programs will be to generate the
participation of farmers, through AAs, in rehabilitating and operating and maintaining irrigation and
drainage schemes. The formation of AAs, established in accordance with the provisions of the revised Law
on Amelioration, with a minimum of 51 percent farmers' participation and representing at least 51 percent
of the land area, will be a pre-requisite for any area to enter the project. Non-members will have secondary
rights to water and will need to contract water with the respective AA.
AAs and their members will be supported with technical advice from the project's engineering,
irrigation, drainage and agronomy advisers as well as with training in organization, management,
accounting, and other subjects. Support for crop production will also be provided from ARET's research
and extension component, which will be secured through liaison within the Projects Coordination Center
- 11 -



which has been established within MAF for the implementation of all IDA projects in the agricultural
sector.
Under the Rehabilitation Program, covering about 20,000 ha, the project will rehabilitate both
primary and the larger secondary systems, in order to bring this infrastructure back to fully operational
condition. In addition, this Program will provide assistance for the establishment and training of AAs, and
will provide US $105 per ha seed money in grant financing for the rehabilitation, improvement and initial
O&M of the canals and drains in AA service areas. During project preparation, meetings have been held
with farmers within the command areas of the Rehabilitation Program, and there is commitment from most
farmers to establish AAs.
A National AA Program, covering an area of about 40,000 ha, will provide similar establishment
and training support and US $1 05/ha grant financing to AAs for activities within their service territories.
The AAs will be selected on merit and economic grounds (see part 4 below for criteria to be used). Under
this Program there will be no comprehensive rehabilitation of higher order infrastructure, as it is assumed
that there is adequately assured water supply or drainage or that systems can be made fully functional
through selective, low-cost targeted rehabilitation, to be provided under Sub-component IC (below).
Seed money is intended to ensure that water delivery to all farmers' fields is improved, and as
much as possible, assured. Detailed plans for application of the seed money of each AA in the most
cost-effective manner will be drawn up in advance in the form of a Development Plan. For AAs to qualify
for seed money, their members will be required to contribute US $20/ha equivalent in-kind or cash for
works identified in the Development Plans. The contribution will be made in stages according to an
implementation plan that is also described in the Development Plan. AAs may apply up to a maximum of
20 percent of the entire seed money for approved operational expenses (such as tools, fuel, bicycles, office
and operational expenditures, but not salaries of either the Chairman and Board of Directors of the AA).
An AA Establishment Program will only provide establishment and training support on a demand
basis to AAs on an estimated area of about 50,000 ha. These AAs will receive no financing for
rehabilitation and O&M under the first phase, but will earn status as "priority AAs" for the National AA
Program to be implemented during the second phase of the APC.
Component 1: Irrigation and Drainaye Systems Rehabilitation and Maintenance
*    Sub-component 1A: Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure (US $11.8 million)
The Rehabilitation Program will finance comprehensive rehabilitation and reconstruction of three
main irrigation systems that are in a critical condition. The deteriorated condition of these systems
threatens the capacity for timely delivery of adequate water to the boundaries of the AA areas, which is of
course the first priority in sustaining irrigation services. Without this rehabilitation or reconstruction of
infrastructure, there will be little scope for AAs to develop into sustainable organizations, as water delivery
cannot be guaranteed. The project will rehabilitate main water supply systems, including headworks,
conveyance and distribution canals, a conveyance tunnel, and hydraulic structures. These systems supply
large irrigation areas, but under this project it is estimated that AAs will benefit with seed money on about
16,300 ha only. Scheme rehabilitation details can be found in Annex 2. First year engineering designs
have been completed. All other engineering designs and supervision for the major works will be prepared
by consultants to be hired by the Irrigation and Drainage Project Implementation Unit (IDPIU).
- 12 -



*   Sub-component IB: Rehabilitation of Drainage Infrastructure (US $2.8 million)
The project will provide funds in the amount of approximately US $2.8 million for rehabilitation
and repair of two drainage schemes, covering about 3,700 ha. The condition of these systems is such that
the ability to drain water away from AA areas is at risk. One scheme is drained by gravity and the other
scheme needs pumping from 600 ha, out of a total of 1,700 ha. Rehabilitation works include cleaning of
main and secondary collector drains, limited repairs to river embankments and service roads, and the
replacement of a total of three drainage pumps of 45 kW units. Scheme rehabilitation details can be found
in Annex 2. The project will provide technical assistance for the design and supervision of the works.
*   Sub-component 1C: Targeted Rehabilitation of Infrastructure for National AA Program (US $2.4
million)
In order to ensure irrigation supply to schemes selected for the National AA Program, funds will be
made available for urgent and crucial repairs of main systems, outside the areas under the management of
AAs. This will reduce the rate of decline of irrigable area and allow seed money allocated under the
National Program to achieve greater impact. To qualify for financing under this sub-component, works
will have to demonstrably increase or guarantee water supply at moderate cost. Works will be selected in
the course of identification of AAs to be assisted under the National AA Program. The project will also
finance the services for the design and supervision of these works.
Component 2: AA Development and Strenathenin2 for Improved Irrilation and Drainage
Manaeement
* Sub-component 2A: Support for AAs in the Rehabilitation Program and the National Program
(US $8.8 million)
The project will finance rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation and drainage infrastructure in
AA service territories and equipment, and operation and maintenance costs to AAs in about 20,000 ha
under the Rehabilitation Program and 40,000 ha under the National Program. This will be done in
accordance with Development Plans to be prepared by each AA. A Development Plan will describe: (i) the
details of the rehabilitation and O&M activities (defined as the AA Sub-project); (ii) the bill of quantities
and cost estimates; (iii) the proposed imnplementation stages of the Sub-project; and (iv) the proposed AA
contribution to the implementation of the Sub-project.
AAs will hire engineers to provide support for the development of the plans, and design and
supervision of works. Upon approval by the IDPIU of the Development Plan, the project will provide a
total of US $ 105/ha seed money to AAs, to be disbursed in a number of stages, as determined in the
Development Plan. AAs have to contribute a total of US $20/ha in-kind or cash. At least 80 percent of the
seed money will be granted for rehabilitation, while the remainder may be used by AAs for financing of
Association start-up needs, such as minor office items, tools for the field operators and minor operational
expenditures (see also part 4 "Institutional and Implementation Arrangements" in this Section). Meetings
with AAs under the Rehabilitation Program have already taken place, and there has been great interest on
the part of farmers to join AAs. Selection of areas for inclusion under the National Program will be
according to criteria listed in Part 4 below. An evaluation group within the IDPIU will be established to
evaluate requests. AAs that will be rejected for inclusion under this sub-component will still be able to
benefit from support and training under the Establishment Program, and may again be considered for phase
two of the APC.
- 13-



Besides design and supervision support, the project will also provide substantial organizational
support and training to AAs to develop them into sustainable Associations. IDPIU will arrange for
necessary advice during establishment, and will provide training of AAs in different managerial and
financial topics, aided by short-term training consultants. To provide continuing support after
establishment and rehabilitation, engineers and agronomists will be hired to provide advice on irrigation and
drainage practices, O&M practices and proper scheme management. Each of these consultants will cover
groups of AAs with a total command area of about 4,000 ha.
*   Sub-component 2B: AA Establishment Program (US $566,000)
The project will provide financing for the establishment of AAs covering approximately 50,000 ha.
This component will provide organizational and establishment support, and training to develop them into
sustainable Associations. These AAs will also benefit from assistance in engineering, to determine O&M
needs, and extension advice in irrigation and drainage practices. The important difference between this and
the National AA Program above is that AAs in the Establishment program will not receive the US S 105/ha
seed money.
*   Sub-component 2C: Support for DAWE (US $259,000)
The Project will provide support to regional DAWE sub-units in charge of management of
infrastructure that has been covered under the Rehabilitation Program. Office equipment and vehicles will
be procured, to ensure that these regional offices have the capacity to provide the necessary level of
construction supervision support to rehabilitation activities and, afterwards, to the management of the
rehabilitated systems. The project will also finance an institutional study of DAWE, to be carried out
before mnid-term review, to make medium- and long-term recommendations for reorganization and
streamlining of its structure and function.
-   Sub-component 2D: Dam Safety Action Program (US $255,000)
The first phase of the APC does not include rehabilitation of any irrigation area under the direct
supply from large reservoirs. This permits postponement of the required dam safety measures to the next
phases. An initial examination of four major dams in the country did not reveal major dam safety issues.
However, it was agreed that an operation of such length as a 12-year APC should move beyond compliance
and progressively address dam safety in a pro-active manner. Therefore, the project will provide funds to
commence the implementation of a Dam Safety Action Program, which will be comprised largely of
technical assistance. The focus of the first phase will be on surveys, studies and the preparation of dam
examination reports for Algeti, Sioni, Tbilisi, and Zonkari dams. The dam examination reports will make
recommendations on any needed reconstruction and repairs, including necessary new hardware (i.e.
telecommunications and warning systems, instrumentation, etc.), to guarantee or improve the safety
condition of these dams. This will lead to detailed designs and preparation of bidding documents for
carrying out the rehabilitation works, which are expected to be included in the second phase of the APC.
*   Sub-component 2E: Environmental Management (US $136,000)
The project will finance environmental monitoring of indicators that have been identified during the
Environmental Assessment (EA). Collection of environmental data (soil and water) for measuring project
environmental impacts will be done by a consulting firm, to be hired by the IDPIU. The IDPIU will be
responsible for monitoring and evaluating the results of the work of the consulting firm, to ensure that the
mitigation measures in the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) are sufficient to ensure environmental
- 14 -



sustainability of the project.
* Sub-component 2F: Training and Study Tours (US $740,000)
Experience from around the world has clearly demonstrated that provision of adequate training is
critical to the long-term sustainability of AAs. Therefore, the project includes substantial amounts of
training, in areas such as financial management and accounting, conflict resolution, govemance, asset
management, and O&M planning. This training will first of all be delivered by consultants to the IDPIU
staff who will be in charge of AA formation, and also to AA facilitators, engineers and farm advisors. This
trained cadre will then be responsible for AA training. Further, a number of study tours are planned,
primarily to countries close to Georgia which have successful AA operations (i.e. Turkey, Kyrgyz
Republic). This sub-component will also provide training to DAWE staff through IDPIU's Institutional
Management Team and Engineering Management Team, supported by short-term consultants, as needed.
Such training will include improved planning of management and O&M, quality control of repair and
maintenance of infrastructure, etc.
Component 3: Proiect Management (US $3.9 million)
The Project will strengthen the existing PCC and IDPIU to be able to carry out project
coordination and day-to-day project management. It will finance all staff costs (including technical
assistance consultants to assist IDPIU staff in the implementation of the project, and to prepare the second
phase of the APC, as well as auditors), goods and equipment, operational costs, and employer contribution
to social fund payments.
Component 4: Proiect Preparation Facility (US $1.2 million)
The credit for this project will re-finance a Project Preparation Facility in the amount of US $1.2
million, which funded preparation of both this project and ARET, which was originally part of this project
(then called ADP H). ARET was split off to reduce complexity and simplify implementation. The PPF
paid for a number of activities, including consultants, hardware and software, vehicles, training, pilot
competitive grants (ARET), and pilot AA formation (IDCDP). This project is refinancing the PPF,
because it was administratively unworkable to split it during preparation. Canceling the PPF at ARET
effectiveness (to allow ARET to refinance it) would have meant that the remaining balance would not be
available to the IDCDP.
- 15-



In summary, the individual components are as follows:
Indicative             Bank-      %/ Of
Component                   Sector        costs      % of    financing   Banik-
:_______________________              (US$M )   Total       US$M    financing
Component 1: Irrigation and Drainage   Irrigation &    17.00      51.8      13.60      50.4
Systems Rehabilitation and         Drainage
Maintenance
Component 2: AA Development and    Irrigation &        10.70      32.6       8.70      32.2
Strengthening for Improved Irrigation    Drainage
and Drainage Management
Component 3: Project Management                         3.90      11.9       3.50      13.0
Component 4: Project Preparation                        1.20       3.7       1.20       4.4
Facility
Total Project Costs                  32.80      100.0     27.00      100.0
Front-end fee                    0.00        0.0      0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required                    32.80      100.0     27.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Institutional arrangements for the delivery of irrigation water to farms and drainage of low-lying
lands have remained ineffective since the abandonment of the kolkhoz and sovkhoz systems. The
Government has taken steps to introduce improved institutional arrangements, including setting up ASCs
for delivery of water to farmers. However, as indicated in the foregoing, this arrangement suffered from a
number of shortcomings, particularly the tendency for concentration of control among a few individuals
within each ASC, and the lack of representation by the majority of water users.
With assistance from IDA, the Government has initiated additional reform policies during the last
few years, and in 2000 it amended the Law on Amelioration to foster greater participation by farmers in the
future operation and management of their irrigation networks. Farmers are now entitled to organize
themselves into non-profit Amelioration Associations (AAs), provided that 51 percent of farmers in the
service territory of an AA, which normally coincides with a hydraulic unit, become members and represent
at least 51 percent of the land area within the AA territory. Although the amended Law on Amelioration
has improved the institutional framework, it unfortunately established AAs under Private Law. This has a
number of drawbacks and is seldom found within a sector where a public resource (water) is used to the
economic benefit of all. IDA has recommended that the current law be revised further to allow AAs to be
formed as legal bodies under Public Law, along the lines of a 'municipality' (i.e. they are headed by
democratically elected representatives, provide certain services within their boundaries, and collect
contributions from beneficiaries for operation and management). Government agreed with this and
necessary draft amendments have been made. Amendments to allow transfer of the irrigation and drainage
systems within the service territories of AAs under long-term usufruct have been made as well. The
amendments will soon be presented to Parliament and their passing is a disbursement condition for the
works under Component I and the implementation of the Development Plans under sub-component 2A.
- 16 -



Transfer of irrigation and drainage infrastructure under usufruct will be made without transfer fee,
but according to current legislation a one percent property tax on this infrastructure applies. This charge
on newly established AAs could result in a substantial additional financial burden. Govemment agreed that
this financial burden would be difficult for the new AAs to bear, and will take necessary steps to ensure
that AAs are not subject to property tax payments for irrigation and drainage infrastructure that has been
transferred to AAs under usufruct. Confirmation that AAs will not be subject to this property tax is a
condition of project effectiveness.
The Public Law allows transfer of ownership of infrastructure, but before this is considered, the
Government wants to monitor the performance of AAs. This will be part of a detailed review of the
applicability of the Law on Amelioration, which will be made by March 31, 2004. At that time, further
amendments could be made to the Law, which could include the right of full ownership by AAs of
irrigation and drainage infrastructure.
The project will support the proper setting and collection of water charges to allow satisfactory
O&M of both the infrastructure within the AA territory and the main system managed by DAWE. IDPfU
will organize awareness seminars for AAs about the importance of proper funding of O&M and the setting
of charges in a transparent way between DAWE as provider of a service and the AAs as clients. AAs will
be responsible for contracting and paying for water delivery from DAWE, and for setting water charges to
their members, which will cover both these charges and the cost of adequate O&M of their own networks.
Non-members within the service territory of an AA will have to contract water with AAs. Water fees will
be increased gradually.
AAs in drainage areas will similarly be required to set fees which will cover both charges to
DAWE and the cost of maintaining the drainage networks that are managed by AAs. In drainage areas,
there is inherently less incentive for famners to participate in AAs. However, Govermment's policy - based
on the Land Law - foresees administrative penalties for land owners or land leasers if their land is not
maintained in good condition, which includes drainage. Therefore, non-members will also be obliged to
pay charges for O&M of the drainage networks. In the future, to cover full O&M costs, drainage charges
could be distributed more widely among the communities that are benefiting from drainage.
An institutional study of DAWE, to include proposals for future development, will be conducted
before the mid-term review mission for the project. The recommendations of the study will be implemented
during subsequent stages of the APC.
The project will also assist the Govemment to honor its commitments to protect the environment
through adopting measures that will mitigate salinity development, intemal inundation of agricultural lands,
build-up of higher nutrition and pesticides levels in downstream waterways, and protection of national
parks along the Black Sea coast.
- 17 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The project will directly increase the incomes and food security of about 80,000 farmn families
representing about 400,000 persons, by improving irrigation and drainage on about 1 1 0,000 ha, distributed
throughout Georgia. The project will increase the quantity and reliability of irrigation water delivery to
AAs and their members and ensure adequate drainage of farmers' fields. The interventions will generate
employment by rehabilitating infrastructure, reclaiming and expanding operation of irrigation and drainage
areas, by increasing cropping intensities and increasing the portion of labor-intensive high-value crops in
the crop rotation. The project will also reduce the need for Government emergency expenditures during
times of drought, such as occurred in 2000.
Although government funding for the sub-sectors has to increase initially to allow adequate O&M
of the rehabilitated infrastructure, the project is expected to reduce the requirement for government
expenditures on irrigation and drainage over time, thus releasing budgetary funds for other critical public
expenditures. The existing subsidies for O&M of the main infrastructure - including secondary canals
under ownership with DAWE and Village Councils - currently being financed from the state budget (with
support of the EU), will be reduced by increasing water charges and collection rates. This will be achieved
mainly by better organization of farmers in AAs, and providing funds for rehabilitation of infrastructure.
During the first phase of the APC it is not expected that there will be major transfers of higher order
infrastructure to AAs, except maybe for smaller amelioration schemes, which could eventually be
transferred to AAs in their entirety, which will then terminate direct public support for such schemes.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Oversight. A PCC Advisory Board has been established according to Presidential Decree
No. 149, dated April 23, 2001, as a consultative body to provide cross-sectoral advice to the project. This
Board will meet regularly, with a composition that not only includes Government ministries and agencies,
but also other parties, such as Academy of Sciences and NGOs.
Implementing Agency. The Project will be implemented under the aegis of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food. For this purpose an Irrigation and Drainage Project Implementation Unit has been
established under the PCC. This PCC was established by joint order of MAF and MOF as a legal entity
under Public Law according to Presidential Decree Number 149. The PCC is the successor of a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) that was originally set up for the ADP, but which also provided financial
management services during the preparation of the project. The PCC will be responsible for overall project
coordination and overall management of project implementation, in particular the core functions of
financial management and procurement. It will not only do this for this project, but also for other
IDA-funded agricultural projects, thus achieving consistency in core services. The PCC will be headed by
a Director, who will have as main tasks the coordination between the various projects, management of the
core group and liaison with and reporting to Government. Each of the IDA projects will have its own
implementation unit within PCC for the day-to-day activities, and with responsibility for the immediate
outputs of each specific project.
IDPIU is already fully staffed with about 15 full-time staff. Until now it has been functioning for
the preparation of the project as a Project Implementation Center (PIC), which was a legal body under
Public Law. It has a Project Manager, who is supported by technical (engineering, institutional) and
support (secretaries, translators, drivers) staff for the day-to-day management of project activities,
including institutional, technical, monitoring and evaluation, and reporting. The Project Manager will have
overall responsibility for project implementation and will report to the Director of the PCC who, in turn,
- 18 -



will report to the Minister of Agriculture and Food.
The Technical Manager of the IDPIU will directly supervise the work of an Engineering Team.
The Engineering Team will be responsible for all engineering matters, whether in AAs' territories or in main
systems. The Team comprises a design and an implementation/supervision section, the latter with
responsibility for overall quality control of the executed work.
The Institutional Manager of the IDPIU will supervise an Institutional Management Team, which
will have as its main task the establishment of AAs throughout Georgia - both in irrigated and drained
areas - including their registration, development of individual charters, financial management related to
seed money provision and AAs' contributions, and training. The team will be supported by a number of
field-based consultants to work on a long-term basis with AAs, including up to ten irrigation advisors, three
drainage advisors, and up to ten agronomy advisors.
IDPIU will have one full-time Environmental Specialist, who will be responsible for monitoring
and evaluating environmental indicators and ensuring that the mitigation measures in the EMP are
sufficient to ensure environmental sustainability of the project. This specialist will also have responsibility
for preparing reports summarizing environmental monitoring results. The Ministry of Environment (MOE)
will 'second' up to three employees to the IDPIU to ensure full coordination and compliance of project
activities with national environmental policies and regulations. These specialists will remain on the payroll
of MOE.
DAWE will be closely involved in project activities, through its field offices and staff. They will
collaborate with IDPIU staff to initiate first contacts with farmers. It will also assist with engineering,
supervisory and organizational know-how, and make its regional offices available for meetings.
Implementation Arrangements for Rehabilitation Program Activities. Designs have been
prepared by consultants to IDPIU for the first year of construction under the Rehabilitation Program in
four locations: Tashiskari (tunnel repair and irrigation rehabilitation in 1,003 ha); Kvemo Alazani
(headworks rehabilitation and irrigation rehabilitation in 1, 1 10 ha); Rioni Khobi (main drain and collectors
for 600 ha); and Rioni Choloki (main drain and collectors for 630 ha). These schemes can be tendered and
awarded soon, so that works can start almost immediately after Credit effectiveness. IDPIU will be
responsible for contract management. It will hire engineering firms for project supervision and quality
control. Implementation of the works for the following four years will be made after effectiveness. Again,
engineering firms will be hired for the preparation of designs and construction supervision.
Implementation Arrangementsfor AA Program Activities. The IDPIU will assist AAs to establish
themselves by inviting farmers to participate in introductory meetings in which the organizational and legal
requirements of AAs will be explained. To the extent possible, farmers will be encouraged to establish
AAs on the basis of hydraulic units. The IDPIU will repeat meetings with farmers in each AA, as needed,
to assist them through the voting and registration stages. AAs will also be assisted with the drafting of
their Charter, based on a model charter (enclosed in the PIP). The Charter covers such aspects as the level
of water charges and how to determine these, organization of election of representatives, relations with
non-members, obligations and rights of members, etc. After establishment, AAs have to prepare
Development Plans, which provide the details of the activities for which they will request seed money. AAs
will contract an engineer of their own choice (to be selected from a long-list that is provided by IDPIU) to
assist an AA in the preparation of the Plan and draw up designs for rehabilitation, in a way that makes
cost-effective use of the project's seed money and the AA's own resources. The Plan will comprise a
number of distinct phases, each of which is a complete activity, such as the rehabilitation of a distribution
- 19-



canal, structures, or cleaning of field canals or drains, that will lead to improvement in the operation and
management of the networks. As much as possible, it will be ensured that each of these stages is
self-standing, and will accrue benefits to the scheme, even if for some reason future stages of the Plan are
not implemented.
The use of seed money will be managed by the communities, under the overall supervision of
IDPIU staff. The use of funds will be the same for the Rehabilitation and National Programs. The IDPIU
has already begun working with AAs under the Rehabilitation Program, because they had to ensure that
farmers within these systems are aware of the project and have shown commitment to forming AAs, before
committing project funds for rehabilitation of the major works serving these AA areas. The National
Program will be announced publicly and applications from farmers' groups will be invited. The IDPIU's
Institutional Management Team will evaluate the applications for technical, economic and institutional
viability. Selection criteria will include: (i) access to adequate water supply or drainage services; (ii)
rehabilitation costs to allow proper management of systems by AAs in the range of US $105 per ha, having
maximum potential impact; (iii) commitment of farmers in line with the requirement of the Law on
Amelioration; and (iv) percentage of water fees paid during the last irrigation season is at least 50 percent
of contracted deliveries. Qualifying AAs will be established on a 'first-come, first-served' basis, after
which fanners' meeting(s) will be conducted and the potential territory of an AA surveyed.
AAs will be responsible for the selection of their activities. They will be accountable and will be
responsible for the procurement on the basis of Community Participation procedures. They will also be
responsible for the technical output and financial management. Eighty percent of the cost for the
rehabilitation and O&M activities will be financed from the Credit. AAs will contribute US $20 per ha in
cash or kind (16 percent of the total cost per ha of the Plan), while Government will pay 5 percent to cover
the VAT. It is envisaged that AA contributions will not always add up to 16 percent of the cost of each
stage in the Development Plan, but it will be carefully checked that the total contribution will add up to US
$20 per ha. It is expected that many of the AA activities will be in-kind through labor. IDPIU will keep an
updated list with unit costs for activities that are typically canried out by AAs, such as cutting trees,
clearing land and cleaning canals. All seed money will be channeled in a controlled manner through AA
accounts (120-days second generation special accounts), with decreasing assistance and oversight from
IDPIU over time. Supervision of the AA activities will be provided on a continuing basis by a team of
qualified AA members and their design and supervision engineer. Post-review of each stage of the works
will be made by the AA engineer and IDPIU engineer. A post-review document, including a Completion
Certificate, will be prepared and signed by the assigned AA representative, the AA engineer and an IDPIU
engineer. The next stage of works will be funded only after previous work has been completed
satisfactorily, including the agreed AA contribution. To avoid collusion, all expenditures will need to be
cleared by the Board of Directors of an AA. All expenditures will need to be signed by the Chairman and
the AA accountant. The accounting books will be open for all AA members for inspection. Each AA will
be subject to auditing by an audit committee that will be established within each AA and also by
independent annual audits.
Local shopping will be the general procurement method applied for AA-managed activities. In
general, three suppliers are invited to provide estimates for goods or works and strict eligibility criteria will
be followed. Purchases will be based on quality of goods, availability and price. Local shopping will also
be used for hiring of skilled labor such as foremen, bricklayers, welders, or small contractors. Where
possible, three quotations will be obtained for the selection of labor or a contractor.
Seed money up to 20 percent of the total amount estimated in the Development Plans can be used
by AAs for O&M related activities, including for such items as tools, power cables, initial payments of
- 20 -



operations, etc. These funds will be channeled through an AA account in US $500 increments and
replenished after submission of proper bills, checking of proper accounting and spot verifications in the
field. Expenditures in excess of US $500 will need prior agreement by the IDPIU.
Targeted Maintenance. The use of funds for this sub-component will depend upon requests from
potential AAs that apply under the National Program for participation in the project. The AA engineer and
AA staff, supported by regional DAWE staff, will inspect higher order infrastructure and indicate in the
Development Plan for an AA any bottlenecks that will prevent adequate water from reaching the AA
territories. IDPIU engineers will evaluate the condition of the water supply to the AA area. If spot repairs
such as desilting, repair of a gate, or repair of a leaking aqueduct are required to ensure the water supply,
funds from the targeted maintenance sub-component will be used to re-establish said supply, provided the
expenditures meet the minimum economic and technical criteria required under the Project. Procurement of
these works will be done by the PCC and the work will be supervised and certified by IDPIU's Engineering
Management Team.
The AA Establishment Program. IDPIU's Institutional Management Team will have main
responsibility for this sub-component. Public announcements and awareness and promotion seminars will
be made. The IDPIU will invite requests for establishing AAs and will also group those AAs under this
component who were not accommodated in the National AA Program, e.g. because the water supply or
main drainage system - albeit still partly functioning - needs major rehabilitation before investments in AA
managed network rehabilitation will be of significant benefit. All AAs in this group will be considered for
priority inclusion under the second phase of the APC.
Financial Management Assessment: The PCC, as the successor of the PCU, will be responsible
for the financial management of the project, as the PCU was for the Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
The financial management arrangements of the PCC satisfy the minimum requirements of the Association
for the purposes of the project. The accountant who has been assigned for the accounting of the IDCDP,
together with the existing complement of PCC accounting staff, are experienced in general accounting and
also in IDA-specific financial management and disbursement matters; the PCC's financial systems in terms
of accounting procedures and intemal controls which are being applied to the PPF are satisfactory and
appropriate for the project; the PCC's accounting manual has been reviewed by IDA and the PCC's
independent auditors and was found to be satisfactory; the draft CY2000 audited project financial
statements and management letter for the other projects (ADP and ARET) being implemented by the PCC
were satisfactory; and the in-house developed accounting software system, Copper, which is being used by
the PCC for the other projects which it is implementing, will be used for the IDCDP and a chart of
accounts specifically for the IDCDP has already been developed.
Project Management Reports (PMRs) and Disbursements. Project management-oriented PMRs
will be used for project monitoring and supervision and the indicative formats of these were agreed upon
during negotiations. The PCC will start producing a full set of PMRs for every calendar quarter
throughout the life of the project beginning with the period ending March 31, 2002. However, the PMRs
showing the project's sources and uses of funds by disbursement category (PMR lA), uses of funds by
project activity (PMR I B) and the project's Special Account Statement (PMR I E) as well as the four
procurement management reports (PMRs 3A, 3B, 3C and 3D) will be produced from project effectiveness.
Credit funds will initially be disbursed on the basis of established procedures, including Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs), and a move to PMR-based disbursements will be considered once the PCC is
familiar with the project's monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce sufficiently timely and
reliable PMRs.
- 21 -



Audit Arrangements. The PCC's previous and current auditing arrangements and findings are
satisfactory to the Association and it has been agreed that these audit arrangements will be extended to the
IDCDP, to include the IDCDP's project financial statements, SOEs (or PMRs if used as the basis of
disbursement), Special Account and Second Generation Special Accounts. The PCC has presented a terms
of reference acceptable to the Association for the audit of all projects being implemented by the PCC,
including the IDCDP, for CY2001. The audits are conducted by independent private auditors acceptable to
the Association, on terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and procured by the PCC through the
Least-Cost Selection procurement process. The annual audited project financial statements will be
provided to the Association within six months of the end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the
project. The contract for the audit will be extended from year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to
satisfactory performance. The cost of the audit will be financed from the proceeds of the credit.
Monitoring and Evaluation arrangements. Project monitoring and evaluation will be the
responsibility of the IDPIU. Project monitoring will be separated from project evaluation, which will be
perforned by an outside entity such as an University or an Institute on a contract basis. For monitoring, an
international expert will assist the IDPIU to design a management information system, reporting formats
for each component, including targeted annual performance objectives and monitoring indicators, using
Annex 1 details as the basis. Quarterly reports will cover progress in physical implementation, institutional
development, including training, progress with development of AAs, etc.
Evaluation will use the monitored information and evaluate the project's impact on agricultural
production and farm incomes, by measuring the change in income levels for farmers that participate under
the project as AA members and non-members, in relation to selected non-project farmns. Evaluation will
also cover the application and impact of the amended Law on Amelioration, obstacles in collecting water or
drainage charges, performance of the IDPIU and DAWE, as well as external constraints that hamper the
optimal implementation of the project. This information will be used to improve the project approach
wherever possible, or its implementation method, and will allow for the design of a better second-phase
project. Evaluation reports will be prepared on a yearly basis.
Quarterly progress reports will be consolidated by the PCC and submitted to the Association
within one month of the end of each quarter. On a bi-annual basis these progress reports will also include
an updated implementation plan for the six months following the reporting period. The PCC will, not later
than September 30 of each year, prepare and submit to the Association for its review and concurrence an
annual work program for the project for the following calendar year.
Government will prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the IDA, on or about March 31,
2004, a mid-term report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities and setting out
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the project during the second part of
implementation. The report will be reviewed with the IDA by June 30, 2004. Further, a project
implementation completion report will be prepared by PCC six months before the closing date of the
project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Without corrective intervention, the physical decline of the irrigation and drainage sub-sector is
likely to continue unabated. The remaining gravity irrigation schemes are declining at a rate of up to
15,000 ha per year, and the still operative gravity drainage schemes up to 10,000 ha per year. The effects
- 22 -



of the decline to-date were painfully exposed by the drought of 2000, which left 700,000 rural dwellers
without any income and lacking both adequate food supplies and seeds for the next season. Government
helped farmers with a large donor-assisted aid program. Trying to halt further losses in irrigated and
drained areas, by implementing a traditional, full-scale rehabilitation program is not possible because of the
financing constraints faced by Georgia at the current time. Consequently, major efforts need to be directed
toward halting further deterioration in priority areas, and keeping the systems operative until additional
funds for rehabilitation can be generated. This requires provision of mechanisms for adequate repair and
maintenance of the still-functioning schemes. Under current circumstances, this can only be achieved by
the establishment of an institutional framework through which the farmers within irrigable and drained
areas are themselves mobilized to participate and contribute. Water Management Associations of various
types have been introduced successfully elsewhere. Internationally, many have been in operation for a long
time and have often developed into Irrigation Districts, Land and Water Associations, or Drainage Boards.
Georgia's irrigation and drainage sector currently lacks an effective institutional framework to serve its
farmers. It is vital that this gap is filled in a way which both addresses the urgent need to keep irrigation
and drainage systems operating, and lays the basis for long-term development. It is also necessary to
reduce demands on the government budget.
An alternative option considered was the complete privatization of the irrigation and drainage
schemes. The project could rehabilitate/repair the infrastructure and thereafter require government to sell
or otherwise transfer ownership to new owners (interested farmers, farmer groups, or others). This would
also include privatization of DAWE as the main system operator. Experiences within the region with such
approaches have not proved successful. Reasons include: the profit element on water delivery is typically
resisted by small farmers; the monopoly position of the water supplier; the potential of bankruptcy of the
owner; and the potential to run the systems into disrepair while taking profits as long as the system lasts.
In addition, public awareness of water - a public good - will awake during a food crisis and call for a more
public responsibility of water matters for agricultural production, and can thus politically exploit the
defects of a purely private approach during the first crisis or opportunity. Consequently, this approach,
although considered, was not pursued.
Another option investigated was to develop groundwater for irrigation, either on its own, or in
combination with rehabilitation of the existing infrastructure. Groundwater has been used for irrigation
previously in Georgia, but all wells were rather large, deep tubewells with turbine pumps, which were
expensive to construct and operate for a typical flow of 20 liter/sec, and are abandoned at present. To
rehabilitate them, considerable funds and a workable user organization would be required. Privatizing such
wells would lead to a water delivery monopoly and to similar drawbacks as mentioned above. Providing
small pumps for individual farmers - as has been successfully done in many parts of the world, albeit
generally in shallow groundwater areas - would have considerable cost: a typical well of 60 m depth and a
small turbine pump would cost about US $10,000 and provide 2 - 4 liter/sec, which would cover a 2- 4 ha
farm, provided electricity were available and a pipe distribution system installed. A small storage reservoir
would be needed to practice surface irrigation. If a diesel-powered turbine pump were installed, the cost of
the system would increase further. Operating cost of an electric pump would be about US $0.14/mr
(including maintenance and depreciation), compared to the present charge of about US $0.004/m, and the
true O&M cost of the larger irrigation schemes of about US S0.015 to 0.02/mi (based on an O&M cost of
about US $40/ha). In short, a project for groundwater development would face the following constraints,
among others: (a) deep and limited aquifers; (b) high development cost - particularly for diesel pumps; (c)
need for additional on-farm infrastructure; and (d) need for reliable electric power source. Since water
supplies to almost all irrigation schemes will be adequate after rehabilitation, groundwater development
would simply not be competitive to surface water, and was therefore not proposed.
- 23 -



Investments in the measuring of irrigation water were considered as a means of striving for a more
efficient water use within the area under AA management, particularly since the water charges are based on
volumetric delivery. The present practice below the main canal estimates the amount delivered by time,
and equals one irrigation with the delivery of 1,000 m /ha. In order to fine-tune this delivery and determnine
a more precise volumne delivered, measuring devices would need to be introduced on a large scale. Four
major considerations led to reject this approach: (i) water resources are generally not a constraint and most
of the unused water is returned to the rivers, thus savings would not have a major economic value; (ii)
measuring devices were never built at the lower system level and would have to be introduced at
considerable cost; (iii) administrative cost of policing, measuring, recording, and collecting the varying
water charges would be considerable, both for DAWE and for AAs; and (iv) manipulation and conflicts
due to measuring devices should be expected. The decision was to make sure that water can be measured
at the head of each AA area, but to continue for the time being measurements within the AA on a simple
per irrigation and time basis. A review to upgrade measurements of water prior to implementing the second
phase of the APC will be made, as part of the preparation studies.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
. .                                 | Latest Supervision
Sector Issue           I          Project                  (PSR) Ratings
________________________________   I  _________________________   (Bank-financed   projects  only
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Lack of credit to Enterprises, Land  Agriculture Development         S             S
Titling, Rural Cooperative Banking    Project (co-financed by IFAD)
Unreformed Agriculture Research   Agriculture Research,              S             S
System                             Extension and Training Project
Lack of institutional framework and    Integrated Coastal Zone       S             S
govemance in Black Sea region      Management Project
tOther development agencies
Inadequate funds for O&M of        EU Program for 0 & M - US
Irrigation/Drainage Infrastructure  $4.5 million planned for 2001
Limited grain processing           EU TACIS grain processing
revolving fund
Lack of rural credit               EU TACIS - US S8 million,
through Credit Unions
Lack of rural credit               NGO micro credits through
ADCI (US $1.2 million) and
CARE (US $1.0 million)
- 24 -



Slow business development           EBRD - US $12 million for
industrial loans
Inadequate food security            FAO Special program to pilot
irrigation and drainage
rehabilitation - US $380,000;
completed
Lack of credit for small Enterprises  KFW/IFC (planned)
Inexperienced rural institutions    IFAD (planned)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience in the irrigation and drainage sub-sectors indicates that in order to get away from the
vicious cycle caused by lack of investments and maintenance, poor irrigation service, farner
dissatisfaction, low water fee collection resulting in even less maintenance, etc., projects should combine a
mix of physical rehabilitation and upgrading, user participation, improved financial performance and
attention to O&M. OED reviews and Bank reports on the irrigation portfolio also emphasize that: (i)
irrigation projects with large command areas should be given preference; (ii) there is need for adequate
provision of O&M; (iii) success with O&M is more likely when irrigation agencies are autonomous; (iv)
whether public or private entities provide O&M, budget contributions from the irrigators should remain
within the area of collection; and (v) effective demand-based services are an incentive to payment of water
charges.
Implementation experience in the sub-sectors shows that projects should: (i) help countries and
beneficiaries make selective investments for rehabilitation and improvements, with a careful assessment of
needs, to make sure that all priority constraints to improved water service are being addressed; (ii) assist
irrigation agencies and water users in improving their water management capabilities; (iii) help countries
develop or strengthen their legal and institutional framework for managing water resources and promoting
user participation and management; (iv) assist in enhancing cost-sharing programs so that water users have
access to reliable services and pay water fees that should be sufficient to carry out adequate O&M; (v)
concentrate on management transfer before system improvements; and (vi) help countries design the
delivery of agricultural services so that they complement the irrigation improvement efforts.
The lessons have been discussed with Government and the proposed project incorporates these in
its design. Moreover, it draws on the Bank's experience with irrigation and drainage projects in
ex-socialist countries such as Albania, Armenia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Macedonia, as well as in
neighboring Turkey. The project will promote the concept of adequate O&M and necessary payment of
fees for this. Farmers' willingness and capacity to pay for costs incurred in O&M, as well as a
contribution to the rehabilitation works is being tested in pilot areas. Farmers' organizations under the
project will largely control the location, design, supervision and payment of repair and rehabilitation works
of irrigation and drainage systems under their management.
During preparation, the establishment of three pilot schemes - one surface irrigation, one pump lift
irrigation, and one drainage scheme - was implemented to test farmer interest and implementation capacity.
The results have been encouraging, with sign-up for each pilot scheme of nearly 100 percent, and
- 25 -



significant contributions in-kind of US $20/ha equivalent were committed and made up-front as far as
technically possible. This experience suggests that organizing farmers into new types of associations, and
their subsequent provision of in-kind labor, should be considered feasible.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government indicated its commitment and ownership in a number of actions and statements to
the Association:
* PPF funds borrowed from IDA to prepare and test the project;
* Establishment of a Project Implementation Center following a presidential Decree and
registration of the Center as a legal body, and the recent establishment of the Projects
Coordination Center as a legal body of Public Law, which includes the Irrigation and Drainage
Project Implementation Unit;
* Establishment of two FAO-financed pilot schemes;
* Establishment of three pilot schemes financed from the PPF;
*   First amendment of the Law on Amelioration to allow establishment of AAs;
*  Field visits to Armenia, Spain, Germany and Great Britain to study options for organizing
AAs;
* Preparation of elaborate project documents;
* Affirmation by the Ministers of Agriculture and Finance, during appraisal, of the high priority
attached to this project; and
o During a recent GOG meeting the statement by the President of Georgia of the high priority
Government places on the proposed project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The principal contribution of IDA support will be the introduction of intemational best practices in
engineering and institutional design and operation of AAs, for both irrigated and drained agriculture. IDA
missions have worked in the field and office with IDPIU managers and ancillary staff and introduced them
to the requirements for design of cost-effective engineering interventions and priority selection of schemes
according to econornic benefit. During project implementation, IDA will continue its support for
institutional innovation, rational selection of technologies and schemes to be improved, emphasis on cost
recovery, beneficiary ownership, and competitive procurement.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = 24 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The overall rate of return for this project has been calculated at 24 percent. This includes all
project costs, including those for institutional and implementation support, except for the costs associated
with the dam safety and environmental sub-components.
A technical and economic ranking was carried out during project preparation on most of the major
schemes in the country. Only those schemes promising positive economic returns - in addition to technical,
social and environmental sustainability - were considered for inclusion in the APC. Consideration was
given to spreading investments for rehabilitation among as many schemes as possible, wherever AAs can
- 26 -



be established and low-cost rehabilitation can be achieved.
The project will also provide funds for major and urgently required rehabilitation to maintain
service to large command areas. Included in this category of works is a small pumped irrigation scheme
(Meskheti) whose management could be transferred in its entirety to its AA, which would provide lessons
for larger-scale transfer of infrastructure. The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the five systems
covered under this Rehabilitation Program (including the seed money investments to AAs) are given in the
table below (see Annex 4 for details). The EIRR for the investments in AA-managed schemes (excluding
the ones made under the Rehabilitation Program) is estimated at 25 percent (see Annex 4).
Overall Internal Rates of Return (Econonic) by Scheme
SCHEME                                      INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
(ECONOMIC)
Tashiskari                                               35%
Kvemo Alazani                                            20%
Meskheti (Georgitsminda)                                 61%
Rioni Khobi (Chaladidi)                                  39%
Rioni Choloki (Lanchkuti)                                36%
Note 1: The rates of return given here are dependent on a number of assumptions, which are fully described for
each scheme in Annex 4.
General assumptions
Cost of production assumptions are provided in Annex 4. Quantities of farm inputs and outputs
have been based on the crop budgets presented in the Agronomy Working Paper, which is in the Project
Files.
Phasing of benefits
Each scheme is envisaged to benefit from improved supplies of irrigation water, or improved
drainage, according to the phasing of rehabilitation works. For the distribution networks within AA service
territories, the improvement in supplies will proceed according to the establishment and development of the
AAs, who will be the controllers of the rehabilitation works. Before AAs can contract rehabilitation work
through the project, they will need to be well-established. Sufficient AAs will have been established prior
to disbursement of project funds to enable rehabilitation work to proceed in Year 1. On average, it is
foreseen that it will take each AA several years to improve its networks to a state where their whole area
receives water sufficient to meet total crop water requirements. In the intervening period when the main
interventions have come from investments from the seed money, they will receive improved water supplies
to around 75 percent of requirements, on average. On the drainage schemes, increased production will be
possible one year after rehabilitation, but it will take 2 years after rehabilitation for the full impact to be
realized. Scheme life is taken as 25 years.
- 27 -



Without project, irrigation water supplies are expected to decline due to increasing problems in
the distribution networks. For example, on Kvemo Alazani, it is foreseen that the area irrigated would
dwindle from an estimated 30 percent of the command area at present, to 20 percent in 2 years' time, and to
only 5 percent (areas closest to the main canal) after 5 years. On Tashiskari, the tunnel has already
collapsed twice (now supported by wooden beams) and is extremely likely to collapse again, which would
reduce 6,400 ha of the area fed from the main canal to rainfed production in one stroke. In the drainage
schemes, the area producing crops in Chaladidi would decline from 55 to 25 percent over the next 5 years
and in Lanchkuti from 67 to 30 percent.
Economic costs of rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of the schemes have been estimated
in economic terms by adjusting the financial values to reflect more closely their opportunity cost to the
economy of Georgia. Taxes have been deducted and labor has been shadow-priced at half of the
contractor's costs, which include social charges at 31 percent. In addition, the foreign exchange component
of the costs has been estimated in order to gauge the project's overall contribution to net foreign exchange
eamings. It should be noted that, with the exception of pumping costs, only a very general estimate of
average costs for operation and maintenance of the schemes has been possible at this stage, based on the
work of the preparation study. The economic costs are based on financial estimates of GEL 80/ha for
irrigation schemes and GEL 60/ha for drainage schemes, adjusted for taxes and shadow labor wages.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
Although steps have already been taken in Georgia to charge irrigators for water, the level of water
charges is low (about GEL 12 to 16 per ha per year) in relation to the estimated O&M costs of entire
systems, including both AA and DAWE costs, of about GEL 80 per ha. Full cost recovery of O&M will
take some time to achieve and, in relatively high rainfall regions, it may only be achievable in areas with
special conditions for high-value crops such as potatoes, or seed production. Since demand for water in all
areas is likely to be variable from year to year, AAs will almost certainly need to incorporate a flat rate
tariff to cover their overheads, in addition to the current volumetric tariff.
Another issue is the question of continued funding to DAWE for O&M costs of headworks, main
canals and other infrastructure under their jurisdiction, presently estimated to amount to GEL 50 per ha.
Currently, the bulk of DAWE's funding for O&M is met by EU funding through the central budget.
However, these allocations do not fully cover the true O&M cost and are by no means secured in the
future. It is clear that for some years to come, a significant portion of DAWE's funding must continue to
come through the central budget, until AAs are able to meet full O&M costs. However, by the end of the
first phase of the APC, improved water delivery generated by project interventions should lead to increased
farm revenue, which will then allow fuller collection and payment to DAWE of appropriate water fees.
Additionally, the study of options for DAWE will result in streamlining its staffing and any transfer of
higher order systems to AAs will allow DAWE to focus their resources on O&M of main structures and
main supply canals. All of the above will result in budget savings for Government, which means that the
overall fiscal impact on the GOG shall be positive.
Given Government's proven limited capacity for revenue collection, and competing needs for funds,
the provision of counterpart contributions to the project have been kept to a minimumn The project has
been designed so that a considerable portion of the local cost sharing for the project is carried by the AAs,
- 28 -



thus minimizing the fiscal contributions from the Govemment.
3. Technical:
During project preparation, the engineering standards of the former Soviet Union were adjusted to
more modem and more cost effective standards with the help of intemational specialists. Technical
engineering assistance will be available during project implementation, as needed, to ensure that economic
and modem design principles are incorporated. It is thus envisaged that the technical designs and
construction for all works funded under the project will be to international standards, leading to
economically viable schemes.
Cost estimates for project works have been based on unit rates and procedures developed by
DAWE with international specialist assistance, as the rates previously used under the Soviet system gave
low project costs and thus the risk of project under-funding. An analysis has been made of the cost
estimates and the actual bid prices for the pilot schemes. The analysis shows that cost estimates reflect the
actual contractors' prices.
Under the Soviet system, water was supplied to state and collective farms, which carried out their
own internal water management. Now, with the need to supply irrigation water to private beneficiaries
grouped mainly on tertiary units, the water control will have to be done to a lower level. This will require
some additional water control structures, such as cross-regulators and measuring devices, and revised water
management practices and procedures. This will be incorporated in AA Development Plans, as considered
by AAs and their members.
None of the major irrigation dams supplies water to any of the schemes proposed under the
Rehabilitation Program in Phase 1. However, dams may provide water to the area under the National AA
Program and under the AA Establishment Prograrn, as these schemes could be anywhere in the country.
Therefore, dam safety aspects were reviewed to international safety standards and no major dam safety
issues were found. A Dam Safety Action plan has been developed, which covers critical interventions to be
undertaken during the first phase, mainly related to detailed dam examination studies. Also a Dam Safety
Panel will be established by March 31, 2003, comprising independent Georgian experts, to inspect the
irrigation dams in the country at regular intervals of normally five years and prepare inspection reports
with recommendations for darn safety actions.
An independent and private contracting industry is still being developed in Georgia, and many
major construction agencies are either government departments or state joint stock companies. Thus,
competition may be limited for the major works under the Rehabilitation Program, but it has been
determined that there is contracting expertise in the country to participate in all procurements, including the
larger specialized works, such as the tunnel and headworks. It is also expected that neighboring
contractors, especially from Turkey, may participate in bidding for these larger works. There are
numerous small contractors throughout the country that can be involved in the smaller construction works
within the AA areas or the targeted rehabilitation sub-component. Contractors have, however, little
understanding of competitive bidding or of accurately pricing their bids. Training will be conducted by
IDPIU for local contractors to make them familiar with requirements of IDA-financed projects.
- 29 -



4. Institutional:
As at present, DAWE will own and be responsible to maintain and operate the main irrigation and
drainage systems. Licenses for water abstraction or discharge for irrigation and drainage schemes of any
kind will continue to be the responsibility of DAWE. It presently owns about 60 percent of the secondary
networks, many of which are within the command areas of future AAs. The remainder of these networks
are owned by Village Councils. Use of the infrastructure within the territory of an AA will be transferred
to the AA on a usufruct basis. Options for AAs to apply for ownership of infrastructure and to federate
and take over entire irrigation and drainage schemes for O&M and improvement will be considered at a
later stage, after AAs have proven to be capable of managing the lower order systems. This will change the
role of DAWE as the sole provider for irrigation and drainage O&M.
The proposed amendments to the Law on Amelioration call for the establishment of a Regulatory
Office in MAF. This will be done by September 30, 2004, with composition and functions as determined
in the institutional study for DAWE. It is envisaged that such agency will have audit and controlling
powers over AAs to ensure that they are carrying out the intended services to their member farmers. It will
be concemed with AA registration, monitoring and evaluation of audit books, water charge setting,
adequacy of by-laws, spot auditing of AA maintenance activities, etc. Initially, since the number of AAs is
small, this function will be carried out by the IDPIU, in cooperation with a few delegated staff of MAF on
a part-time basis.
AAs taking water directly from public sources will need to obtain a license to do so from the
Ministry of Environment (MOE). Similarly, AAs discharging water directly into public water bodies need
to procure a license. MOE may start charging a flat annual fee for water abstraction or discharge, for
which the details are still to be worked out. Initially there will be few AAs that will abstract or discharge
directly, as for the time being most of this will continue to be done by DAWE.
4.1 Executing agencies:
As noted in Section C, the Project will be implemented under the aegis of the MAF, with specific
responsibility for overall co-ordination assigned to a high-level PCC Director. For the time being, this
project will be one of three World Bank projects coordinated by the PCC.
Despite budget constraints, DAWE still has a cadre of experienced engineers and operators. Many
of these staff at both central and regional level have shown considerable interest in the activities proposed
under the project and many have participated actively with their local knowledge during project
preparation.
4.2 Project management:
The core service team of the PCC has gained considerable experience with implementation of
fiduciary requirements, such as procurement and financial management. It is noted that all staff that
previously worked satisfactorily for the PCU and PIC, and were recruited through competitive selection,
will be offered to continue in their positions under the PCC. The technical implementation of this project
will be carried out by IDPIU, which is a unit under the PCC. The IDPIU is headed by a project manager,
- 30 -



who has also been in charge of project preparation on behalf of the Borrower. He is supported by a team
of professional and support staff. Many of these staff have participated in training, both within and outside
the country, and study tours. During preparation, the IDPIU has shown strong pro-activity and a
progressive approach in designing the project, and carrying out the various preparation tasks. As this team
is expected to be carried over to the implementation period, it is unlikely that there will be major delays in
start-up that are the fault of the IDPIU.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The implementing agency has shown basic capacity to prepare standard Bank bidding documents
for both works and consultants, and to carry out bidding procedures in accordance with Bank procedures.
A Procurement Specialist participated in the pre-appraisal mission, and left templates of all types of
bidding documents with IDPIU. Afterwards, the IDPIU was assisted by an internationally recruited
engineer with the preparation of sample works bidding documents, including detailed specifications, and
Requests for Proposals for consulting firms. During preparation, the IDPIU had a procurement specialist
and a procurement assistant. These officers will move to the newly established PCC core services team,
that will be in charge of all procurement under IDA-financed agricultural projects.
The procurement of works, goods and services to be financed from the seed money will be carried
out by AAs. Annex 6 describes the principles of this community participation (guided by Bank documents,
notably "Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement in Community Participation Projects",
OED, 1995; and "Sample Procurement and Financial Procedures Manual for use by Conmmunity-Based
Organizations, June 2000", both of which have been made available to the Borrower). The details for this
project are described in the Project Implementation Plan and especially in an Operational Manual, the
outline of which has been discussed during negotiations. The completion and adoption by the Borrower of
this Manual is an effectiveness condition. As this will be an innovative way of implementing works there
will be close supervision by IDPIU staff and also during IDA supervision missions. A review of the
AA-managed procurement arrangements will be made on an annual basis, at least during the first few years
of project implementation.
4.4 Financial management issues:
In 2000, the Association conducted a Country Portfolio Financial Management Review (CPFMR)
of all projects currently under supervision in Georgia and concluded that project financial management
capacity is being progressively developed, inter alia, as a result of reforms in accounting and auditing and
the creation of an independent accounting profession in Georgia. However, systematic capacity building in
project financial management is needed if the Georgia portfolio of IDA-financed projects is to be
implemented successfully. The main risks of the project's financial management arrangements are as
follows:
(i) Capacity of staff The CPFMR concluded that given the high demand for skilled financial
professionals in Georgia, most of the newly-created project implementation units reported difficulties in
recruitment of skilled accountants. However, the PCC currently employs full-time experienced financial
staff who have significant experience of general accounting and IDA-specific financial management and
disbursement matters.
(ii) Financial management systems. In respect of existing IDA projects' financial management
systems, the CPFMR noted: "Generally, PIUs do not pay enough attention to basic intemal control
procedures. Although most of the PIUs have operational manuals, during project implementation, these
- 31 -



manuals are usually not much in use, and most of the accounting software packages used in Georgia are
not supported by adequate access to technical support and information technology hotlines." Therefore, the
Association reviewed the detailed design of the PCC's financial management systems, including its
procedures and intemal controls, and found these to be acceptable. In addition, the findings of the auditor
in respect of the other projects being implemented by the PCC did not raise any issues of concern. During
the audit for CY2000, the auditors also reviewed the PCC's accounting manual, which is only available in
the Georgian language, and found it to be satisfactory. During project supervision, the Association will, as
recommended by the CPFMR, periodically review the accounting manual to ensure that it is being adhered
to and is up-to-date.
(iii) Banking Arrangements / Special Account. The banking sector in Georgia is relatively weak.
During project preparation, the Govemment opened a Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to
the Association, and a transit account in a local commercial bank rated as Camel I or Camel 2 by the
National Bank of Georgia. These arrangements were assessed by the Association to have been satisfactory
and therefore they will remain in place during project implementation. The CPFMR noted some difficulties
in the management of existing IDA projects' transit accounts and thus it has been agreed for this project
that the total amount held in the transit account will be limited to the equivalent of US $5,000 and also, as
recommended by the CPFMR, IDA supervision will include periodic reviews of the transit account and its
management in addition to reviews of the Special Account and other project accounts. The SA and transit
accounts will be audited annually and the results made available to the Association.
IDA funds towards the financing of development plans will be transferred in stages by the PCC
into AA managed second generation special accounts (see Annex 2 for more details). It is expected that
about 120 second generation special accounts will be opened during the life of the project and that about
US $6 million will flow through these decentralized accounts. AAs will be located all over the country,
which will make it time-consuming and difficult to transfer many small amounts of funds from the central
Special Account for payments when needed. The Borrower is unable to provide adequate working capital
in a timely manner to the PCC to pre-finance IDA's share of expenditures to the AA development plans
from its own resources. The Govemment is short of funds and has an unreliable cash flow, both of which
could adversely impact the implementation of the development plans and thus the success of the project.
Also, under the proposed project, a program approach will be followed for the rehabilitation of AA
managed networks. As AAs have to go through a number of steps before they qualify for rehabilitation
activities, it is difficult to predict exactly when a particular AA will be ready to start using funds for
rehabilitation and O&M. To rely on Government funds to pre-fmance these activities is not practical, as
the funds will unlikely be made available at times and in the amounts required for a satisfactory
implementation of the project. As explained in Annex 2, the project will have stringent accounting and
auditing control measures in place to check on the use of funds by AAs. Sufficient administrative capacity
will be built up to provide this, while annual independent audits of the second generation special accounts
will be made.
(iv) Auditing arrangements. The findings of the CPFMR conclude that project auditing
arrangements for most projects in the Georgia portfolio are satisfactory. The CPFMR also clarifies that,
despite progress made in terms of size of membership and professional development, the Georgia
Federation of Professional Accountants and Auditors is not yet a member of the Intemational Federation of
Accountants (IFAC) and therefore the local audit firms certified by the Audit Council of the Parliament of
Georgia are not yet eligible to carry out audits of IDA-financed projects. Membership of a professional
accounting organization which is itself a member of IFAC is a pre-requisite for any audit firm to be
considered acceptable to the Association. However, the recent accounting and audit reforms have created
an enabling environment for creating associations between intemational audit firms acceptable to the
- 32 -



Association and local audit firms. The Association will provide a no-objection to the auditor selected by
the PCC prior to its appointment.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project will finance the rehabilitation of deteriorated irrigation and drainage systems
throughout Georgia. No new structure of significant size will be built under the project. Given the nature
of the rehabilitation work, the project has been classified as environmental category "B." Consistent with
the provisions of OP 4.01 and Georgian environmental legislation, a full Enviromnental Assessment (EA)
was carried out during the preparation phase. Early on during project preparation, FAO carried out an
enviromnental review (dated November 1998). Because of the significant changes in project design during
the preparation phase, a detailed EA was commissioned in November 2000. The detailed EA of each
irrigation and drainage scheme selected for rehabilitation in the first phase of the APC was prepared by a
consultant team funded by the EU-TACIS Joint Environment Program. The EA was carried out on the
basis of the information provided by DAWE, a detailed desk-based analysis, and several baseline surveys
on water, soil, ecological, and socio-economic conditions of the project sites. A brief analysis of a number
of alternatives to the proposed rehabilitation of schemes was conducted, but no viable alternative was found
from the financial, technical and social perspective.
The EA identified the following potential negative impacts of the project: (i) disruption to wildlife
or sensitive ecological habitants during the construction phase and/or implementation phase; (ii)
waterlogging and salinization of soils in areas that have shallow water tables and low soil permeability; (iii)
deterioration of downstream surface water and/or groundwater quality; (iv) reduction of downstream flows;
(v) vegetation growth and sedimentation of canals; (vi) poor quality of irrigation water as a result of
disposal of untreated wastewater and sewerage into rivers and irrigation canals; and (vii) disposing of
excavated (and possibly contaminated) soils. Other issues relate to the environmental impacts caused by
contractors during the construction phase.
As part of the environmental assessment process, consultations were held during the preparation of
the EA with several stakeholders at the local and national levels. During the consultation process, local
populations did not voice any major concerns about the project. Moreover, they expressed readiness for
construction to commence. Some local stakeholders expressed concems about possible disputes over water
allocation and illegal water extraction. Some local NGOs expressed concerns for the potential
contamination of river water, conflicting objectives among IDA-supported interventions, potential impacts
on migratory waterfowl, and for the need to arrive at a balanced approach to minimize ecosystem damage
while providing an opportunity to increase the welfare of the local population. These concems were taken
into account by project staff and as much as possible addressed and explained during the workshops and in
the final EA report.
The draft EA report was reviewed by the Ministry of Environment, and the comments were
incorporated into the draft final report. The final EA report was also subject to a State Ecological Expert
review.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The detailed Environmental Management Plan (EMP), included as an annex in the Project
- 33 -



Implementation Plan, includes monitoring and mitigation activities for each of the proposed project
schemes at different stages during project preparation and implementation. The EMP includes the design
of appropriate water allocation procedures, design of appropriate options for disposal/use of soils,
introduction of a trial program for naturally vegetated pollution filtration zones, monitoring of wetland
ecosystems, introduction of environmentally sustainable agricultural management practices (in cooperation
with ARET, especially to reduce the discharge of nutrients in drainage water), preparation of site
environmental management plans, institutional strengthening activities, in addition to monitoring activities
to measure project impacts on the environment (soil erosion, salinization, discharge of nutrients into the
fragile wetlands ecosystems) and concurrence of water quality with existing standards. Implementation of
the EMP was discussed and agreed with the Government and it has been adequately costed.
The EMP includes guidelines for environmnentally sound construction practices, such as options for
disposal of the dragged materials and fragments of vegetation produced after cleaning of channels. The
bidding documents will have appropriate environmental clauses. Also included are technical specifications
for the civil works to be contracted out to ensure that environmnental safety requirements are known and
understood by potential contractors. The EMP includes training requirements and other necessary
support services to implement the related mitigating measures. Training programs regarding
implementation of the environmental management plan and environmental guidelines for contractors were
carried out during the preparation phase and will be repeated, if found necessary, during project
implementation.
During project implementation, statistical information will be collected on low flow conditions in
the Mtkvari and Alazani rivers to determine the potential impacts on low-flow conditions. Computer
modeling will be made to be able to carry out future forecasting. This activity will be carried out in
cooperation with other donors such as TACIS and USAID, who are working on water issues in the
Caucasus region. The monitoring data that will be collected for the drainage schemes will be shared with
the team of the Integrated Coastal Zone Management Project (ICZMP), which is working in the Rioni
Choloki wetland basin. This data will provide inputs into the Geographical Information System (GIS) that
is being developed for the ICZMP, for further analysis.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: April 26, 2001
The draft EA report was submitted to the Association and MOE in January 2001. It was reviewed
and commented on by the ECA Safeguard Compliance Unit. Informal comments on the draft final report
were also provided by the Borrower's Department of Environmental Permit and State Ecological
Examination. The draft final version was placed in the Bank's Infoshop on February 12, 2001 and the
Executive Summary was sent to the IDA Board of Executive Directors. The final report, which has taken
into account all comments, was submitted to the Infoshop on May 17, 2001, to replace the draft final
version.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
As indicated above, beneficiaries of the project were consulted during the EA preparation process.
Consultations were carried out at two levels. At the national level, technical staff from the Ministry of
Environment, technical staff of the Public Health Department, NGOs, academia and experts were
consulted. At the local level, consultations were carried out with local govenmnent organizations, farmers
- 34 -



and water users, local NGOs working in the project areas, and potentially affected nearby villages. The
Draft EA was disclosed in two public hearings organized in Poti and Tbilisi, and was discussed in a
meeting at the Academy of Sciences of Georgia. A non-technical report prepared in Georgian was made
available through NGOs and government networks at the national and local level prior to the public
hearings.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The IDPIU will be responsible to monitor the impacts of the project. The IDPIU's Environmental
Specialist will be directly responsible for the supervision of the EMP. The monitoring of the EMP will be
the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment. Up to two staff members of the Ministry's central office
and one from the western regional office will be seconded to the IDPIU to ensure full coordination and
compliance with national environmental standards. They will remain on the payroll of the Ministry of
Environment. Environmental consultants will help to identify and quantify all environmental indicators
early on during project implementation. The baseline information obtained during the preparation of the
EA will be updated regularly by the IDPIU in order to assess that the project is fulfilling its requirements
according to the EMP.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment (SA) was undertaken during early stages of project preparation as part of the
analysis of water-related institutions. The SA did rapid assessments of 12 irrigation schemes and 8
drainage schemes in 36 villages, interviewing over 550 farmers and 25 village councils. The SA provided
an overall assessment of the status of farmers, their problems and social capital in the villages, and brief
profiles of each of the schemes. Later in preparation, the team decided not to update the SA in light of
changes in project design, but to focus instead on lessons learned from the pilot schemes and develop a
rapid assessment procedure to be undertaken in each AA at the point of initial contact with the project.
Unfortunately, completion of pilot activities were delayed, yielding limited lessons relative to the initial
stages of AA formation, which were assessed during appraisal. The rapid appraisal approach
recommended in the SA will be incorporated into the work program of Regional Facilitators and AA
Organizers, and social impacts will be assessed independently during implementation.
The principal social issues to be addressed by the project are poverty and inequitable access to
water. The dissolution of state and collective farms created an institutional vacuum for farm-level water
management, which DAWE has never filled. Meanwhile, the land reform process created small,
fragmented parcels within irrigation command areas that were designed for large fields. Consequently,
even if a system functioned properly, only the parcels near the permanent secondary or tertiary outlets had
dependable access to irrigation water, and many farmers adjacent to the secondary and tertiary canals
needed to damage the canals to create new outlets near their parcels in order to obtain water. The general
deterioration of the irrigation infrastructure further exacerbated disparities in access and increased poverty
as farmers turned to rainfed subsistence cropping.
The project aims at increasing equity of access to irrigation water through physical rehabilitation
and improvements and institutional development, and thus to improve the social and economic status of
farmers in irrigated areas. AAs established under the Rehabilitation Program, and those selected for the
National Program, will be given grant funds to improve irrigation and drainage networks, including
- 35 -



hydraulic structures and channels so that all parcels receive irrigation water or can be drained. The project
will help farmers establish and provide ongoing support to AAs in the Rehabilitation, National and
Establishment Program areas to empower them to operate and maintain their systems effectively and
equitably.
Project funding to AAs (Rehabilitation and National Programs) is contingent on contributions by
farmers; thus it is quite possible that project participation will occur first where the capacity to pay or
contribute is highest, not necessarily where the need is greatest. Areas in which land is leased to large
farmers are likely to have the greatest capacity to pay and are likely to be the first to apply for project
support. Similarly, present leaders of ASCs can be expected to transform their groups into AAs quickly
and seek project support. These two situations have the potential of reinforcing economic disparities
between rural commnunities if the AAs in the poorest areas are unable to mobilize adequate resources. In
order to understand risks and minirmize abuse, project preparation included a preliminary social analysis to
shape detailed project design, as well as the drafting of the legal framework, which will only recognize AAs
that represent the majority of farmers and the majority of the land in the hydraulic unit served by the AA.
This balance of land area and farming units will ensure that the interests of small landowners are protected.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The principal stakeholders in the project are farmers in irrigated areas, local communities and their
administrations, staff of DAWE and contractors.
a)     The conversion from ASCs to AAs requires the active participation of farmers who must
vote whether or not to form an AA (at least 51 percent of the farmers in the service area must agree,
representing more than 51 percent of the land area) and elect members of the board of directors, who
appoint a chairman. Although farmers clearly feel the need to establish a water management system, they
are suspicious of collectivization efforts, as they are not accustomed to democratic procedures. They
generally feel that they have the basic technical skills needed for operation and maintenance, as well as
bookkeeping, but they understand that other skills will also be required to sustain the AAs. Thus,
considerable assistance will be required by the project to help organize and provide ongoing support to
improve their basic skills and introduce new skills. Regional Facilitators and AA Organizers will be
responsible for institutional support and training in the Rehabilitation and National Programs, as well as in
the Establishment Program. The Facilitators and AA Organizers will be trained to help AAs organize and
provide the continuous support and training they need to make them self-sustaining.
b)     AAs will be established according to hydraulic boundaries, which may be different from
the present ASCs' boundaries. Experience to-date has shown that this principle is both understood by
farmers and acceptable to them. Pilot AAs have already demonstrated their ability to establish boundaries
that both respect hydraulic divisions and reflect social boundaries, thus increasing social cohesion. Both
village administrations and beneficiaries will be involved in establishing the boundaries, while DAWE will
assist in this process.
c)     AA participation in the project is voluntary and demand driven. In both the Rehabilitation
and National Programs, AAs must apply to participate. Once they have been accepted, the AAs are to
engage an engineer to help them select the type of works needed to render their irrigation and drainage
systems operational. Once the AAs have decided how to proceed, they counter-sign the use of their seed
money for the selected works and are expected to oversee execution of the works. Such participation is
innovative for Georgia and is designed to give farmers real ownership of the process and to empower AAs
to assume ongoing responsibilities. Given the current situation in which farmers either are subject to the
- 36 -



arbitrary management of an ASC or face a total organizational vacuum for water management, farmers in
the pilot schemes have shown considerable interest in the project approach and understand the value of
organizing for their self-interest. Although none of the three pilots has been fully rehabilitated, there are a
number of lessons. Establishment of AAs has been relatively smooth, with very high membership. AA
members have decided on the rehabilitation needs and the contributions they could make. The latter has
been done to the maximum extent possible. Rehabilitation works on the three pilot schemes are now
ongoing, with the participation of local contractors, and further member contributions are being made. It is
expected that all works will be completed in June 2001, after which an assessment of the process will be
made. Nonetheless, the team considers the risk of poor AA-DAWE cooperation to be modest.
d)     AAs are independent associations. Nevertheless, the pilot AAs have been strongly
supported by both DAWE and local governments, and this support is expected to continue. Other
stakeholders possibly include NGOs and other donors in the field of irrigation and drainage.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project is designed to assist farmers to create self-managing associations - essentially NGOs.
The objective is to empower them to manage water distribution and maintenance in their hydraulic units
and, as the need arises, possibly assume other related responsibilities as well. Although membership is
voluntary, given the current organizational vacuum in most systems and the monopoly of self-serving ASCs
in others, farmers respond favorably to the opportunity to take charge of their fate. Membership has been
over 90 percent in the pilot areas and the newly formed AAs beyond the pilots. Currently, there are no
other NGOs engaged in irrigated agriculture, except farmers associations and farmers cooperatives. The
project will work closely with such organizations, as appropriate and desired by farmers. Existing NGOs
with community development experience and Participatory Rapid Appraisal (PRA) expertise may be called
upon to assist in the training for Regional Facilitators and AA Organizers to strengthen their community
interface skills. Numerous beneficiary workshops have been and will be held in all project areas, delivering
technical assistance necessary to assist farmers in their decision on whether or not to form AAs, and
subsequently, as they get registered and face the challenges of creating new institutions.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The majority of project personnel will be members of the Institutional Management Team of the
IDPIU, which will be responsible for assisting farmers organize AAs and supporting their growth through
continuous interaction and organized training, and helping the AAs manage their seed money. The team
will have a 'hands-on' approach, continuously advising AAs on the day-to-day operations of their
organization and arranging specialized support, as needed. The project will fund comprehensive training
programs for AA managers, accountants and members to ensure that the AAs are competent, transparent
and responsive to the needs of members. The Institutional Management Team has a clear mandate to help
farmers organize to ensure that irrigation water deliveries are dependable and equitable, and the project will
provide training opportunities for Institutional Management Team staff to strengthen their individual and
collective skills, sharing experience and building on it.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Each AA or prospective AA will participate in a PRA exercise to establish a baseline from which
to assess the impact of the project. The exercises will enable AA members to articulate problems and
- 37 -



shortcomings and set goals to be achieved through the AA. These will be monitored periodically by IMT
staff. Additionally, an independent group of social analysts will periodically conduct interviews in the field
to monitor the work of IMT staff, assess impact and identify problems that should be addressed.
Ultimately, however, each AA will be called upon to monitor and assess its impact. The project will
establish clear quantitative and qualitative indicators to monitor regularly, internally and extemally.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                * Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     * Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          C Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
A) Environmental Assessment - the Development Credit Agreement includes a covenant calling for
the implementation of the EMP. The Association will monitor the adherence to the EMP as part of its
supervision activities.
B) Safety of Dams - an initial Dam Safety assessment has been completed during preparation.
Based on this initial assessment none of the major dams was found to have dam safety issues. More
detailed assessments are planned under the project, including: hydrologic studies (flood management);
seismicity and dam dynamic analysis; full dam examination studies, and study of upgrades needed for
telecommunication and warning systems at four major dams. Unless the detailed studies reveal urgent
needs to assure dam safety, it is envisaged that any works needed at the dams will be implemented during
the second phase of the APC. It was also agreed with Government that a dam Safety Panel will be
established by March 31, 2003, comprising independent experts, to inspect the irrigation dams at regular
intervals of normally five years and prepare inspection reports with recommendations for dam safety
actions.
C) Projects in Intemational Waters - most of the irrigation schemes abstract water from the
Alazani, Mtkvari and lori rivers, which are intemational rivers flowing from Georgia into Azerbaijan. The
Government of Georgia (GOG) notified Azerbaijan in letters dated August 12, 1998 and October 30, 1998
about the proposed project. The Government of Azerbaijan (GOA) responded in a letter dated December
22, 1998. In its response, the GOA indicated its concern about the original Soviet Union scheme of
development of irrigation along the intemational rivers that are shared between the two countries.
However, considering that the project is concemed with rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes, GOA
did not object to the proposed project. At appraisal stage, the Association requested GOG to update the
notification to GOA, based on the latest details of the schemes to be rehabilitated. This was done in a letter
dated March 9, 2001. In this letter, it was calculated that the water abstraction for the project schemes will
be reduced by 4 percent compared to the average annual abstraction between 1986 and 1996, because of
increased efficiency of use through rehabilitated infrastructure. In a letter dated April 16, 2001, GOA
- 38 -



reiterated its no objection to the implementation of the proposed project.
The drainage schemes are located in the westem part of the country, a high-rainfall area, and drain
into the Black Sea. Rehabilitation will be limited to selective drainage channel cleaning to take bottlenecks
out of drainage systems and will not cover works that will exceed the original schemes. Considering the
small drainage area to be covered under the Rehabilitation Program (less than 4,000 ha), the expected
increase in drainage water to be disposed in local rivers that discharge at different locations into the Black
Sea will be negligible. As such the drainage rehabilitation will not adversely change the quality or quantity
of water flows to other riparian, and will not be adversely affected by the other riparians' possible water
use. In this context, the proposed drainage works were exempted from the notification requirement.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Adequate and regular maintenance of irrigation and drainage infrastructure is critical for the
sustainability of project benefits. At the moment there is insufficient financing for O&M of infrastructure
at all levels. DAWE does not receive enough budget to adequately take care of O&M of the infrastructure
under its management. Water charges levied by DAWE are GEL 4 per 1,000 m, which typically equals
one irrigation. Most schemes receive around 3 to 4 irrigations per season. The EU is supporting MAF
with funds for O&M, but this support has been constrained by the low level of government contribution,
which so far received the EU funds on a reimbursement basis. This insufficient budget for a number of
years now has led to significant arrears in routine and emergency maintenance. The current situation with
the O&M of lower order infrastructure is even worse. Hardly any resources are generated by the users,
resulting in continuing deterioration of infrastructure.
The project will put major emphasis on achieving adequate O&M of irrigation and drainage
infrastructure. The annual O&M cost will be system specific, but has been estimated to average GEL 80
per ha (comprising GEL 50 for main supply systems and GEL 30 for secondary and tertiary distribution
systems under the management of future AAs), which has to be increasingly paid by AAs.
Annual O&M costs for the main drains and collectors (principally maintenance and operation of
drains) are provisionally estimated at GEL 40 per ha. Where pumping is necessary, additional costs of
around GEL 10 per ha per season may be incurred. Farmers that benefit from drainage rehabilitation will
pay to DAWE similar charges as farmers benefiting from rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure. At the
end of this project the aim is to achieve payment of about GEL 20 to 25 per ha per year. In the longer
term, when full O&M costs are to be recovered, a case will be made for distributing drainage charges more
widely among the communities benefiting, for example through a village tax or admitting the village
communities as members of the AAs. Annual costs for maintenance of the tertiary network (provisionally
estimated at GEL 20/ha) will have to be borne by the AAs. Farmers themselves will be responsible for
maintenance of their field drains. A large proportion of maintenance work is likely to be carried out by
tractors and machinery, with only minor ancillary works being feasible through direct handwork or animal
traction from farmers' own resources.
The project will work with AAs that are committed to take charge of the infrastructure within their
service areas and pay for O&M of irrigation and drainage infrastructure. The institutional design of
establishing AAs through which beneficiaries will manage irrigation and drainage water will be modeled
after existing organizations successfully operating elsewhere - sometimes for centuries. When newly
establishing such organizations, considerable support is needed for some time (generally 10 to 15 years) in
- 39 -



order to ensure self-sustained operations. The sustainability will increase with increased economic
efficiency of a particular scheme.
Promotion and awareness campaigns under the project will include the importance of paying water
charges for the service provided by DAWE and AAs. The concept that, in close cooperation with the water
users, fees need to be adequately set to allow DAWE to provide a proper service, will be disseminated to
the water users. Failure to do this will mean that needed maintenance will continue to be deferred, which is
not a satisfactory way of doing things and can lead to continued loss of irrigation for various schemes,
despite the efforts under the project to rehabilitate infrastructure, which will be disastrous for the farm
communities involved. The same applies for the service to be provided by AAs within their territory. A
comprehensive financing plan ensuring the full O&M funding will therefore be developed for each
participating AA. These plans will include action programs for the gradual taking over of the financing of
O&M costs by AAs, both within and outside their service areas. The proposed change from contracts
between each user and DAWE or the Village Council to one contract between the AA and DAWE will
simplify the collection of the fees. A number of important triggers relate to this, which will be carefully
monitored at regular periods by Government and the Association (see Section B). Although the full O&M
cost will be determined in the financing plans, phasing will take place over a number of years. This
phasing will take into account the lower needs for maintenance during the first few years after rehabilitation
and also the fact that full incremental incomes will be achieved a few years after rehabilitation works have
been completed.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk                     Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Prices for agricultural products remain      M          Government is committed to reforms in and
competitive;                                            support to the agricultural sector and is
attracting donor assistance for this. It is also
committed to continuing liberalization of the
sector, including establishing policies which
encourage export promotion. In addition, the
project's AA advisors and extension staff from
other projects will encourage farmers to grow
crops which are more profitable, and advise on
marketable crops;
Agricultural inputs are available in          S         At the moment there is lack of credit for the
needed supplies and at competitive prices;              agricultural sector and quality inputs are not
readily available in quantities needed for the
sector. Donor financed projects are assisting
Government in improving this situation,
including improving rural people's access to
credit, providing a basis for a land market and
thus the use of land as collateral, and the
establishment of Credit Unions. It will take time
before all farmers can benefit from this
assistance;
- 40 -



From Components to Outputs
Conducive legislation remains in place;    N         Government has been very receptive to advice
for proper legislation and Parliament has so far
approved all amendments. It is expected that
with proper dialogue necessary legislation will
stay in place for the sustainability of the
irrigation and drainage sub-sectors;
Government to provide sufficient budget    H         Government's record to provide adequate O&M
for the proper O&M of higher order                   budget is very weak and, considering the weak
infrastructure on a continuing basis to              overall budget situation in the country this is
supplement water fees collected from                likely to continue, unless adequate donor funds
users;                                               can be found to supplement government's and
users funds. The project team will have
continuing dialogue and come with facts to
convince government that inadequate funding of
rehabilitated infrastructure will increase the
medium- to long-term needs for the sub-sectors
in excess of what is needed on a continuing basis
to maintain infrastructure;
Farmers are willing to remain AA           M         The project will provide AA awareness and
member after seed money has been                     promotion campaigns and will provide
disbursed;                                           facilitators on a continuing basis to assist AAs.
This should provide strong incentives and social
pressures among farmers to respond. It will
take several years before the seed money will
finish and during that time farmers will be able
to see the need and function of AAs;
There is no government interference in the  M        The concept of users organization being in
management of AAs;                                   charge of the management of common
infrastructure is well accepted within
government, which has realized that AAs are
likely the best solution for the sustainable use of
irrigation and drainage infrastructure.
Government has constraints in the proper
management of higher order infrastructure and
is unlikely to get involved in management of
successful AA operations;
Taxation requirements will not be unduly   M         Training of AAs and ongoing dialogue with
complicated to AAs,                                  government to resolve problems as they arise;
Overall Risk Rating                        s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 41 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
Conditions of Credit effectiveness are:
*   The AA Operational Manual has been completed and agreed with the Association and adopted
by the Borrower;
*   The Project Implementation Plan has been adopted by the Borrower; and
*   The Borrower has taken measures necessary to ensure that AAs are not charged property tax
on irrigation and drainage infrastructure transferred to the AAs under long-term use
arrangements.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions for disbursement are:
-   No withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) Works, until the amendments to the Law on
Amelioration have been enacted, in substance satisfactory to the Association; and (b)
Development Plans, until: (i) the amendments to the Law on Amelioration, in substance
satisfactory to the Association, have been enacted; and (ii) for each AA Sub-project until a
satisfactory Development Plan has been approved by the IDPIU in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Management:
*   Throughout the implementation of the project, the PCC core services team and IDPIU shall be
maintained with staff, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; and
*   Government will maintain, until completion of the project, the PCC Advisory Board with
composition and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
Project Implementation and Review:
*   All irrigation and drainage activities will be carried out in accordance with agreed procedures,
eligibility criteria and terms and conditions;
*   Government will, not later than September 30 of each year, prepare and submit to the
Association for its review and concurrence, an annual work program for the project for the
following calendar year;
*   All measures necessary for the carrying out of the EMP shall be taken in a timely manner;
* Government shall ensure that all proposed AA activities are documented in the AA
Development Plans and are carried out in accordance with the Operational Manual;
*   By March 31, 2003, the Government shall establish a Dam Safety Panel with composition and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association;
* By March 31, 2004, the Government shall prepare a report on the review of options for
DAWE's restructuring, and review the report with the Association by June 30, 2004;
* By March 31, 2004, the Government shall prepare a report on the applicability of the Law on
- 42 -



Amelioration and recommend amendments, if needed, and review the report with the
Association by June 30, 2004, after which actions will be undertaken in line with the agreed
recommendations;
* By September 30, 2004, the Government shall establish a Regulatory Office for AA oversight,
satisfactory to the Association; and
*   The PCC will maintain a financial management system acceptable to the Association. The
project financial statements, SOEs (or PMRs if used as the basis of disbursement), Special
Account and Second Generation Special Accounts will be audited by independent private
auditors acceptable to the Association and on terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
The annual audited statements and audit report will be provided to the Association within six
months of the end of each fiscal year.
Monitoring, Review and Reporting:
* Government will maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the
carrying out of the project and of measures included in the program and the achievement of the
objectives thereof;
*   Government will prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, on or about
March 31, 2004, a mid-term report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient canying out of the
project and the program and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period
following such date, and review this report with the Association, by June 30, 2004, or such
later date as the Association shall request; and
* Government will prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association not later than
six months before the Closing Date of the project, a plan for the future operation of the project.
H3. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
El 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
C 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Draft procurement documents for the Kvemo Alazani headworks and Tashiskari tunnel, with an
aggregate cost estimate of US $2.6 million have been prepared.
A draft Project Implementation Plan has been completed and reviewed by the Association. It is
being finalized by the Borrower and its adoption is an effectiveness condition.
- 43 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
El 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Although OP/BP 10.02 requires that if being financed from IDA funds, audit costs be included
under the definition of operating costs, the client requested, and the task team agreed, that the costs of the
annual audit will be charged to the consultants services category.
Joop Si 5<utjesdijk               j Iseph R. Goldberg      >                 Hu y   nnor
Tea  Leader                        ector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
-44 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GEORGIA: Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:         Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*  Attainment of stronger    *  Contribution to the    *  Agricultural statistics   *  Consistent with Bank's
and more broad-based        agricultural GDP from      and financial statistics;   Mission;
economic growth,           irrigated and drained
resulting in increase in    agriculture;            *  Annual economic
incomes in rural areas;                                reviews;
*  Rural incomes in         *  Agricultural statistics
project areas show          and household poverty
increases over the          statistics;
project life;
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:            (from Purpose to Goal)
*  To revitalize the       *  Water supply or          *  MAF statistics;          *  Supportive
irrigation and drainage    drainage adequate for                                   macro-economic
sub-sectors and to         non-restrictive                                         framework;
develop the institutional  agricultural production                              *  Continued reforms in
foundation for the         (measured in ha);                                       the rural sector,
sub-sectors' long-term                                                             i
sustainability over an  *  Irrigation and drainage                                 indingcopltiono
land privatization,
area of 255,000 ha for     systems within the                                      .          i
the benefit of increased   service areas of AAs                                    improventitutional
.   .                  t                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~environment for private
agricultural production;   properly operated and                                   sector development,
maintained after                                       improved marketing
completion of                                          conditions, and credit
rehabilitation (measured                                availability;
in ha);
* Water users pay for
O&M;
-45-



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators           Montong & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                 Indicators:
*  To increase agricultural   *  Crop yields for wheat,    *  MAF agricultural   *  Continued Government
production and farm        grapes and maize on        statistics;                commitment to reforms
incomes on about           irrigation and drainage                               in the irrigation and
110,000 ha through        schemes increased by at   *  MAF water delivery        drainage sub-sectors;
functional irrigation      least 25 percent from      statistics;
and drainage              pre-rehabilitation levels,
infrastructure;           two years after          *  AA annual reports;
rehabilitation is
completed (measured in   *  Mid-term review report;
percentage);
*  Adequate water supplied   *  Implementation
to AAs as per contract     Completion Report;
with DAWE (measured
in No. of satisfactory
contracts);
*  Distribution of adequate
water to users within
AA territories
(measured in percentage
of total users satisfied);
*  Adequate drainage of
land within the territory
of AAs in drainage
schemes (measured in
ha);-
- 46 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:           Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
*  Irrigation and drainage    *  Flow capacities related    *  Project Monitoring and    *  Prices for agricultural
infrastructure brought      to design parameters of     Evaluation system          products remain
back to fully operational   water or drainage        *  PCC progress reports;       competitive;
condition as per            requirements            *                               Agricultural inputs
requirement for the        (liter/sec/ha);           *  Mid-term review report;     available in needed
command area served by   *  Area supplied with      *  MAF/DAWE records             supplies and at
each system;                adequate water or           and annual reports;         competitive prices;
drainage services       *  IDA supervision reports;
(measured in ha);
*  Reliable and quality AA   *  Water fees set at levels
management of                as agreed in
irrigation and drainage      Performance Plans
systems;                     (measured in No of
AAs);
*  Water fee collection
rates (measured in
percentage);
*  Financial management
of AAs satisfactory as
determined by auditors
and Regulatory Office
(measured in number
of AAs)
*  Timely maintenance of
irrigation and drainage
infrastructure
(measured in ha where
this is achieved);
- 47 -



Hierachy of Objectives           Indiars             Monitoring & Evaluation    Ceitical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
* Irrigation and Drainage (US $17.0 million)         *  Project Management      *  Conducive legislation
Systems Rehabilitation                               Reports;                   remains in place;
and Maintenance:
*  Project Monitoring and    *  Government to provide
a) Rehabilitation of Irrigation  US $11.8 million         Evaluation system;         sufficient budget for the
Infrastructure                                         *  Mid-term review report;    proper O&M of higher
order infrastructure on a
b) Rehabilitation of Drainage  US $2.8 million         *  IDA Supervision            continuing basis to
Infrastructure                                            reports;                   supplement water fees
c) Targeted rehabilitation of  US $2.4 million         *  IDA Disbursement           collected from users;
Infrastructure for National                               reports;                *  Farmers are willing to
AA Program                                                                           remain AA member
after seed money has
been disbursed;
* There is no government
interference in the
management of AAs;
* Taxation requirements
on AAs are not unduly
complicated
*  AA Development and   (US $ 10.76 million)
Strengthening for
Improved Irrigation and
Drainage Management:
a) Support for AAs in the  US $8.8 million
Rehabilitation Program and
National AA Program
b) AA Establishment Program  US $566,000
c) Support for DAWE       US $259,000
d) Dam Safety Action      US $255,000
Program
US $136,000
e) Environmental
Management                US $740,000
f) Training and Study Tours
* Project Management   US $3.9 million
- 48 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
GEORGIA: Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project
The project is designed as an Adaptable Program Credit, to be implemented in three phases over 12
years. The purpose of the program will be to revitalize the irrigation and drainage sub-sectors and to
develop the institutional foundation for the sub-sectors' long-term sustainability for the benefit of increased
crop production, and subsequent improvement of farm family incomes, on an area of about 255,000
hectares (ha). The overall objective of the project is to increase agricultural production by arresting further
deterioration of irrigation and drainage infrastructure and keeping the operable infrastructure functional on
I 10,000 ha, through: (i) establishment and support to AAs that will take over O&M of irrigation and
drainage systems within their service territories; (ii) repair and rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage
infrastructure to improve irrigation water conveyance and distribution and drainage discharge; and (iii)
limited support to DAWE to improve its management of rehabilitated irrigation and drainage
infrastructure. A variety of infrastructure will be rehabilitated, including main, secondary, and tertiary
canal systems, major structures (e.g. headworks, tunnels, bridges, pump stations), road repair, and river
training. Rehabilitation will only take place where AAs have been established and have demonstrated their
willingness to participate in project activities.
The proposed first phase of the APC will cover a 5year period, and will comprise three main
components: (i) Irrigation and Drainage Systems Rehabilitation and Maintenance; (ii) AA Development
and Strengthening for Improved Irrigation and Drainage Management; and (iii) Project Management. A
number of different programs will be implemented, namely a Rehabilitation Program, National AA
Program and AA Establishment Program. The table below provides details of the irrigation and drainage
areas and rehabilitation costs for the various Programs. Details of these Programs and other project
activities are presented in the next sections.
Program                    Command Area    Estimated Cost I/      Cost/ha
(ha)             ($'000)           USS
1. Rehabilitation Program - Irrigation
a) Tashiskari (gravity supply)                       7,500              6,365            849
b) Kvemo Alazani (gravity supply)                    8,550              5,255            615
c) Meskheti (pumped supply)                           280                159             568
Sub-Total            16,330             11,779
2. Rehabilitation Program - Drainage
a) Rioni Choloki (Lanchkuti)                         2,030              1,603            790
b) Rioni Khobi (Chaladidi)                           1,700              1,194            702
Sub-Total             3,730              2,797
- 49 -



3. Targeted Rehabilitation and Maintenance                                 2,437
4. AA Program
Rehabilitation Program                                20,000               2,500              125
National Program                                       40,000               5,000             125
Sub-total             60,000               7,500
TOTAL                80,060              24,513
1/ Includes physical and price contingencies.
Note: The costs in I and 2 in the above table include the design and supervision costs, but exclude the seed money
for the rehabilitation and initial O&M of AA managed irrigation and drainage infrastructure within the command
areas of the schemes selected for full rehabilitation.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$17.00 million
Irri2ation and Draina2e Systems Rehabilitation and Maintenance
e Sub-Component 1A: Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure (US $11.8 million)
This sub-component, part of the Rehabilitation Program, will finance comprehensive rehabilitation
and reconstruction of three irrigation systems that are in a severely deteriorated condition, which threatens
the ability for timely delivery of adequate water to AA service areas. Without this rehabilitation of key
conveyance and distribution infrastructure there will be little scope for AAs to develop into sustainable
organizations as water delivery cannot be guaranteed. Details of the schemes and the proposed works are
as follows:
1.     Tashiskari
The Tashiskari scheme was designed to serve some 11,000 ha supplied from two canals: a main
canal of about 56 km (including a 3.2 km tunnel section at Khashuri and a number of siphons and galleries)
and a canal (named B-1), which branches off the main canal before the tunnel, and is constructed with
elevated flumes (canallettis). Secondary canals branch off these two canals to supply water to the
boundaries of the AA areas. The scheme covers areas of Khashuri and Kareli Districts. During the Soviet
period, the scheme was used for sugar beet production to supply the factory at Agara. Currently, the main
crops are wheat, maize, fruit (particularly apples) and vegetables for home consumption.
- 50 -



The rehabilitation of this scheme comprises repairs to the Khashuri tunnel which is in imminent
danger of collapse; works on the main canal to km 46; and rehabilitation of the secondary networks that are
supplied from the main canal - some 7,500 ha in total of which 1,650 ha in Khashuri District and 5,850 ha
in Kareli District. Only minor works are needed to clean the tail end of the main canal and these will be
covered by DAWE from its maintenance budget. The flow through the tunnel will be restored to 9 m'/sec,
which will assure ample supplies of water to the area beyond it. The B-i canal will be rehabilitated
together with related lower order networks serving an area of about 850 ha in Khashuri District. The B-I
canal is in poor state of repair with hardly any flow possible. The discharge capacity will be restored to
2.5 m /sec, which will be sufficient, in future, to also supply other areas along the canal, that may be
included in future phases of the APC. The rehabilitation of many of the secondary canals that take off
from the main and B-I canals is quite expensive, particularly in the Mokhisi area, where a difficult
topography has resulted in a dense canal network. As part of the contract, the contractor will relocate up to
37 small storage and cattle sheds and latrines, that have been built immediately next to the B-I canal on the
maintenance road, where it passes through Kvishkheti and Khashuri villages. Relocation will be done in
cooperation with the owners of the auxiliary buildings. The total rehabilitation cost for all the above
works, including design and supervision services, is estimated at US $6.37 million. The breakdown of the
major works is as follows (in US $ '000):
Tashiskari Headworks Repair                                      56.5
Repair of Tashiskari Tunnel/Major Structures                   1,341.3
Tashiskari Main Canal Repair                                   1,229.6
Tash. Secondary Canals Rehabilitation                          3,254.4
Engineering Design and Supervision Costs                        483.7
Total Tashiskari Irrigation Scheme Rehabilitation               6,365.6
The average costs for repair of the secondary canals are as follows:
Section                     Year    Area        Cost (US $/ha)
(ha)
Bekanii                       1      1,003           380
Mokhisi                      2       1,389           490
Abisi                        2        342            240
Ptsa                          2       293            305
Tamarasheni/Adzvisi          3       1,479           315
B-l/Kvishketi                3        838            445
Bebnisi/Ruisi                4       2,156           240
TOTAL and AVERAGE                    7,500          345
- 51 -



Cost estimates are based on the following unit costs (exchange rate GEL 2.00 = US $1.00) for
different works (these unit costs apply to the rehabilitation works of the other schemes as well).
Type of Work                                      Unit             Cost (GEL)
Cleaning sediments from earth canal by 0.25 m3     m3                  1.97
capacity bucket excavator
Cutting of canal by ditcher                        m                  0.10
Portable wooden gate                               m2                 14.92
Leveling of excavated earth by bulldozer with 20m  m3                 0.34
displacement
Final earth cleaning by hand                       m3                 4.45
Installation of 325x4 mm steel pipe in trench with  m                 31.96
normal isolation
Monolithic concrete head wall (thickness is 200    m3                130.58
mm)
Paving of the bottom of the canal with stone       m2                 5.92
Concrete lining of the bottom and slopes of canal  m3                 79.64
(thickness is 200 mm)
Sluice Gate                                       ton                1,800.00
Gravel bed                                         m3                 26.85
Construction of brick wall                         m.3                92.71
Installation of d=250 mm valve gate                unit              130.67
Timber for stoplog (thickness is 6 mm)             m3                 93.0
2.    Kvemo Alazani
The Kvemo Alazani scheme consists of a single main canal leading from headworks on the Alazani
river for about 90 km through the districts of Telavi, Gurjaani, Signagi and Dedoplis Tskaro. At intervals
ranging from 400m to 800 m, secondary canals take off from this main canal that supply water to the
boundaries of AA territories. The total designed irrigation command area was originally well over 30,000
ha, but currently the potential command area is considered to be some 22,000 ha, with other areas,
comprising mainly pressurized systems, having gone completely out of operation. The area proposed for
rehabilitation under the project is 8,550 ha, stupplied from the first 40 km of the main canal. The principal
crops in the rehabilitation area are vines, sunflower, wheat, maize, vegetables and melons. In addition,
some fruit (e.g. peaches and strawberries) is grown on small areas.
- 52 -



The proposals for rehabilitation of the Kvemo Alazani scheme can be divided into two parts. The
rehabilitation of the headworks and the main canal are required to assure the regular supply of water to the
whole Kvemo Alazani scheme and to minimize the emergency works that are frequently required to
maintain supplies. Works on the secondary and lower order canal systems are required to ensure effective
irrigation of the new small plots in the area. Proper distribution networks for this scale of irrigated farming
were not required, and hence not established, during the Soviet period. Moreover, the old distribution
networks have now deteriorated. The cost of all the rehabilitation works is estimated at US S5.25 million,
including design and supervision services. The breakdown is as follows (in US $ '000).
Kvemo Alazani Headworks Repair                                 1,265.3
Kvemo Alazani Main Canal Repair                                 480.4
Secondary Canals Rehabilitation                                3,087.1
Engineering Design and Supervision Costs                        421.9
Total Kvemo Alazani Irrigation Scheme Rehabilitation            5,254.7
3.    Meskheti (Georgi Tsminda)
Georgi Tsminda is one of 23 small pumping schemes in the mountainous border area of Meskheti.
It lies some 10-12 km east of Akhaltsikhe town at an altitude of 940-960 masl and with an average yearly
precipitation of 520 mm. The net irrigated area is 280 ha, served by an upper and a lower canal, that are
supplied by a pump with 200 liter/sec capacity. The scheme covers 3 villages, namely Georgi Tsmninda,
Persa and Mugareti. The area produces fine potatoes with good keeping qualities, and apples. Irrigation is
critical to produce good crops, but currently, due to problems with the intake, irrigation is limited.
The rehabilitation will improve the intake on the Mtkvari River, re-excavate 1.2 km of delivery
canal, restore pumping capacity to the upper and lower earth canals, and rehabilitate these canals with their
structures. The total estimated rehabilitation costs are US S159,000 (details below in US $ '000). Farmers
have shown considerable interest in the rehabilitation of the infrastructure and are in the process of
establishing an AA. This project can serve as a catalyst for other, similar small gravity or pumped
schemes in the country, most of which have considerable potential to grow high-value cash crops.
Headworks Repair                                                 19.4
Meskheti Main Canal Repair                                       55.4
Meskheti Pump Station Repair                                     11.8
Meskheti Secondary Canals                                        53.3
Engineering Design and Supervision Costs                         19.5
Total Meskheti Irrigation Scheme Rehabilitation                   159.4
* Sub-component IB: Rehabilitation of Drainage Scheme Infrastructure (US $2.8 million)
I.    Rioni Khobi - Chaladidi
This scheme of 1700 ha is very low-lying with a high groundwater table. It lies immediately south
of the Abasha-Poti road, close to Poti. A pilot drainage scheme of 300 ha, financed by FAO in 1999/2000,
has already been undertaken at the lowest end of the scheme. Current land use in the Rioni Khobi area is
not as intensive as in the Rioni Choloki scheme (see below), partly because of the poorer drainage
conditions and partly because better communications and proximity to the port of Poti provide alternative
- 53 -



income prospects. Nevertheless land owners have shown interest in practicing more intensive agriculture
once the drainage conditions have been improved.
The area designated for the first year rehabilitation works (approximately 600 ha with 8.35 km of
main drain and 12 kmn of collectors) constitutes, together with the FAO pilot area, a self-contained drainage
scheme served by 2 pumping stations, one of which has been rehabilitated by the FAO project.
Approximately 108 ha of land in this area is currently in State hands. Eighty hectares are expected to be
distributed to smallholders in the first year of the project and 28 ha will be retained by the State for
grazing.
The areas to be rehabilitated in years 2 and 3 of the project (1,100 ha) are drained by gravity to a
separate 7 km long main drain. The collectors in this area (total length 28 km) are longer and larger than
those of the first year area and are in worse condition. There is a State holding of 115 ha, most of which is
expected to be kept as permanent grazing, although there is a plan to distribute 11 ha to smallholders in
year 3 of the project after rehabilitation.
The total estimated rehabilitation costs are US S 1.2 million (details in US $ '000 below).
Additional areas of the Rioni Khobi scheme (3870 ha) are to be included in later phases of the program.
Repair of RK Main Drains                                          451.2
Repair of RK Collector Drains                                     452.5
Repair of RK Major Structures                                      60.1
River Training in RK Scheme                                        90.5
RK Pump Station Repair                                             24.6
Engineering Design and Supervision Costs                          114.6
Total Rioni Khobi (Chaladidi) Drainage Scheme Rehabilitation      1,193.5
2.     Rioni Choloki - Lanchkuti
This scheme of 2,030 ha, located about 40 km south of Poti, lies at around 30-50 masl. Climate
and soils are similar to those of the Rioni Khobi scheme. Average annual precipitation is around 2,000
mm. Homogenous brown clay soils cover the area to a depth of 0.9-2 meters with yellowish brown clay
soils below. The scheme is not far from the Black Sea tourist resort of Kobuleti, but the road leading to the
coast is in poor condition.
The area is quite densely populated with most of the villages located along the main road.
Agricultural land in the drainage area lies up to about 5 km from farmers' homes. Citrus and tea were
grown in the area and farmers still have some areas of tea, generally outside the drainage area. The
cropping in the area is now almost exclusively maize. Rather simple moldboard ploughs, cultivators and
drills are used for land preparation and planting. Currently, it is estimated that one third of the land is not
cultivated, including a total of some 191 ha in State ownership.
Previously the scheme involved pumping to keep water levels low enough for citrus. The present
rehabilitation proposal is for gravity drainage. First year works on 630 ha will include the rehabilitation of
3.7 km of main drain and 17 km of collectors. In years 2 and 3, another 1,400 ha will be rehabilitated
using a separate main drain section of 10.5 km and 37 km of collector drains. Further sections of the Rioni
Choloki scheme will be rehabilitated in later phases of the program to reach a total of 8,250 ha. The total
estimated rehabilitation cost under this project is US $1.6 million (details below in US S '000).
- 54 -



Repair of RC Main Drains                                          514.7
Repair of RC Collector Drains                                     692.4
Repair of RC Major Structures                                     130.0
River Training in RC Scheme                                       110.5
Engineering Design and Supervision Costs                          155.4
Total Rioni Choloki Drainage Scheme Rehabilitation                1,602.9
*   Sub-component IC: Targeted Rehabilitation of Infrastructurefor National AA Program (US $2.4
million)
AAs that will participate in the National Program (see below) will receive US $105 seed money per
ha for the rehabilitation or improvement of the infrastructure within their service territories, as well as for
initial O&M of this infrastructure. The service areas start at points where the water reaches or leaves the
boundary of the AA area. It is likely that some of the infrastructure for the supply of irrigation water to, or
discharge of drainage water from, the AA areas requires rehabilitation. Specific bottlenecks are found in
some of these systems, and limit the use of the entire system. This could for example be inoperable gates at
the headworks, broken hydraulic structures, or a section of canal or drain with a major constriction.
Funds will be made available for urgent and crucial rehabilitation of main systems, which will
allow a greater impact of the seed money allocated to AAs under the National Program. To qualify for
financing under this sub-component, works have to demonstrably increase or guarantee water supply at
moderate cost. Works will be selected in the course of the identification of AAs to be assisted under the
National AA Program. DAWE staff will assist the IDPIU and AAs and use their experience with the
operation of the systems and will also perform walk-throughs to confirm the rehabilitation needs.
Project Component 2 - US$10.70 million
AA Development and Strengthening for Improved Irripation and Drainag-e Management
-   Sub-component 2A: Supportfor AAs in the Rehabilitation Program and National Program (US
$8.8 million)
The project will finance rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage infrastructure in AA service
territories and some equipment and initial operation and maintenance costs to AAs in about 20,000 ha
under the Rehabilitation Program and 40,000 ha under the National Program. The typical AA command
area is 500 ha. Financing will be done in accordance with Development Plans to be prepared by each AA.
A Development Plan will describe: (i) the details of the rehabilitation and O&M activities (defined as the
AA Sub-project); (ii) the bill of quantities and cost estimates; (iii) the proposed implementation stages of
the Sub-project; and (iv) the proposed AA contribution to the implementation of the Sub-project.
Development plans will be prepared by AAs, with the assistance from an engineer who will be
contracted by an AA. The AAs may propose a candidate to the IDPIU for approval, or more likely they
will be given by the IDPIU a long-list of potential engineers. The AA can then select and recruit an
engineer of its choice. These engineers will also be involved in design of works and supervision of the
implementation of the activities proposed in the Development Plans.
Upon approval by IDPIU of the Development Plan, the project will provide a total of US $105/ha
- 55 -



seed money in grant financing to AAs, to be disbursed in a number of stages, as determined in the
Development Plan. AAs have to contribute a total of US $20/ha in kind or cash. At least 80 percent of the
seed money will be granted for rehabilitation, while the remainder may be used by AAs for financing of
their start-up needs, such as minor office items, tools for the field operators and minor operational
expenditures. Meetings with AAs under the Rehabilitation Program have already taken place and a great
interest of farmers to join AAs has been noted.
Selection of areas for inclusion under the National Program will be according to various criteria,
including: (i) access to adequate water supply or drainage services; (ii) rehabilitation costs to allow proper
management of systems by AAs in the range of US $105 per ha, having maximum potential impact; (iii)
commitment of farmers in line with the requirement of the Law on Amelioration; and (iv) percentage of
water fees paid is at least 50 percent of contracted deliveries. An evaluation group within IDPIU will be
established to evaluate requests. AAs that are rejected for inclusion under this sub-component will still be
able to benefit from support and training under the Establishment Program and may again be considered for
phase two of the APC.
Each stage will be a complete activity that will improve the management of the irrigation or
drainage networks, such as rehabilitation of structures along a canal, or cleaning of field canals or drains.
Each of the stages will have to be beneficial for the AA; that is, even when next stages are not implemented
or implemented with delay, the investments done will assist the AA in improving the management of their
system. It is envisaged that most of the stages have an implementation period of around 3 - 4 months each.
Credit funds can be advanced to AAs in 120-day second generation special accounts.
The flow of funds can be summarized as follows (details will be in the Operational Manual).
- 56 -



AA Sub-projects Financial Management Arrangements
3. Auth'n to Pay
for Dev Plans
_              __                                                               Center (PC)------------_
Irrigation and Drainage Project          13, 21. Auth'n for tranche      Projects Coordination
Implementation Unit              _  ---rlee----_Center (PCC)
(IDPIU)
12'  ,  '   |                                4. Paymeht order    14, 2&2. Payment
|  F  I  121,  Ifor $5004to AA                                  ordern for tranche
Coitract         Contact                                         to prepafe Dev     relejse to AA
foV.Dev          for Slib-                                            Pla6i
Plan           cprojt                                           __an_                     _
US$ Special Acct
. 1.'19.
Aplficationr    Nv. lb-      I      I_
: to         Dev.        ,       rogress
participate:   Plan +             rtport +                              5. $500( uivalent     I 23.
inproject l S&bF        I       &UF                                     to pr pare.  h
in   kroject  S&jIJF     ' & UF                               D evelopi   ent  Plan  r   acse
_ _ i_ _ _I_ _ __                                                               _ __         eS
8. Payment order for     .           
AA                         Development Plan -               GEL AA (120 day)
______  __   _ _ __ --------       Advance Account
17. Payment order
6. tontract for 7. Dev        16.                                            18. I unds
prgparation of Plan land   kivoice
lbev. Plan   invoice  
'       I          |  _        _~Ir------  Suppliers
Consultant Engineer              9_ Pamn o
_                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~9. Payment tfb
Development Plan
Key:
Flow of funds       Flow of data
- 57 -



Flow of Funds and Implementation of AA Development Plans
Step         Description
1-2          Acceptance of AA to participate in IDCDP project.
AAs will submit applications to the IDPIU to participate in the IDCDP. The IDPIU will
scrutinize the application and ensure, inter alia, that: the AA has been duly formed in
accordance with prescribed AA legislation; and the charter of the AA is in order.
If the application is in order, the IDPIU will enter into an agreement with the AA for the
preparation of a Development Plan.
3-10         Preparation by AA of Development Plan.
After the IDPIU and the AA have signed the agreement for the preparation of a
Development Plan, the IDPIU will instruct the PCC to transfer an amount equivalent to
US$ 500 to the bank account of the AA [list of eligible banks to be agreed upon] in order
that the AA may contract with and pay an IDPIU-approved Consultant Engineer
(normally to be chosen from a long-list of engineers that can be obtained from IDPIU)
for the preparation of a Development Plan. The PCC will effect the payment to the AA
from the Special Account and record a US$ 500 advance given to/receivable from the
AA.
The AA will contract (standard Bank contract for small assignments will be used) with
the Consultant Engineer for the preparation of a Development Plan, and subsequently
design and supervision activities.
Upon completion of a Development Plan acceptable to the AA, the Consultant Engineer
will submit an invoice to the AA and the AA will pay the invoice. (If the contract
stipulates that the preparation of the development plan takes more than one month, the
Engineer can be paid on a monthly basis.) The AA will then forward the Development
Plan together with a Statement of AA Sources & Uses of Funds and the bank statement
to the IDPIU for review and clearance.
- 58 -



Step         Description
11-15        Approval of Development Plan and payment of First Tranche.
The IDPIU will review the Development Plan, to make sure that it is technically sound,
that the cost estimates are realistic and that the different stages of the plan can be
implemented as suggested and will improve the management of the systems, and if
approved, the IDPIU will forward a copy of the Statement of AA Sources & Uses of
Funds to the accounting department of the PCC who will then update the recorded
advance made to/receivable from the AA.
The IDPIU will agree with the AA for the implementation of the Development Plan and
send a copy of the disbursement schedule (i.e. a schedule of anticipated releases for the
agreed implementation stages) relating to each AA contract to the PCC together with an
authorization to pay the first tranche.
The PCC will calculate the net amount payable to the AA (i.e. the amount of the first
tranche less the unused funds as reported in the Statement of AA Sources & Uses of
Funds) and pay the AA from the Special Account. The PCC will record the total
advance given to the AA - equal to the first tranche. The PCC will also record in a
memorandum field the total amount payable to the AA over the life of the sub-project.
16-23        Payment of subsequent Tranches
After each phase, the authorized AA representatives and the AA-employed engineer will
prepare a Progress Report detailing the progress made in the sub-project and confirming
the achievement of the phase. This Report will be reviewed by an IDPIU representative,
who will also check the works carried out. The AA will forward a copy of the Progress
Report, and where appropriate a Completion Certificate (signed by the three parties
referred to above), together with a Statement of AA Sources & Uses of Funds and the
bank statement to the IDPIU for review.
Once the Progress Report has been reviewed and approved by IDPIU headquarters, the
IDPIU will forward a copy of the Statement of AA Sources & Uses of Funds to the
accounting department of the PCC who will then update the recorded advance made
to/receivable from the AA.
The IDPIU will authorize the payment of the subsequent tranche. The PCC will
calculate the net amount payable to the AA (i.e. the amount of the subsequent tranche
less the unused funds as reported in the Statement of AA Sources & Uses of Funds) and
pay the AA from the Special Account. The PCC will record the total advance given to
the AA - equal to the subsequent tranche.
The following additional controls will be in place over the financial management arrangements for
this component:
*  The AAs will maintain accounting books and records in accordance with relevant Georgian
accounting requirements;
*  The AAs will additionally maintain books and records detailing all in-kind contributions;
*  The Statement of AA Sources & Uses of Funds prepared by the AAs will disclose the value of
all contributions made by the AA, including in-kind contributions. The PCC will record these
- 59 -



contributions in the project accounting system and reflect them in the project financial
statements;
*   Except in the case of the advance for the first activity under the Development Plan, the AA's
actual contribution must never be less than 5 percent of the total funds disbursed, including the
advance;
*   The advance to an AA will never exceed USS 20,000;
*   All advances to AAs will have to be accounted for within 120 days; otherwise the AA will be
required to refund all unspent funds to the PCC, together with a Progress Report;
*   The IDPIU, with the assistance of the accounting staff of the PCC, will review the accounting
books and records of all AAs in respect of their sub-projects at least once prior to the final
tranche disbursement and again upon completion of the project; and
*   At the end of each calendar year in which the AAs have received funds from the IDPIU, a
statement of AA sources & uses of funds and a bank statement will be forwarded to the
IDPIU, to be audited by the independent auditors appointed for the audit of the project.
Besides design and supervision support, the project will also provide substantial organizational
support and training to AAs to develop them into sustainable Associations. The IDPIU will arrange for
necessary advice during establishment, and will provide training of AAs in different managerial and
financial topics, aided by short-term training consultants. To provide continuing support after
establishment and rehabilitation, engineers and agronomists will be hired as consultants to provide advice
on irrigation and drainage practices, O&M practices and proper scheme management. Each of these
consultants will cover groups of AAs with a total command area of about 4,000 ha.
*   Sub-component 2B: AA Establishment Program (US $566,000)
The funds for physical rehabilitation are limited and will be spread out as much as possible to
serve as many AAs as possible, while making sufficient impact to allow AAs to properly carry out its
function as manager of infrastructure and serve their members. Even though physical rehabilitation of
infrastructure will be important for many AAs to function properly, it was also determined that in many
schemes establishment of and support to AAs is important as a first step to ensure a certain level of
management of the systems and distribution or drainage of water. Therefore the project will provide
assistance to AAs in about 50,000 ha for their establishment and training in order to develop them into
workable organizations. These AAs will also benefit from engineering assistance to help with O&M needs,
and agronomy advice in irrigation and drainage practices. It is realized that most of the systems managed
by these AAs ultimately need rehabilitation as well. Thus these AAs will be first candidates for support
under the Rehabilitation and National Programs during the next phases of the APC.
* Sub-component 2C: Support for DA WE (US $259,000)
It is imperative that DAWE provides adequate management of the infrastructure that has been
covered under the Rehabilitation Program. The DAWE regional offices generally have sufficient qualified
manpower to carry out this task, but are lacking equipment. Thus the project will support the regional
DAWE sub-units that are responsible for such infrastructure with office equipment and vehicles. This will
ensure that these offices can provide adequate assistance during rehabilitation and afterward for the support
and supervision of the O&M.
The project will also carry out an institutional study of DAWE to review its current set-up and
tasks and to make medium- and long-term recommendations for reorganization and streamlining of its
structure and functions.
- 60 -



* Sub-component 2D: Dam Safely Action Program (US $255,000)
An initial review of four major dams, Algeti, Sioni, Tbilisi and Zonkari, has not revealed any major
dam safety issues. As these are important dams that cover large irrigation areas (although not those
covered under the Rehabilitation Program), the project will commence the implementation of a Dam Safety
Action Program. The focus of the first phase will be on surveys, studies and the preparation of dam
examination reports for the four dams. The dam examination reports will make recommendations on any
needed reconstruction and repairs, including necessary new hardware (i.e. telecommunications and warning
systems, monitoring instrumentation, etc.), to improve the condition and operation of these dams. This will
lead to detailed designs and preparation of bidding documents for carrying out needed rehabilitation works,
which are expected to be included in the second phase of the APC.
* Sub-component 2E: Environmental Management (US $136,000)
The EA provides a detailed EMP, on a scheme-by-scheme basis, and associated costs, to ensure
environmental sustainability of the project. The EMP separates "Issues" and their associated mitigation
measures according to "Construction Phase" and "Operation Phase". For the irrigation schemes, the
"Issues" identified include: management of contaminated soil; improvement of irrigation water quality;
reduction of downstream flows; disturbance of local residents; water and soil pollution by construction
activities; soil and channel erosion; waterlogging and salinization of soils; and leaching of nutrients.
"Issues" in the drainage schemes are similar.
Because of the intermittent nature of the sampling and analysis required, IDPIU will contract
consultants to cany out data collection and monitoring. The project will finance these services from this
sub-component. The IDPIU will have one full-time Environmental Specialist on staff, to monitor and
evaluate the results of the work of the consultants, and to ensure that the mitigation measures in the EMP
are sufficient to ensure environmental sustainability of the project. If the data analysis reveals that the
EMP measures are not sufficient to ameliorate negative environmental impacts, new interventions will be
introduced as needed.
* Sub-component 2F: Training and Study Tours (US $740,000)
Training will be critical for the sustainability of AAs. First of all training will be delivered by
consultants to the IDPIU staff who will be in charge of AA fornation, as well as AA facilitators, engineers
and farm advisors. They will be in turn responsible for AA training and support. Courses to be developed
and conducted will include the following, among others:
Training of Trainers - a series of training of the trainer courses will be developed. The overall
objective of these courses is to develop a cadre of IDPIU staff and AA facilitators that can take
responsibility for the support to AAs. Short-term consultants, e.g. from universities or NGOs, will be hired
for this.
WUA Promotion Seminars - The overall purpose is to introduce the concept of AAs and to explain
the role they will play in the management, operation and maintenance of irrigation systems. Farmers will
be educated that the AA organizational structure will help them develop a sustainable institution to operate
and maintain the infrastructure within their service territories. A series of courses will be developed so that
return visits can be made as needed to develop the knowledge of AA members.
AA Governance and Administration - These courses will be designed for AA Boards and
management staff in order to strengthen their abilities to govern and administer AAs. They will focus on
the skills needed to serve on the AA Board and the requirements for serving as a manager of the AA,
including budgeting, personnel management and office administration.
-61 -



AA Financial Management - These courses will prepare the AA accountant for managing the
financial affairs of the AA. They will include training in using the standardized AA bookkeeping system as
well as estimating AA O&M costs and water charges. The course will also train the accountants about
working with local suppliers and contractors.
AA Operations - These courses will train the heads of the AA operation sections and their
operation staff. Training will include staff management, budgeting, determining water supplies and
estimating water requirements. They will also include material on personnel management and development
as well as staff development. Courses in proper water management and application will be developed for
water users.
AA Maintenance - These courses will focus on irrigation maintenance techniques. They will also
teach techniques on budget estimating and formulation of short- and long-term maintenance programs,
including asset replacement. Courses to prepare contracts to outsource operation and/or maintenance of
irrigation systems will also be developed and conducted to interested AAs.
In addition to these formal courses there will be on-the-job training programs as well as spot
training activities, as requested by AAs or as found necessary by IDPIU or DAWE.
A number of study tours are planned, primarily to countries close to Georgia which have
successful AA operations (i.e. Turkey, Kyrgyz Republic). This sub-component will also provide training
to DAWE staff through IDPIU's Institutional Management Team and Engineering Management Team,
supported by short-term consultants, as needed. Such training includes improved planning of management
and O&M, quality control of repair and maintenance of infrastructure, etc.
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.90 million
Project Management
For agricultural projects financed by IDA and IFAD, the Government of Georgia has established a
Projects Coordination Center for overall project coordination and overall management of project
implementation, in particular the core functions of financial management and procurement. For day-to-day
project implementation, the existing IDPIU, that was established for project planning and design (until
recently called PIC), will be strengthened. Staff that was already hired under competitive procedures, will
continue during project implementation. The work of the IDPIU will be managed by a Project Manager,
who reports directly to the PCC Director. Directly below the Project Manager are two technical teams,
namely: (i) an Engineering Management Team (EMT), headed by a Technical Manager; and (ii) an
Institutional Management Team (IMT), responsible for establishment and operation of AAs, and headed by
an AA Specialist. There will also be a Support team, comprising translators, office assistants, and drivers.
During implementation, the IDPIU will be the focal point for technical assistance (TA).
This component will finance PCC core services staff (after closing of the ADP) and all IDPIU
staff, as well as short-term consultants that will assist the IDPIU with the implementation of the project.
Audit services will also be financed from project funds. Goods for the operation of the IDPIU, including
vehicles and office equipment, are covered under this component as well. Finally, incremental operation
costs will be financed on a declining basis.
- 62 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GEORGIA: Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project
Loail         Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Component                      US $million    US $million    US $million
1. Irrigation and Drainage Systems Rehabilitation and
Maintenance
a) Rehabilitation of Irnigation Infrastructure                     8.42            1.26           9.68
b) Rehabilitation of Drainage Infrastructure                       1.74           0.66            2.40
c) Targeted Rehabilitation of Infrastructure for National AA       1.40           0.60            2.00
Program
2. AA Development and Strengthening for Improved Irrigation
and Drainage Management
a) Support for AAs in the Rehabilitation Program and National      7.56            1.10           8.66
Program
b) AA Establishment Program                                        0.44           0.02            0.46
c) Support to DAWE                                                 0.09           0.15            0.24
d) Dam Safety Action Program                                       0.15           0.10            0.25
e) Environmental Management                                        0.07           0.05            0.12
f) Training and Study Tours                                        0.50           0.14            0.64
3. Project Management                                              2.62           0.81            3.43
4. Project Preparation Facility                                    1.20           0.00            1.20
Total Baseline Cost                                               24.19           4.89          29.08
Physical Contingencies                                            1.42           0.30            1.72
Price Contingencies                                               1.82           0.18           2.00
Total Project Costs                  27.43           5.37          32.80
Total Financing Required                   27.43            5.37          32.80
Note: The individual component totals shown here will not match the indicative financing for each component in
the Component Table in the Description section of the main text of the PAD. This table requires that the cost of
contingencies be separated from the components, and then shown as line items in aggregate. By contrast, the
Component Table in the Description section of the PAD shows totals for each component which include that
component's portion of physical and price contingencies.
Taxes and duties are estimated at US $3.9 million and the total project cost, net of taxes, is US $28.9 million. Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is
93.4% of total project cost net of taxes.
- 63 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
GEORGIA: Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Economic Analysis by Scheme:
A.    Tashiskari
Without project the area downstream of the tunnel, amounting to 6,400 ha (85 percent of
command area) could fall out of irrigation at any time. The tunnel has already collapsed in two locations
and has - after emergency excavations - been supported by wooden beams which are now rotting away. It
is assumed for the analysis that the tunnel will collapse in year 4. This would mean that areas beyond the
tunnel will revert to rainfed cropping pattems. It is likely that these patterns will be much as the current
use of rainfed areas. That is, a larger proportion of wheat, which performs relatively well without
irrigation, and a smaller area of maize, beans and vegetables, which will have very variable performance
depending on rainfall. The area irrigated from the main canal before the tunnel (246 ha) and from B I will
also decline rather rapidly because of the increasingly poor state of the secondaries and other distribution
network leaving only prime areas close to the supply canals under irrigation (maybe 50 ha total after 4 to 5
years).
With project there will be no dramatic change from the cropping patterns now seen on irrigated
areas. However, a modest increase in fruit and vegetables might be expected with full irrigation. Over
time, a more commercial farming outlook is likely to develop with more specialization, but this may take
some years. Full irrigation will be achievable on all the rehabilitated area. AAs will gradually carry out
the on-farm works (tertiaries and farm channels) throughout the scheme to enable them to reach a good
standard of water supply.
The costs of rehabilitation amount to GEL 8.28 million in economic terms: just over GEL 3
million (including engineering costs) for the tunnel and 46 km of the main canal and the remainder for the
distribution and AA network systems. Operation and maintenance costs are estimated as GEL 0.4 million
annually in economic terms. The total annual cost of the rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of the
scheme can be estimated at GEL 1.25 million, incorporating interest at 12 percent. The value of
incremental production from the rehabilitated area at full development is approximately GEL 5.5 million
per year (GEL 733/ha or US $ 367/ha per year).
The net foreign exchange earnings from agricultural production will fall considerably if, as is
likely, areas of wheat are substantially reduced to grow vegetables and other crops with higher domestic
value. If processing industries are not modernized to produce competitive products for the domestic market
(to substitute for items such as imported fruit juices for example) or for export, there is likely to be a net
decrease in the foreign exchange balance. The foreign exchange deficit will be particularly marked while
irrigation and associated yields remain constrained. Assuming that a small proportion of vegetables or
fruits from the scheme will be processed for export (puree, bottled or canned), net foreign exchange
earnings at full development are provisionally estimated to be some GEL 0.I million per year lower.
The economic internal rate of return from rehabilitation of this scheme is 35 percent.
- 64 -



B.    Kvemo Alazani
The rehabilitation of the headworks and the main canal are required to assure the regular supply of
water to the whole Kvemo Alazani scheme. Currently emergency works at the headworks are frequently
required to maintain supplies. Rehabilitation of secondary canals and lower order networks are required to
ensure effective irrigation of the new small private plots in the area.
Without project, irrigation water supplies are expected to decline due to increasing problems in
the canal systems. It is foreseen that the area irrigated will dwindle from an estimated 30 percent of the
command area at present to 20 percent in 2 years' time and to only 5 percent (areas closest to the main
canal) after 5 years.
With project, it has been projected that a slightly increased area will be occupied by vegetables,
melons and other fruits (18 percent compared with 15 percent recorded for farmers with partial irrigation in
1996-98) but overall cropping intensity will not exceed 100 percent. Vines currently occupy over 2,000 ha
of the irrigation area to be rehabilitated and no major change in this area is envisaged with the project.
Wheat and sunflower will continue to be important and will perform better as a result of more secure
irrigation. The value of incremental production from the rehabilitated area at full development is just over
GEL 4 million per year (GEL 471/ha or US $ 236/ha per year). Net foreign exchange eamings, largely
deriving from expected wine sales, and import substitution of vegetable oil, are provisionally estimated at
just under GEL 0.5 million annually at full development. Benefits will also accrue in terms of reduced
operation and maintenance requirements as a result of the rehabilitation of the headworks and main canal.
Less silt will intrude into the canal, slowing the rate of decline in flow for the rest of the scheme. These
latter benefits have not been included in the analysis.
The costs of rehabilitation amount to GEL 7.3 million in economic terms of which about GEL 3
million (including engineering costs) is for the headworks and 40 km of the main canal and about GEL 4.3
million for the secondary and lower-order networks. Operation and maintenance costs are estimated as
GEL 0.5 million annually in economic terms. The economic life of the scheme has been taken as 20 years,
with contingency provision for some reconstruction to repair flood damage after 10 years.
The economic intemal rate of return is 20 percent.
C.    Meskheti (Georgi Tsminda)
The command area is served by an upper and a lower earth canal. The upper canal is 4.8 km long
and serves 238 ha and the lower canal is 2.4 km long and serves 44 ha. The project will rehabilitate the
intake on the Mtkvari River, re-excavate 1.2 km of delivery canal, restore pumping capacity to the upper
and lower earth canals and rehabilitate these canals with their structures. The existing pump will be
overhauled and attached to a new steel pipeline (diameter 426 mm, length 675 m) to deliver 200 liter/sec to
the upper canal. A new pump will be purchased for the lower command area of 44 ha.
In economic terms the capital costs are estimated as GEL 247,000 with a foreign exchange
component of some GEL 56,000. The total annual cost of the rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of
the scheme can be estimated at GEL 49,000, incorporating interest at 12 percent. The value of incremental
production from the rehabilitated area at full development is GEL 352,000 (about GEL 1,248/ha) of which
80 percent derives from potatoes which are considered to be planted on 40 percent of the rehabilitated area.
Yields with improved irrigation are expected to rise from I Ot/ha (rainfed) to 1 8t/ha and with full irrigation
- 65 -



they are expected to reach 25t/ha. In view of increases in production foreseen, the price of potatoes is
expected to moderate from present levels and the price adopted is GEL 200/ton. Located, as it is, on the
railway, transport to markets is relatively easy and cheap. Good returns (just over half the level from
potatoes) can also be expected from apples or other fruits and from vegetables. However, for fruit some
replanting will be required following the breakdown of irrigation over recent years. The net foreign
exchange balance is positive, assuming that a proportion of the potatoes substitute for imports. This will
be particularly interesting if good quality seed potatoes are grown on the scheme.
The economic intemal rate of return is estimated at 61 percent.
D.    Rioni Khobi - Chaladidi
The total land in the scheme area anounts to 1,700 ha (including permanent pasture). Of this, 937
ha are currently farmed.
Without project, the areas of land which are unusable are expected to increase, with farming
activities consequently reduced to only 424 ha at the end of the project period. Blockage of field drains
leads to encroachment of reeds and marsh into the arable area, so that only the middle part of the fields
between two field drains remains arable. This, combined with increasingly difficult access by machines,
results in areas falling into disuse. Within a further 5 years, the area cropped is projected to decline from
55 percent to 25 percent. Uncultivated areas are sometimes used for rough grazing. However, the reedy
land is of little value for forage. The average value generated by this uncultivated land has been taken as
GEL 100/ha.
With project, arable areas will be fully exploited (1,412 ha total, or 84 percent of total area).
Farmers will be able to diversify into some vegetables (8 percent of the area) and produce early potatoes
( 11 percent of the area), as was done in previous times. With earlier access to fields, some double cropping
may even be possible. In addition, farmers will be able to plant forage legumes such as clover or alfalfa to
improve the nutrition of their cattle. Nevertheless, two-thirds of the area is expected to remain under maize
and yields will rise substantially (from 1.6t/ha to 4 t/ha). To achieve these yield increases, however, it will
be necessary to improve the quality of land preparation.
The costs of rehabilitation amount to GEL 1.7 million in economic terms including GEL 0.1
million for river training and GEL 0.25 million for tertiary and on-farm works by the AAs. Operation and
maintenance costs have been estimated as GEL 74,000 annually in economic terms including pumping
costs for about 600 ha. The total annual cost of the rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of the
scheme can be estimated at GEL 0.35 million, incorporating interest at 12 percent. The value of
incremental production from the rehabilitated area at full development is approximately GEL 0.9 million
per year (GEL 527/ha).
The project generates a net foreign exchange loss because machinery costs (both capital and fuel)
are significant and none of the produce from the project is expected to be exported. Indeed, most of the
production is expected to be used for home consumption by local families and their animals. The project
could contribute to import substitution if maize were used for commercial poultry or beef production.
The economic intemal rate of return from rehabilitation of this scheme is 39 percent. If no changes
to cropping patterns are assumed in future (with or without project), the expected increase in productivity
in maize and beans alone will still secure a satisfactory return of 15 percent.
- 66 -



E.    Rioni Choloki - Lanchkuti
The total land in the scheme amounts to 2,030 ha (including pasture). About 67 percent (1,360 ha)
is estimated to be cropped, almost exclusively with maize.
Without project the areas of land which are unusable are expected to increase. Within a further 5
years, the area cropped is projected to decline from 67 percent to 30 percent (610 ha). The average value
generated by uncultivated land has been taken as GEL 150/ha.
With project arable areas will be fully exploited. Because of the higher pressure on land in this
area and the rather better natural drainage, a somewhat larger proportion of the area is projected to be used
intensively for potatoes (14 percent), vegetables (8 percent) and improved forage (20 percent) than in Rioni
Khobi. Almost 60 percent of the area is, however, expected to remain under maize.
The costs of rehabilitation of this scheme amount to GEL 2.3 million in economic terms including
GEL 0.I million for river training and GEL 0.3 million for tertiary/on-farm works by the AAs. Operation
and maintenance costs have been estimated as GEL 81,000 annually in economic terms. The total annual
cost of the rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of the scheme can be estimated at GEL 0.38 million,
incorporating interest at 12 percent. The value of incremental production from the rehabilitated area at full
development is approximately GEL 1.16 million per year (GEL 572/ha).
The project generates a net foreign exchange loss because machinery costs (both capital and fuel)
are significant and none of the produce from the project is expected to be exported. Indeed, most of the
production is expected to be used for home consumption by local families and their animals: The project
could contribute to import substitution if maize were used for commercial poultry or beef production.
The economic internal rate of return from rehabilitation of this scheme is 36 percent. If no changes
to cropping patterns are assumed in future (with or without project) and no increase in cropped area, the
expected increase in productivity in maize and beans alone will still secure a satisfactory return of 18
percent.
F.    AA Development and Strengthening (National Program)
One of the project's main objectives is to establish institutional arrangements which will assure the
successful operation of irrigation networks in the long termn. The benefits of such institution building
cannot easily be incorporated into economic analysis. Nevertheless the direct benefits which may accrue
from the National Program of support to AAs are considered below and a rate of return has been estimated
using parts of the foregoing analysis.
The total cost of the National Program and the targeted intervention of rehabilitation is expected to
be $8.8 million. The national program will support the establishment of AAs in irrigation and drainage
areas and provide seed money for operation and improvement of their distribution and on-farn networks at
the rate of US $105/ha. Farmers will also be expected to contribute the equivalent of US $20/ha, giving a
total investrnent of US $125/ha (GEL 250/ha). Funding during this project period for the National
Program will cover some 40,000 ha. The National Program is expected to be focused principally on
irrigable areas, although drainage schemes are not excluded. These areas will lie in parts of schemes where
water for irrigation is currently available in the main delivery system or where improvements can be
achieved without any substantial program of rehabilitation works. An amount of US $2 million will also be
provided through IDPIU to tackle bottlenecks in such main systems. The direct cost of the National
- 67 -



Program, through seed money, combined with the targeted rehabilitation is estimated to be about US
$200/ha on average.
Estimates of incremental returns from improvements in the amount and timeliness and availability
of irrigation water that the national program is expected to provide, have been made on the basis of the
economic crop budgets and current cropping patterns in Tashiskari and Kvemo Alazani respectively. Net
benefits attributable to improved timing and availability of water are estimated to be GEL 1 80/ha/year in
Tashiskari and GEL I 00/ha/year in Kvemo Alazani. Thus for irrigation areas included in the National
Program it seems reasonable to take a figure for net benefit of GEL 140/ha/year. For drainage areas, the
benefit is likely to be lower, perhaps GEL 100/ha/year or 25 percent of the net benefit of improved
irrigation of maize/beans under full rehabilitation. If we assume that on average the benefit from increased
output as a result of the national program is GEL 130/ha/year, which is conservative and feasible under the
national program, and that the incremental 0 & M costs for the networks under AA management are GEL
20/ha/year, then the overall net incremental benefit will be GEL 110/ha/year. Based on these conservative
assumptions, the economic intemal rate of return to the investments in the national program are therefore
expected to be about 25 percent.
G.    Economic Returns for the Overall Project
The overall rate of return for this project has been calculated as 24 percent. This includes all
project costs except those for Dam Safety and Environmental measures. Economic benefits from the latter
have not been included nor have any which may arise from the Establishment Program.
Experience during the preparation of Phase 1 of the program indicates that it is difficult to predict
in advance the costs and returns from rehabilitation of different irrigation schemes: actual command areas
are not accurately known, nor is the condition of the infrastructure, especially of buried pipes. Portions of
schemes may prove to have deteriorated to an extent that rehabilitation will prove too costly and this will
impact on the average cost per hectare where significant works are required on headworks and main canals.
The irrigation schemes for this project were chosen for the urgency of works required. There are good
prospects that a number of the irrigation schemes intended for inclusion in later phases of the APC will
have at least as good rates of return as those included in this project.
For the drainage schemes, following phases include largely expansion of rehabilitation of the Rioni
Khobi and Rioni Choloki schemes and expansion into areas further inland. The rates of return on these
schemes will depend largely on progress made in assuring commercial outlets for increased output of
maize.
Main Assumptions:
A. Markets for Output
A large proportion of all crops produced by smallholders is currently used for home consumption
and effective demand for produce in rural areas is low because of the low levels of cash and working
capital in the economy. Increased output will partly go to increase the food security of rural, and related
urban communities through informal transfers. An increasing portion will, however, need to be sold on
commercial markets for farmers to gain the cash income needed to pay for machinery services, inputs,
taxes and water charges.
For Georgia as a whole, household food consumption appears to have been declining over the last
- 68 -



three years and the situation is particularly severe in drainage areas in the west and Kakheti in the east.
During 2000 food aid was required. There is little doubt that there is scope for increasing family food
consumption levels from own production of both crops and livestock.
At a national level, Georgia has large deficits in wheat (or wheat flour), sugar, oils and fats.
Another notable deficit is in poultry products. Imports of wheat flour are greatly above those reflected in
the official figures: there is widely known to be significant smuggling to avoid import duties and taxes.
Actual imports are several hundreds of thousands of tons. If local milling is to be encouraged on economic
or other grounds, then it will be prudent to review the incentive environment for the milling industry (e.g.
differential import taxes on wheat vs flour). In any case, measures should be taken to enforce tax and
customs regulations on imports of these products.
Sufficient maize is produced to meet current national demand, and incremental volumes of
production will need to be used for boosting animal feed supplies. An obvious opening will be in the
development of the poultry industry. The program can contribute to import substitution of dairy and
poultry products through production of forage and, particularly in the drainage areas of Western Georgia,
maize. However, there will need to be parallel development in commercial poultry production and feed
milling as well as in dairy products marketing.
A full range of vegetables is grown in Georgia, which has a wide range of suitable climatic
conditions. Overall, current production of vegetables appears to be broadly in balance with domestic
demand, with a modest surplus for export. There will continue to be some openings for exports of
canned/bottled products, particularly to FSU markets, but volumes are unlikely to reach former levels
quickly. New products will need to be developed to penetrate Westem European markets and this will
require technical assistance and building of market contacts.
In 1990, 95,000 tons of fruit together with substantial quantities of canned produce and conserves,
were exported. In earlier years exports of fruit had reached some 210,000 tons. Currently, apple puree
and concentrates are being exported as well as some specialty products such as walnut in syrup and in
1999 fresh apples were exported to Russia on a small scale. Any substantial development of new export
markets is likely to be dependent on a replanting program with varieties and rooting stock which assure
competitive productivity and quality of produce (e.g. taste, processing suitability, storage life). A strategy
for producing organic fruit in designated areas might also pay dividends in the longer term, allowing for
adequate control and certification measures to be put in place. Another strategy might be to identify
leading local varieties with proven market acceptability and to develop an aggressive, coordinated
marketing campaign.
Consumption statistics indicate that around 60 million liters of wine (mostly home made) is
consumed by the Georgian people each year. Most exports are still to the FSU states, but Georgian wine is
gaining wider markets in Western Europe too. Foreign investors have formed joint ventures with local
processors to export both to the FSU and to other countries including Scandinavia, UK and even USA.
However, the Russian market (total consumption 1.2 billion liters/year) offers the most promising volume
market for traditional Georgian wines. Despite competition from other wines on the Russian market now,
the taste for Georgian wines is likely to remain and exports will probably increase. The increase will
depend on income levels in the Russian economy and exports will not reach previous levels in the
foreseeable future. Nevertheless, exports to Russia and to the West are likely to grow steadily.
- 69 -



B. AA Finances
Irrigation
The key to project success is the establishment and operation of AAs in a permanent and effective
manner. The project will provide US $105/ha seed money to establish the AAs and support rehabilitation
of distribution networks such that water can reach members' fields. In collaboration with the Institutional
Management Team (IMT), who are currently working with AAs in the pilot areas, the establishment and
operating costs for a typical 500 ha under AA management have been estimated.
Establishment costs for an AA, including office equipment and registration, are estimated at GEL
3,500. In addition, an AA will need to fund the bulk of its first year's administration and operating costs
before it is able to recoup these from charges to members. Actual costs will depend on the internal
arrangements that AAs make with their officers. However, there are likely to be some items of expense
(e.g. stationery, fuel/travel, electricity) that must be met and it is assumed that members will be asked to
contribute to meet these costs, as well as any first year salary payments as may be agreed in assembly
meetings.
As much of the seed money as possible should be used for rehabilitation to assure supply of water
to the fields. Once water is being delivered, membership fees and charges can be levied. By the end of the
first season's operation, the AA should have funds to pay key staff, such as pump operators and
accountants for succeeding years.
Maintenance costs, comprising only those works which involve contract or cash payment, have
been estimated at GEL 15/ha/year. The true amount required for maintenance of the infrastructure will
vary according to the structures involved. It is likely that AAs will try to minimize cash outlays and will, in
particular, seek to obtain labor and other contributions in kind from members.
At this stage, the question of taxation of AAs is not entirely clear. Membership fees are generally
not subject to VAT or for calculation of profit tax. This is one reason why AAs may find it beneficial to
split fees to members between membership fees and water charges. However, according to present law,
water charges to non-members may not be more than double those for members. Under such conditions,
some careful consideration will be needed to set membership fees and water charges at levels which will:
*   minimize the tax burden; and
*   minimize the total cost to the farmer;
and at the same time
*   maintain the incentive for farmers to join the AA as members; and
*   assure sufficient sales of water to cover operating and maintenance costs.
An illustrative example of an AA cash flow has been developed where it is assumed that 80 percent
of the AA area is occupied by members and two irrigations will be made. If membership fees are set at a
level which covers the administrative and operating costs of the AA, (equivalent to approximately GEL
20/ha) then a volumetric water charge of GEL 7.5 per 1,OOOm to members will be sufficient to cover AA
maintenance costs, assuming that non-members will purchase 2 irrigations at GEL 15 per 1,OOOm.
However, under this arrangement, non-members will be receiving an irrigation service at lower cost than
- 70 -



members (GEL 30/year as opposed to GEL 35/year for members; as per Law on Amelioration,
non-members cannot be charged more than double fees).
This relationship could be reversed by reducing the membership fee and increasing the volumetric
water charge to members and non-members. This is, however, likely to reduce the amount of water sales to
non-members. It will also expose the AA to the likelihood of extremely variable income flows, depending
on climatic conditions and hence demand for irrigation from year to year. It might also increase the AA's
liability to VAT and to profit tax.
An altemative is to split water charges for non-members into a flat rate charge per hectare together
with a volumetric charge. Members will still pay GEL 35/ha/year for irrigation and non-members will pay
a total of GEL 45/ha/year (a GEL 15/ha flat rate charge plus GEL 15/1 ,000m3). Under this arrangement
there will be a greater possibility of building up reserves to continue with rehabilitation work. To promote
stability of income, a sliding scale for non-members could be introduced with the lowest charges for those
committing themselves to irrigation at the beginning of the season and higher charges (up to the maximum
of double charges for members) as the season progresses.
Charges for each AA will need to be set and reviewed in the light of operating and rehabilitation
requirements, number of members and the likely uptake of irrigation. Most AAs will need assistance in
costing and forward financial planning and in presenting their proposals to members. There is likely to be
some resistance to the higher charges for irrigation but members must be made to realize that if they are to
continue to achieve secure and increased production there is scarcely an alternative.
Drainage
The costs for AAs in drainage areas will be similar to the irrigation AAs. There will be fewer
structures for repair than on the irrigation schemes, but there is likely to be more accumulation of sediment
in the water courses and clearing and cleaning of drains is likely to be more onerous than the maintenance
of irrigation channels. A higher proportion of mechanization is likely to be required.
Provisional estimates of AA costs and cash flow have been developed. Annual administration and
operating costs are taken as GEL 6,000. Contract and cash costs of maintenance of the tertiary channels
are taken as GEL 15/ha. Some additional voluntary labor will probably also be required from members.
Those unwilling to contribute to joint AA maintenance work may be treated as non-members. In the
illustration, a charge of GEL 27/ha for members and GEL 55/ha for non-members will be required to cover
the costs of the AA.
C. Returns to Typical Farmers
Most farners on the schemes to be rehabilitated have between 0.25 and 1.25 ha. Models have
been devised for land holdings of 0.8 ha and 0.5 ha in Kvemo Alazani and 1.2 ha and 0.5 ha in Tashiskari.
The average size of farm on the Georgi Tsminda scheme is taken as 0.6 ha and, for the drainage schemes
1.0 ha is taken for Chaladidi and 0.5 ha for Lanchkuti, all on the basis of information on areas and
numbers of private farmers provided by the IMT team.
Incremental returns over the current (without project) situation are summarized below. Note that
some farmers will be able to move from rainfed production to irrigated production as a result of the project
(WiP - Rainfed) and some farmers will be able to improve the level of their irrigation (WiP - Part
- 71 -



Irrigation).
Summary of Incremental Returns to Farmers With Project
Farm Model           Total                 Incremental net revenue (GEUyear)
area
(ha)             WiP - Rainfed         WiP - Part Irrigation
Kvemo Alazani A       0.8                    708                     406
Kvemo Alazani B       0.5                    513                     287
Tashiskari A          1.2                    1,495                   931
Tashiskari B          0.5                    693                     353
Meskheti              0.6                    1,653                   462
Rioni Khobi -         1.0                               1,419
Chaladidi
Rioni Choloki -       0.5                                784
Lanchkuti
The net revenues include all costs of production, including paid labor for harvest in the case of
vegetables, potatoes, vines and fruits (details in the Agronomy report that is in project files). In fact, the
total labor requirements for such small holdings with mechanization are rather modest and peak labor
requirements are more likely to be met by family members and informal arrangements with neighbors than
by paying laborers. Nevertheless the net revenues from the smaller holdings are insufficient to assure
minimum living standards for a family. With the project families will be better off, but far from
prosperous. Total net revenues from irrigated land with-project and net of land tax, AA, irrigation or
drainage charges have been estimated as follows.
Most families will supplement production from their irrigated plot by keeping livestock (poultry, pigs or
cattle).
Summary of Net Revenue
Farm Model            Total     Average                   Total net revenue
area     Irrigation
Requiremen
t
(ha)       (m3)                       (GEL/year)
Kvemo Alazani A        0.8        900                           954
Kvemo Alazani B        0.5        600                           682
- 72 -



Tashiskari A           1.2        3,800                         1,962
Tashiskari B           0.5        1,900                          982
Meskheti               0.6        1,300                         1,795
Rioni Khobi -          1.0          -                           1,831
Chaladidi
Rioni Choloki -        0.5                                      1,034
Lanchkuti
As the table below indicates, the charges proposed for the AAs and for payments to DAWE
amount to only a small proportion of the incremental and total returns from the rehabilitation and seed
money to be provided by the project.
Water Charges as Percent of Net Revenue
Total Irrigation/       As % of Incremental (Total)
Farm Model             Total      Drainage                     Net Revenue
area       Charges
(ha)      (GEL/year)                    (GEL/year)
Kvemo Alazani A         0.8          41                          6% (4%)
Kvemo Alazani B         0.5          26                          5% (4%/o)
Tashiskari A            1.2          75                          5% (4%/)
Tashiskari B            0.5          34                          5% (4%)
Meskheti                0.6          50                          3% (3%)
Rioni Khobi-            1.0          50                          3% (3%)
Chaladidi
Rioni Choloki -         0.5          25                          3% (3%o)
Lanchkuti
However, they will add significantly to cash costs faced by farmers. Currently farmers consume
most of what they produce and they will in future need to make greater cash sales in order to meet their
increased cash costs. At present farmers probably spend between GEL 100 and GEL 200 per hectare per
year on mechanized services, inputs and other items. Land tax is generally between GEL 20 and GEL
40/ha. Hence cash demands on farmers are set rise significantly.
- 73 -



Economic Analysis
General Assumptions:
For the economic analysis, benefits from increased agricultural production have been calculated
using border prices for products which Georgia is expected to trade internationally. Machinery services
have been valued to ensure cost recovery of equipment purchased from the ex-CIS or from Turkey. Diesel
has been valued at GEL 0.30/liter to exclude taxes and allow for projected changes in oil prices to 2010.
Generally, the costs for tractor field operations are about GEL 20/hour. Mowing and baling are about
GEL 28/hour, and combine harvesting GEL 62/hour. Hourly output rates of ex-CIS machinery are rather
low. Machinery output rates are also adversely affected by the small size of plots. Inputs have also been
valued at border prices as appropriate. Nitrogen fertilizers are exported from the plant at Rustavi, hence an
export parity price has been used, but generally import parity prices have been estimated. Labor has been
shadow priced at GEL 4/person day - or at approximately half of the current daily wage rate - to allow for
the low levels of employment throughout Georgia.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The economic analysis above is based on assumptions for yields and current prices which are both
considered to be depressed due to the prevailing economic climate. In all cases, the schemes were
economically viable. Further, even if the yields are only increased to 75 percent of the rate assumed above,
or the investment costs increase by 25 percent, all schemes still have rates of return higher than the
discount rate (12 percent).
- 74 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GEORGIA: Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project
Year1     YearI        Year 3   Year 4     Year 5  f Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            6.5        8.0        8.5        5.9        3.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.1        0.2         0.2        0.2       0.2        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs           6.6        8.2        8.7        6.1        3.2        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               6.6        8.2        8.7        6.1        3.2        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   4.9        6.5         7.6        5.5       2.5        0.0        0.0
Government                 1.6         1.5        0.8        0.3       0.4        0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Beneficiaries              0.1        0.2        0.3         0.3       0.3        0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      6.6        8.2        8.7        6.1        3.2       0.0        0.0
- 75 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
GEORGIA: Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project
Procurement
General: Procurement of works and goods will be done in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999). The Borrower will use the Bank's standard bidding documents for
goods and works, including the Bank's regional sample documents, as well as the standard evaluation
reports. Consulting services will be procured in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines - Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999). For the consulting assignments the Borrower will use the relevant Bank's standard forms of
contract and standard evaluation reports. Any goods, works and services not financed by the IDA will be
procured in accordance with the National Public Procurement Legislation, or, where applicable, according
to the procurement procedures of co-financiers. The General Procurement Notice has been published in the
April 16, 2001 issue of the United Nations 'Development Business'.
Procurement responsibilities: Responsibility for procurement will rest with the core services team
of the Projects Coordination Center, which will work closely with the Irrigation and Drainage Project
Implementation Unit. The team is already in place, and staffed with national experts recruited on
competitive basis. They are also in charge of procurement for ADP and ARET. The team includes one
procurement officer and one procurement assistant who worked until recently directly within the structure
of the predecessor of IDPIU, the Project Implementation Center, which was responsible for the preparation
of the project. Before joining the project staff, the procurement officer had acquired some experience in
procurement during assignments with intemational organizations and firms. He has recently gained more
experience during project preparation. The implementing agency has, to-date, performed satisfactorily
during project preparation. Even though these procurement staff have moved to PCC, they will continue to
have main responsibility for procurement for the project.
An assessment of PCC's capacity to implement project procurement in accordance with the criteria
outlined in Annex 3 of the LACI Implementation Handbook was completed. This review addressed the
legal aspects, procurement cycle management, organization and functions of the procurement unit in the
PCC, support and control systems, record keeping and staffing. The review assessed the risks
(institutional, political, procedural, etc.) that may negatively affect the ability of the PCC to carry out
procurement processes. Georgia has a public procurement law which is based on principles of economy,
efficiently and transparency. Nevertheless this is a "high risk" country from the procurement point of view.
There are two reasons for this: (i) it will take some time before the provisions of the procurement law are
translated into practice; and (ii) the economic atmosphere in the country in which the law operates is not yet
conducive to fair and transparent procurement processes.
In collaboration with the implementing agency, an action plan has been prepared to strengthen
PCC's capacity to administer procurement of the project in an effective and transparent way. This
includes: (i) the procurement officer will have to participate in at least one intemational procurement
training course to enhance his knowledge of procurement, before project effectiveness (the officer has
already been cleared to participate in the Works Procurement Management Course to be held by ILO in
Turin in May - June, 2001); (ii) a procurement book containing all of the Bank's standard procurement
documents will be provided to the PCC immediately after Board presentation; (iii) the project launch
workshop, planned for September 2001, will devote adequate time to updating the PCC staffs procurement
- 76 -



skills and explain in detail the contents of the procurement book; (iv) during the first two years of project
implementation, three visits by a procurement-accredited staff will be made to provide guidance and advice
to the PCC and conduct ex-post review; (v) a minimun of I in 5 contracts representing different
procurement methods will be reviewed on an ex-post review basis; (vi) the PCC will establish a
computerized procurement monitoring system; and (vii) information regarding procurement administration
will be collected and recorded in quarterly reports to be sent to the IDA. These reports will also indicate:
(i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project; (ii) revised timing of procurement
actions and completion time; (iii) an updated procurement plan (every second report); and (iv) compliance
with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The project will include procurement of Works, Goods and Services. A detailed procurement plan
for these needs has been prepared and included in the Project Implementation Plan. During project
implementation, the procurement plan will be updated every six months. The procurement arrangements
are described in the following paragraphs, which also indicate the applicable thresholds (the aggregates are
given in the footnotes in the table A at the end of this Section).
Civil Works: The project will carry out rehabilitation works on irrigation supply and distribution
systems, and drainage amelioration systems, throughout Georgia. The rehabilitation is composed of: (i)
major works, such as rehabilitation of a conveyance tunnel, headworks, and cleaning of main and
secondary irrigation and drainage channels; and (ii) rehabilitation and reconstruction of tertiary and lower
order irrigation and drainage networks.
International Competitive Bidding (1CB). All civil works estimated to cost more than US
$250,000 per contract will be procured according to ICB. This includes large works such as the Tashiskari
tunnel and the Kvemo Alazani headworks, which are estimated to cost between US $1.1 million and US
$1.4 million each. For some of the other larger contracts to be implemented during short construction
periods (e.g. a main canal that can only close for short periods during the year or works in a river that has
regular floods), ICB packages may be split up according to the Slice and Package method. This will have
to be agreed in advance with the IDA task team.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Works estimated to cost between US $100,000 and US
$250,000 shall be procured through National Competitive Bidding. ECA sample NCB bidding documents
will be used. The procedures to be followed for national competitive bidding shall be those set forth in the
Public Procurement Law of Georgia. Clarifications required for compliance with the provisions of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" have been provided in the Development
Credit Agreement.
Minor Works. Works valued at less than US $100,000 per contract shall be procured through
Minor Works, based on at least three quotations. The invitation to quote shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award of contract
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
During preparation, a number of consultations and field visits indicated that there are a sufficient
number of contractors with adequate capacity (equipment, machinery and operators) to carry out the civil
works contracts envisaged under the IDCDP. Many of the construction works planned under the project
- 77 -



will be relatively simple and straightforward, comprising mainly earthworks and concrete works, and
sufficient interest and capacity is envisaged to provide a competitive environment.
Goods: The goods to be financed in the project will include vehicles, office equipment, and
furniture. Goods contracts estimated to cost US $100,000 or more will be procured through ICB.
International Shopping (IS), based on a comparison of quotes from at least three suppliers from two
eligible countries or alternatively a quote from IAPSO of the United Nations, will be used for contracts
estimated to cost between US $50,000 and US $100,000 per package. National Shopping (NS) procedures
will be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US $50,000 each, to be awarded on the basis of three
written price quotations from local suppliers.
Consultant Services: Staff of the PCC and IDPIU will be hired as individual consultants. In
addition, individual consultants, both local and intemational, will be recruited to provide short-term
specialized technical assistance to the IDPIU and AAs, as well as provide assistance for the preparation of
the second phase of the program. All individual consultants will be selected in accordance with Part V of
the Consultants Guidelines, and national consultants, including PCC and IDPIU staff, cannot be civil
servants. The PCC will be responsible for the recruitment of all consultants, which will be done on a
competitive basis. For most positions to be filled by Georgian nationals, standardized terms of reference
will be prepared by the IDPIU, to be approved by the IDA. The PCC will advertise the positions in
national and regional newspapers, after which a long-list will be prepared by the PCC. The bid committee
(composed as a minimum of the IDPIU Project Manager, PCC Procurement Specialist, and representatives
from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and Ministry of Finance) will select the most qualified
candidate for each position.
Engineering Design and Supervision Services for the works to be carried out under the
Rehabilitation Program will be procured through QCBS. Most of these services can be carried out by
national consulting firms and those contracts with an estimated value of less than US $200,000 each can be
procured with participation of national firms only. The contract for environmental monitoring will also be
procured according to QCBS. An audit firm will be procured through Least-Cost Selection.
Community Participation in Procurement. Procurement of contracts for rehabilitation of
infrastructure under the management of Amelioration Associations (AA) will be carried out by AAs.
'Community Participation in Procurement' considerations, broadly described in Clause 3.15 of the
Guidelines, underpin AA responsibility for procurement of such small works. "Seed money" of US $105
per hectare, (see the Description Section and Annex 2), will be provided to AAs in order for them to
implement the works within their command area. It is planned that the seed money will be channeled in a
controlled manner through the AA's account, with decreasing oversight and assistance from the IDPIU over
time. Initially, the AA will engage an engineer approved by the IDPIU and financed from the seed money.
For this a US S500 advance will be provided to the AA. The AA engineer- after proper training by the
project - will prepare a development plan for the AA's command area, divided into clear implementation
stages, as well as a procurement plan. The procurement plan will indicate the AA's obligatory contribution
for each stage, as well as any additional AA contribution. It is estimated that none of the stages will have a
value exceeding US $20,000, and many of the works will be small, such as repair of field canals,
construction of earthen canals, repair of smaller hydraulic structures. Both the development plan and the
procurement plan will be approved by the IDPIU. The total funding to be provided to AAs is US $6.3
million.
Each AA will have a Project Management Committee (PMC) staffed with rotating members, which
is responsible to the Board of Directors of the AA for procurement. The PMC will be responsible for
- 78 -



procuring goods, works and services locally to ensure minirnal delays and cost effectiveness. Examples
include hiring skilled artisans and small contractors, as well as materials such as cement and gates. Where
possible, PMCs will obtain three priced quotations and select the artisan/contractor or supplier with the
lowest cost who fulfills the requirements. IDPIU staff will provide advice to these committees, as and
when needed, and will also provide standard documents and contracts for use by the PMC. To ensure
transparency, all AA members will have access to the procurement infomiation and financial data of
contracts. The activities will be audited by an audit committee that is established within each AA and also
at random by the AA regulatory office. IDPIU staff will carry out ex-post review of contracts carried out
by AAs, not only regarding procurement, but also technical and financial aspects. More specific
procurement and financial management rules will be outlined in the Operational Manual.
Training: Training and study tours will be carried out according to a training plan, which the PCC
will revise semi-annually and submit to the IDA for approval prior to implementation. The total training
budget is US $740,700.
Incremental Operating Costs. The project will finance incremental operating costs for the PCC
cores services team and IDPIU, incurred as a result of project implementation. These costs will be
procured on the basis of an annual budget to be agreed with the Association.
- 79 -



Table A. Procurement Arrangements (US $000)
intetnational       National
Competive         Compedtive         Other               N.B.F.
Bidding           Bidding                          (Beneficiaries)         Totai
A. Civil Works                          12,850.0           1,842.0        1,150.0                                15,842.0
(10,280.0)         (1,474.0)        (920.0)                               (12,674.0)
B. Goods
1. Vehides                                                      -          202.4 a                                  202.4
(202.4)                                 (202.4)
2. Office Equipment                           -                             309.0 u                                 309.0
(279.0)                                (279.0)
C. Community Participation                                                6,700.0                1,200.0          7,900.0
(6,135.0)                               (6,135.0)
D. Services
1. Technical Assistance to IDPIU,
DAWE and AAs                                                              1,262.0 '                    _          1,262.0
(1.005.0)                               (1,005.0)
2. IDPIU and PCCCST staff and AA
Support Techniriansr                                                      2,093.0                      .          2,093.0
(2,093.0)                               (2.093.0)
3. GOG Employer Contribution                  -                 -           650.0                      .            650.0
to Social Funds                                                        (650.0)                                 (650.0)
4. Training                                                                 740.7                                   740.7
(740.7)                                 (740.7)
5. Environmental Management                                     -           136.0"                     -            136.0
(109.0)                                 (109.0)
6. Audit                                                                    100.0                                   100.0
(80.0)                                 (80.0)
7. Design and Supervision Engineers                                       1,387.0                                 1,387.0
(1,110.0)                               (1,110.0)
E. Incremental Oprating Costs                                              945.0                                    945.0
-         (730.0)                                 (730.0)
F. Project Prepaation Facility                -                 -         1,200.0                      -          1,200.0
(1,200.0)                               (1,200.0)
Total Project Cost                     12,850.0            1,842.0       16,875.1                1,200.0         32,767.1
Total IDA                             (10,280.0)         11,474.0)      (15.254.1)                     -        (27.008.1)
% IDA                                     80%               80%            90%                     0%              82%
% Type of Project Cost                    39%                6%             52%                    4%              100%
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
\1 Minor Works.
\2 International Shopping.
\3 IS = $159,000; NS  $ 5150,000; indudes office equipment for IOPIU and DAWE Regional Offices.
\4 The category -Community Particapabon' refers to direct procurement by AAs for carrying out avil works on tertiary and on-farm imigation and drainage systems.
The total amount includes about US $300.000 unallocated.
\5 Individual Consultants.
t6 Individual Consultants.
\7 Social Fund payments based on aggregate of all local staff salaries from all project components.
\3 Training and study tours sha8 be carmed out according to a training pian, which the PCC will revise semni-annually and submit to the IDA for approval pnor to implementation.
\9 CCBS; one contract.
110 Least-Cost Selection; one contract for project durabon, subject to annual satisfactory perfonmance.
\11 tCBS; six contacts (US $1,175,000) and Individual Consultants (US$212,000).
- 80 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS      SF8      LCS       CQ     Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost'
A. Firms                1.31     0.00    0.00    0.10      0.00     0.00     0.00      1.41
(1.05)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.08)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (1.13)
B. Individuals          0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     3.57     0.00      3.57
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (3.27)   (0.00)    (3.27)
Total  1.31     0.00     0.00    0.10      0.00     3.57    0.00      4.98
( (1.05)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.08)   (0.00)   (3.27)   (0.00)    (4.40)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All ICB contracts for civil works (>US $250,000 per contract) will be subject to prior review by
the Association. Also the first three works packages of NCB (<US $250,000 per contract), the first three
works packages of MW (<US $100,000), and the first package of each IS (<US $100,000 per contract)
and NS (<US $50,000 per contract) will be subject to the Association's prior review. This will include all
documentation, including bidding documents, evaluation report and draft contracts.
For consultant services, prior review by the Association will be required for all terms of reference
irrespective of estimated contract value. Consulting firm contracts estimated to cost more than US
$100,000 will be subject to the Association's prior review (review will include the Request for Proposals,
the Terms of Reference, short-list, results of evaluations and draft contracts). For contracts with individual
consultants costing US S25,000 or more the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of
employment will be furnished to the Association for its review and approval. Contracts procured through
Least-Cost Selection will also be subject to prior review. All other contracts will be subject to ex-post
review by the Association on a random basis.
Any training related expenses (tuition, fee, transportation, per diem and trainers' fee) will require
prior approval.
- 81 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)    I         Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                        >250                     ICB                     12.85
<250                    NCB                      0.40
<100                    MW                       0.25
2. Goods                        <100                      IS                      0.1
<50                     NS                      0.05
3. Services                     Firms                   QCBS                     1.30
Individuals                IC                      2.00
Audit Services               LC                      0.10
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous                                                        _
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US S17.05 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 8 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits).
- 82 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed IDA Credit of US$ 27 million equivalent will be disbursed over a period of five years.
Procurement is expected to be completed by October 31, 2006. The proposed closing date for the project will
be April 30, 2007. Table C below shows the allocation of the Credit proceeds.
"Seed money" (see the Description section) will be provided to AAs on a grant basis in order for them
to implement the rehabilitation and O&M works within their command areas. It is planned that the seed
money will be channeled in a controlled manner through the AA's account (120-days second generation special
accounts), with oversight and assistance from IDPIU staff. As indicated above, a development plan and
procurement plan will be prepared for the works to be carried out within an AA managed area in a number of
well defined stages. The plan presents the uses of the US $105 per ha seed money and US $20 per ha
equivalent AA contributions, either in cash or in-kind. The overall plan is defined as the sub-project. IDA will
disburse 80 percent of the expenses for these sub-projects, i.e. the aggregate of the seed money and AA
contribution. The plan will indicate the AA's obligatory contribution for each stage. After approval of the
plan by IDPIU, funds to cover the first phase of the plan will be disbursed to the AA account. Satisfactory
completion of a phase and confirmation by IDPIU staff of the proper accounting by AA of the funds spent will
trigger the disbursement of the seed money to be used for the next stage of the development and procurement
plan. Accounting will take place through an intemal audit of the funds used at community level as well as the
contribution provided by AA members (either in kind or monetary). The responsibility of the audit and signing
of completion certificate will rest with a team including the authorized AA representative, the AA's
construction supervisor and a regional IDPIU staff. IDPIU staff from the central office will carry out ex-post
review of contracts carried out by AAs, not only regarding procurement, but also technical and financial
aspects. To ensure transparency all AA members will have access to the financial data of contracts, while
there will be audits by an audit committee that is established within each AA and also at random by the AA
regulatory office.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Catego          Amount in US$milfion          Financing Percentage
(1) Works                                  11.50                       80 percent
(2) Development Plans                       5.70                       80 percent
(3) Goods                                   0.45          100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100
percent of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs) and 80 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured
locally
(4A) Consultant Services, including         1.60                      80 percent
Auditing Services
(4B) Training and Study Tours               0.60                      100 percent
(5) Project Management Services             2.40                      100 percent
(5) Incremental Operating Costs             0.75          80 percent until December 31, 2004 and
70 percent thereafter
(6) Refund of PPF                           1.20
(7) Unallocated                            2.80
Total Project Costs                        27.00
Total                                      27.00
- 83 -



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Project funds will initially be disbursed under the Association's established procedures.
Disbursements made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be as follows for each
expenditure category: (a) goods under contracts costing less than US $100,000 each; (b) works under
contracts costing less than US $250,000 each; (c) services under contracts less than US $100,000 each for
consulting firms and less than US $25,000 each for individual consultants; (d) community development
plans; (e) training and study tours; (f) audit fees; and (g) incremental operating costs for PCC core services
team and IDPIU, under such terms and conditions as the IDA shall specify. For the AA sub-projects the
SOE will indicate the type of activity that has been funded, the beneficiaries, the total amount of the
sub-project, the disbursement amount on a particular SOE and the cumulative disbursement. Supporting
documentation for SOEs, including completion reports and certificates, will be retained by the Borrower,
be made available to the Association during project supervision and be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association. Disbursements for expenditures above these thresholds will be
made against presentation of full documentation relating to those expenditures. During the project launch
workshop there will be a session on proper preparation of withdrawal applications, including the
preparation and submission of needed supporting documents.
As indicated, Credit funds will initially be disbursed on the basis of established procedures,
including Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), and a move to PMR-based disbursements will be considered
once the PCC is familiar with the project's monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce sufficiently
timely and reliable PMRs. See also discussion below on financial management.
Special account:
The PCC that has been established in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food with the responsibility
of providing overall project management and core services support, will serve this project administratively
for financial and disbursement matters. The PCC will open and manage a Special Account specifically for
this project, in a bank acceptable to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure and attachment in the case of a commercial bank. The total authorized allocation will be US
$1,000,000. At project start, the initial allocation to the SA will be limited to US $500,000. When total
disbursements from the Credit, plus outstanding commnitments, equal or exceed SDR 6,000,000 equivalent,
the total authorized allocation will be made available. Withdrawal applications for the replenishments of
the SA will be sent to the Association at least every three months, or when the balance of the SA is equal to
about half of the initial deposit or the authorized allocation, whichever comes first. The SA will be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association (see below).
IDA funds towards the financing of development plans will be transferred in stages by the PCC
into AA managed second generation special accounts (see Annex 2 for more details). It is expected that
about 120 second generation special accounts will be opened during the life of the project and that about
US $6 million will flow through these decentralized accounts.
Financial Management:
Financial Management Assessment: The PCC, as the successor of the PCU, will be responsible
for the financial management of the project, as the PCU currently is for the Project Preparation Facility.
The financial management arrangements of the PCC satisfy the minimum requirements of the Association
for the purposes of the project. The accountant who has been assigned for the accounting of the IDCDP,
-84 -



together with the existing complement of PCC accounting staff, are experienced in general accounting and
also in IDA-specific financial management and disbursement matters; the PCC's financial systems in terns
of accounting procedures and internal controls which are being applied to the PPF are satisfactory and
appropriate for the project; the PCC's accounting manual has been reviewed by IDA and the PCC's
independent auditors and was found to be satisfactory; the draft CY2000 audited project financial
statements and management letter for the other projects being implemented by the PCC were satisfactory;
and the in-house developed accounting software system, Copper, which is being used by the PCC for the
other projects which it is implementing, will be used for the IDCDP and a chart of accounts specifically for
the IDCDP has already been developed.
Financial management risks: The Association conducted a Country Portfolio Financial
Management Review (CPFMR) of all projects currently under supervision in Georgia and concluded that
project financial management capacity is being progressively developed, inter alia, as a result of reforms
in accounting and auditing and the creation of an independent accounting profession in Georgia.
However, systematic capacity building in project financial management is needed if the Georgia portfolio
of IDA-financed projects is to be implemented successfully. The main risks of the project's financial
management arrangements are as follows:
(i) Capacity of staff. The CPFMR concluded that given the high demand for skilled financial
professionals in Georgia, most of the newly-created PIUs reported difficulties in recruitment of skilled
accountants. The PCC currently employs full-time experienced financial staff who have significant
experience of general accounting and IDA-specific financial management and disbursement matters.
(ii) Financial management systems. In respect of existing IDA projects' financial management
systems, the CPFMR noted: generally, PIUs do not pay enough attention to basic internal control
procedures; although most of the PRIs have operational manuals, during project implementation,
these manuals are usually not much in use; and most of the accounting software packages used in
Georgia are not supported by adequate access to technical support and information technology (IT)
hotlines. Therefore, the Association reviewed the detailed design of the PCC's financial management
systems, including its procedures and internal controls, and found these to be acceptable. During
project supervision, the Association will, as recommended by the CPFMR, periodically review the
operational manual to ensure that it is being adhered to and is up-to-date.
(iii) Banking Arrangements / Special Account (SA). The banking sector in Georgia is relatively
weak. During project preparation, the Government opened a Special Account in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Association, and a Transit account in a local commercial bank rated as Camel I or
Camel 2 by the National Bank of Georgia. These arrangements were assessed by the Association to
have been satisfactory and therefore they will remain in place during project implementation. The
CPFMR noted some difficulties in the management of existing IDA projects' transit accounts and thus
it has been agreed for this project that the total amount held in the transit account will be limited to the
equivalent of US $5,000 and also, as recommended by the CPFMR, IDA project supervision will
include periodic reviews of the transit account and its management in addition to reviews of the
Special Account and other project accounts. The SA and transit accounts will be audited annually
and the results made available to the Association.
(iv) Auditing arrangements. The findings of the CPFMR conclude that project auditing arrangements
for most projects in the Georgia portfolio are satisfactory. The CPFMR also clarifies that, despite
progress made in terms of size of membership and professional development, the Georgia Federation of
Professional Accountants and Auditors is not yet a member of the International Federation of
- 85 -



Accountants (IFAC) and therefore the local audit firms certified by the Audit Council of the Parliament
of Georgia are not yet eligible to carry out audits of IDA-financed projects. Membership of a
professional accounting organization which is itself a member of IFAC is a pre-requisite for any audit
firm to be considered acceptable to the Association. However, the recent accounting and audit reforms
have created an enabling environment for creating associations between intemational audit firms
acceptable to the Association and local audit firms. Thus the Association will provide its no-objection
to the auditor selected by the PCU prior to its appointment.
Project Management Reports (PMRs) and Disbursements. Project management-oriented PMRs
will be used for project monitoring and supervision and the indicative formats of these were agreed upon
during negotiations. The PCC will start producing a full set of PMRs for every calendar quarter
throughout the life of the project beginning with the period ending March 31, 2002. However, the PMRs
showing the project's sources and uses of funds by disbursement category (PMR IA), uses of funds by
project activity (PMR I B) and the project's Special Account Statement (PMR I E) as well as the four
procurement management reports (PMRs 3A, 3B, 3C and 3D) will be produced from project effectiveness.
See also discussion above on disbursements and the use of statements of expenditures.
Audit Arrangements. The PCC's previous and current auditing arrangements and findings are
satisfactory to the Association and it has been agreed that these audit arrangements will be extended to the
IDCDP, to include the IDCDP's project financial statements, SOEs (or PMRs if used as the basis of
disbursement), Special Account and Second Generation Special Accounts. The PCC has presented a terms
of reference acceptable to the Association for the audit of all projects being implemented by the PCC,
including the IDCDP, for CY2001. The audits are conducted by independent private auditors acceptable to
the Association, on terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and procured by the PCC through the
Least-Cost Selection procurement process. The annual audited project financial statements will be
provided to the Association within six months of the end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the
project. The contract for the audit will be extended from year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to
satisfactory performance. The cost of the audit will be financed from the proceeds of the credit.
- 86 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GEORGIA: Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      40                           41
First Bank mission (identification)             12/05/97                     12/05/97
Appraisal mission departure                     02/12/2001                   02/12/2001
Negotiations                                    04/18/2001                   05/04/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/20/2001
Prepared by:
The Ministry of Agriculture and Food, through the Department of Amelioration and Water Economy and
the Project Implementation Center. Assistance from FAO Investment Center was received.
Preparation assistance:
The Government of Georgia received a PHRD grant and Project Preparation Facility resources for the
preparation of the project.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
V.Branscheid                     Irrigation/Drainage Engineering
I.Shuker                          Economy
J.Goldberg                        Sector Manager/Quality Control
A.Palmieri                        Dam Safety
J.Stoutjesdijk                   Irrigation/Drainage Engineering
S.Peabody                         Institutions/Social Aspects
D.Bontempo                        COSTAB; Project Processing Coordination
N.Khan                            Procurement
D.Kapanadze                       Environment/Institutions
K. Shephardson                    Environrment
R.Cestti                          Environment
R.Ganguli                         Financial Management
G. Singh                          Procurement
Z. Kolovou                        Legal Council
T. Nguyen                         Disbursement
- 87 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GEORGIA: Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Draft Project Implementation Plan
2. Draft Procurement and Financial Operations Manual for Community-based Organizations
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Financial Management Assessment
2. Procurement Capacity Assessment
C. Other
1. Environmental Impact Assessment, prepared with WB-TACIS Joint Environment Program funding,
2001
2. Seven-volume Project Preparation Report (engineering, agronomy, institutional, etc.), 1998
3. Various consultant engineering reports (tunnel, headworks, overall engineering costs), 1999, 2000
4. Agronomic analysis of project areas (consultant report), 2000
5. WB Working Paper, "Georgia: An Update of Agriculture Developments", 2001
6. Detailed project economic analysis (consultant report), 2001
*Including electronic files
- 88 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GEORGIA: Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD          IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P072394        2001 ENERGY TRANSIT INST BLDG                             0.00       9.63                  0.00       0.00       9.85       0.00       0.00
P054886        2001 ELEC MRKT SUPPORT                                    0.00      27.37                  0.00       0.00      26.78       0.00       0.00
P055173        2001 EDUCI (APL)                                          0.00      25.90                  0.00       0.00      25.11       0.00       0.0
P064091        2000 AGRIC RES. EXT. TRAINING (GEF)                       0.00       0.00                  2.48       0.00       2.29       0.22       0.00
P040556        2000 ROADS                                                0.00      40.00                  0.00       0.00      34.97       -2 47      0.00
P065715        2000 AGRRES EXT &TRG                                      0.00       7.60                  0.00       0.00       7.14       1.32       0.00
P056514        1999 TRANS MIN RESTRUCT                                   0.00       2.30                  0.00       0.00       1.56       1.52       0.00
P057813        1999 JUDICIAL REFORM                                      0.00      13.40                  0.00       0.00      10.70      -1.89       0.00
P060009        1999 INTGR COASTAL MGMT (GEF)                             0.00       0.00                  1.30       0.00        1.18      0.30       0.00
P008416        1999 ENT REHAB                                            0.00      15.00                  0.00       0.00      10.33       5.31       0.00
P064094        1999 ENERGY SECAC                                         0.00      25.00                  0.00       0.00      11.74      12.79       0.00
P050911        1999 INTGCOASTALMGT                                       0.00       4.40                  1.30       0.00       3.77       2.15       0.00
P052153        1999 SAC III                                              0.00      60.00                  0.00       0.00      38.27      61.10       0.00
P052154        1999 STRUCT REF SUPPORT                                   0.00      16.50                  0.00       0.00      11.40       6.13       0.00
P050910        1998 MUN DEV                                              0.00      20.90                  0.00       0.00      13.10      13.68       0.00
P055573        1998 CULTURAL HERITAGE                                    0.00       4.49                  0.00       0.00       2.12       1.88       0.00
P039929        1998 SIF                                                  0.00      20.00                  0.00       0.00       5.10       4.93       0.00
P008415        1997 AGRIC DEVT                                           0.00      15.00                  0.00       0.00       1.53       -0.48      0.00
P008414        1996 HEALTH                                               0.00      14.00                  0.00       0.00       5.20       640        0.00
Total:        0.00      321.49                5.08         0.00      222.13     112.91       0.00
- 89 -



GEORGIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999               Georgia M-F Bank               0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00
1998               Ksani                          6.32    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
1998               TBC Bank                       2.38    0.86    0.00    0.00    2.38    0.86    0.00    0.00
1999               ThilComBank                    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.01    0.00      0.00    0.00
2000               Telasi                        30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               ninotsminda                    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               BankofGeorgia                  3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.14    0.00    0.00    0.00
Georgia G&MW Co.               0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00
1997/00
Total Portfolio:        44.70    4.02    6.00     0.00    24.53    4.02    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1997              GGMW                              0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 90 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GEORGIA: Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Central      Low-         -  . .     _ _ _
Georgia       Asia   income       Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millons)                           5.5        475     2.417                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                       620      2,150       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                         3.4      1,022       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population ()0.0                                                    0.1        1 9
Labor force (%86)                                        0.0        0.6        2.3     GNP                               Gross
Labor force M                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~per                 primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                  capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)     1 
Urban population (% of total population)                  60         67        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          73         69        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  15         22        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                ..          8        43                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% ofpopulation)           ..        ..        64
Illiteracy (% of population age 150/                       ..         3        39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-ago population)     88        100        96     |         Georgia
Male                                                    89        101       102                   Low-income group
Female                                                  88        99         86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999       E        ratios'
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                               ,,                 3.5       2.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                     .     28 0       17.2       16.8
Exports of goods and services/GDP                ..    42 4        20.9      27 0                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       ..    25.3         -3.6     -2 2
Gross national savings/GDP                       .            .     59        8.8
Current account balance/GDP                                       -11.3      -8 0      Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP                            .                  1.1       1.2                                   Investment
Total debt/GDP                                             .       48.5      63.8      Savings            K
Total debt service/exports                                ..        7.2       11.9
Present value of debt/GDP                                  ,       36.9      49.2
Present value of debt/exports                    .                199.7     194 8
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   1.9    -17.2       2.9        3 3       4.8                    Georgia
GNP per capita                        1 1     -15.9      2.2        4 1       4.8             --    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                  9.9       3.5       -1.5       8.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            150
Agriculture                                      .      23 3       35.6      36.0
Industry                                         ..    38.7        13.0      12.9    100
Manufacturing                                   ..    27.1        7.6        7.6     so
Services                                         ..    38.0        515       51.1 o
Private consumption                              ..    62.6        90.2      89 8      -so                                  99
General government consumption                   ,.    12.1        13.4      12.4               -G Do            GDP
Imports of goods and services                   ..    45.1         41.6      46.0
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                      ..      3.0       -8.0       3.0    s0 .
Industry                                        ..       5.1       -2.0       2.0    40-
Manufacturing                                          3.3        -1.0       3 0
Services                                         ..    19.0        16 5       1.7    20 -
Private consumption                             ..       6.8        9.1      -5 2      0
General government consumption                          17.3        6.2     -11.4             94 s        96   97 9o8
Gross domestic investment                        ..    18.9        15.5     -14.4    -20            o
Imports of goods and services                    .      12.1       12.2     -12.7                 Exports   _Imports
Gross national product                          1.9    -15.9        2.4       4.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 91 -



Georgia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                       2000|
(% change)                                                                            20.000 _
Consumer prices                                            ,        3.6      19.1    150.40
Implicit GDP deflator                          2.8       5.4        4.5       9.4    o0o000
Government rinance                                                                    5000
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      o
Current revenue                                  ..    29.1        16.2      15.9               94   95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                           ..    29.1        -4.4      -5.1              -GDP deflator  *0CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    29.1        -6.4      -6.9
TRADE
(USS millions)                                1979     1989       1998      1999       Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                              ..   6,716        478       477      1,200
Black metal                                                        39        33         T
Tea                                             ..      ..         43        39      900
Manufactures                                    .        ..      222       249          1
Total imports (cif)                              ..   7,150       1,164     1,013      6
Food                                                 1,685       325       281       3 J0
Fuel and energy                                ..    481         205        187          flu         i         J          a9
Capital goods                                   .    1,710       231        187        0
93  94  95  90         94
Export price index (1995=100)                                       90        93
Import price index (1995=100)                    .         .        95        95                   Si Exports    EImpors
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..                 94        97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(03$ milions)                                                                        . 1979  1989  1998  1999  Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                             ..       720       739 o
Imports of goods and services                             ..      1,437     1,260
Resource balance                                                  -717      -521
Net income                                                .. 117                                    I'll
Net current transfers                                     ..       211       182         I
Current account balance                                   ..      -389      -220      -12
Financing items (net)                                     ..       298       209
Changes in net reserves                                    .        91        11    -18
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..        ..       119       133
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                ..        ..        1.4       2.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                              1,674     1,747
IBRD                                                    .          0         0                      F: 17
IDA                                                              274       346                                 B34e
Total debt service                                        ..        66       113
IBRD                               0                                        0
IDA                                                     ..         2         3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                .                  54        68        E: 1,007                       C: 322
Official creditors                                      ..        96        71
Private creditors                                       ..         0        17
Foreign direct investment                               ..        50        62
Portfolio equity                               .         .         0         0                                D:56
World Bank program
Commitments                                             ..        27       115    |A-IBRD                        E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                                     53        79      8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                          ,,                   0         0      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                                         53        79
Interest payments                                       ..         2         3
Net transfers                                 ..                  51        76
Development Economics                                                                                                    9/15/00
- 92 -



Additional
Annex 11
Letter of Development Program
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD OF GEORGIA
41 KOwstava St *Tbili  30023 * Goo'ga
Phone 4.7)583219-97* Fax +,7/88213-33-00
N91~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S. It 59t
To Her Excellency
Ms. Judy O'Connor
Country Directr for Georgia
Europe and Central Asia Region
World Bank
Tel. 202-4734513
Fax: 202-522-3607
Door Ms O'COngwr,
ft. L [fteD           mf,
First of all I would like to take this opportunity and thank you and your colleagues for
the warm bospitality you extended to the Georgian Delegstion members during thc
Negoiations on the Derelopment Credit Agreement for the Irrigation and Drainage
Community Development Project (IDCDP ).
I am sending you the Letter of Development Program (see enclosed - 4pg.).
Miister
- 93 -



Leter of Development Progam
Program Objectives
The Government of Georgia's long term objective in implemenTing the Irrigation and
Drainage Community Development Proram over a period of twelve years is to inremase
farm family incomes and to reduce the nsk of crop failure in areas prone to drought or
flooding by rehabilitating existing irrigation and draag inastructre covering about
255,000 ha and developing an istitutional foundation that will ensure for the long-tern
sustainability of those systems that are economically viable.
Tbe Program will be implemented in dtree phases The first phase of five years will
place an mphasis on creating a legal famework for Amelioration Associations (AMU),
assistig the establishment of AAs, and rehabilitating irrigation and drainage
infsucu  on schemes where the risk and impact of infastructure collapse is high
Building on the experience gained in the first phase, the second and third pbase of the
progm will continue assisimg the establisbment of AAs and rehabilitating criidcal
iigation and drainage infrtructure on schemes that are demonstrated to be
economically viable.
Policy Statement
The Policy of the Georgian Government with respect to The irrigation and drainage sector
is to create a legal and insurional environment in which farms will receive timely
supply of water or drainage services at cost effectve rates, while at the same time
miimizing stte subsidies for water supply and drainage services. The Government
intends to implement this strategy by providing famens with the correct incentives to
m anaged maminin local infrstuture on a sustainable basis, whle at the samu time
ineasing the efficiency of Government provided services.
Incntives for Farrs. Ea order to provide the correct incentive structure for farmers to
effectively manage local irastru e, the Government intends to cstblsh a sitable
lega environment for the establishment and operation of member managed AAs that are
financially independew ad self sumcient In order to  sue that the AM have full
control of their optio and have the incentive to mainin infratructure, AAs will be
given legal rights to termless use, with the fixture posible opdon to own, all the irrigaon
or drinage infiastracture withim tir service tunTtory. The Government will provide
seed money to these AAsM funded from the Program, in order to asist their establishment
and the iutial irhabiliton of the infas=ucr under ihir management Thercafter
they are expeaed to be self su5fcient The Government will also have an ongoing
training program and support for AAs in order to assist thi development
_ncedLfciencv of Govement S=eve  The Govermment is also committed to
reducing the cost of provnding water supply and drainage sevices throu  the
Depanment of Amelioration and Water Economy (DAWE) of the Ministry of Agriculture
and rnen& mnt increasine? the levels of cost recovery. The Goverment intends to do is
- 94 -



2
AAs, who can perform this fimetion rnore efficiently, and focusing its attention on the
operation and maintenance (O&M) only of infrastnacture under its management; ii)
where AAs have reached an acceptable level mastered the management of lower lcvel
(local) infastture there would be a gradual transesr of larger infrastructure to AAs
from DAWE; iii) increasing the efficiency of staff at DAWE by reducing staff numbers
significantly and retaining the remaining sta;ff and iv) increasing the lvcvl of cost
recovery for servics provided by DAWE by opimizing fees ad collection rates over
time. It is the intntion ofthe Government to achieve full cost recovery for the O&M of
the remaining Goverment-owned inigation and drainage infrastrucnte by the end of the
program
Monitoring of Policy Goals
TUIGCiERS TO GO TO SECOD PJIE
Completion of restucturing plan for DAWE, which will be implemented during the
second phase.
Water charg es for MAFADAWE would be increased by at least 1.5 times the current rate
of GCorgian Laan (GEL) 4 per 1000 m3, in real terms, except for schemes that have
benefited frm fuil rehabilitation. Water charges for these schemes would be set at the
rate approaching the f&Il rate necessary to provide adequate O&K. to be introduced
gradually over a four-year period. Determination of appropriate level of water charges
would be done with the fill participation of the AAs active in the schemes.
DAVWE (or any succesor entity) collection rates for water supply or drainage services
win inu ase to at least 70% of contracted delivwries.
DAWWE (or any successor entity) will achieve 70% on-time delivery of water to clients in
schemes covered by both the Ful Rehabiitation and the National Programs, who are
curent in their payments.
Consistent govenment commitment to providing at least minimum acceptable levels of
0&M financing during phase 1 * based on an annual O&M plan prepared by MLAF, and
agreed with Ministry of Finace.
Establishment of a reguLatory agency for AAs within the MAF.
The operations of at least 50% of the AAs cstablished under both the Full Rehabilitation
and National Proams, which have been in operation for at least one year, should be
rated as satisfactory according to the performance plan agreed with the PCC and the
Associatiom, in terms of collcction of fees, water delivery, maintenance of infastmacture,
financial management, and governance.
Evidence, based on economic analysis, that dere are sufficient number of priority
schemes for the second phase to justify thc project Priority schemes selected for thc
- 95 -



3
Satisfactowry progress on compleion of phase I works.
At the tinc of the Mid-Term. Review, the existing Law on Amelioration will be reviewed
to determint its completeness, arnd that it satisfies all needs ofthe associatios in Georgit
In addition. tax and ownenbip issues related to AAs will be reviewed If it is determined
that revised legislation is required, consideraton by the parliament of said legislabon
would be a triger for the second phase.
TRiggERS TO GO TO ToIM  PHASE SbiaLt  Lscussions during Netottations for
the Secon Pbase of the APM)
Satisfactory restructuring of DAWE, according to the plan agreed in fim phase.
20% of the AA  developed under the project have enarged or federated, to manage
higher order iufrastructure.
Water charges would be fuither partly increased from die rates prevailing at the
beginning of phase 2; except for schemes that have benefited from f1l rehabilitaton.
Water charges for these schemes would be set at the rate approaching the full rate
necessary to provide adequate O&M. to be introduced gradually over a four-year period.
DAWE (or any successor entity) collection rates for water supply or drainage serices
will further increase (compared with phase 1).
DAWE (or any successor entity) will consistenly acheve on-time delivery of water to
clients who are current in their payments.
Consistent govaement commitment to providing at least minimnum acceplable leveis of
O&M financing during phase 2, based on an annual O&M plan prepared by MAF, and
agreed with Mnistry of Fiance.
The operanons of at least 65% of the AA establishcd under both the Full Rehabilitation
and National Programs, which have been in operation for at least one year, should be
rated as satisfactory according to the performance plan agreed wit the PCC and the
Association, in tetns of collection of fees, water delivery, maintenance of infrastructure,
financial management, and govenance.
Evidence, based on economic analysis, that there are sufficient number of priomry
schemes for the third phase to justify the project Priority schemes selected for the third
phase will need to have rates of return higher then the cost of capital, based on the
prevailing economic climate in Georgia at the time.
Satisfactry progress on completion of phase 2 woiks.
- 96 -



4
Finaucing
To SUPoPt the program dcscribed in this Itter, the Government of Georgia is requesting
IDA to provide financial support in the amount of USD) 90 miUMon over 12 years. The
firt PhaSe of ti prOgram would require USD 27 mil;lon for uiplementation.
Capturg the LesSons Learned from Monitoring and EvaJuation
The lessoms leamed as a result of implementing the fit phae will be incorporated into
the design of the second pbase, and if necessary, adjustments will be made to the
monitorable indicators, thus poviing some flexibiity in implementation
Insdtuoatl Arrangements
The Govenment W11 maintain an adequately staffied Project Implementsion Unit (the
Irigaton and Drainage Project finplementation Unit (IDPIU)) witin the Projet
Coordination Center (PCC) for the duration of the Progra One of the primary goals of
the Program is to develop the institutional capacity of AAs so that a significant
proportion of them can opemte independently. For those AAs that arm not capable of
managing independently, ontinued trainig and oversight by the IDPIU will be provided
hroughout the program, recognizing that the establishment of AA is a long temn
undertaking.
Miniter of Agrieulure and
Food of Georga
- 97 -



Additional
Annex 12
Amelioration Associations
Background Information
Georgia is a small country with the area of 70,000 square km and a population of 5.4 million.
Agriculture has always been a key sector of Georgian economy. For the last few years it contributes
around 35 percent of GDP and employs 50 percent of the total labor force.
Regardless of Georgia's small size, its geographic, climatic and ecological diversity is outstanding
and allows for the production of wide variety of crops. In some regions of the country precipitation rates
are adequate for the production of specific crops. Other areas of significant production either fully rely on
irrigation, or yields are much dependent on it. Much of western Georgia is humid and represents the
northern margin of the subtropical climatic zone. The Plains are close to sea level or below and get flooded
by storm water and rivers. Natural wetlands are an integral part of the landscape. Growing crops in the
lowlands of west Georgia requires drainage.
Irrigation and drainage infrastructure was developed in the country during the Soviet period.
Irrigation schemes covered 469,000 ha and 163,000 ha were drained. About 30 percent of irrigation and
20 percent of drainage schemes were operated through pumping stations. All infrastructure was owned and
operated by the State and water was supplied nearly for free to the collective farms.
After the breakdovn of USSR and a shift towards a market-driven economy, Georgia found itself
in a devastating transition period, loaded with civil unrest, ethnic conflicts, an energy crisis and economic
decline. Irrigation and drainage infrastructure dramatically suffered during this period. The lack of
maintenance and mismanagement, coupled with the results of land reform, resulted in broken canals,
blocked pipes, damaged gates, inoperable headworks and reduced canal capacities. On the supply side, the
Government has been undble to operate and maintain the infrastructure properly given the scarcity of
public funding. The modest scope of O&M carried out over the last few years mostly relied on assistance
from the Georgia Food Security Program funded by EU-TACIS.
On the client side, large-scale collective farns were replaced either by small subsistence farms with
0.75 to 1.25 ha of privatized agricultural land or by leaseholds of much larger, non-privatized area.
Subsistence farmers have marginal profits and are mostly unable and reluctant to pay water user fees on an
individual basis, particularly when water delivery is erratic. Nonetheless, independent farmers are willing
to invest jointly in infrastructure.
Consequently, community-based irrigation and drainage rehabilitation and development has a high
profile in the proposed IDCD Project. Civil works aim at stopping the deterioration of infrastructure and
sustaining its operation as an integral part of the Project, but the primary focus is on beneficiary
participation through the establishment of amelioration associations (AAs) and their involvement in
decision-making, rehabilitating works, and in O&M of the infrastructure.
Rationale for Establishinig AAs
The key principle of the IDCD Project is to involve farmers in the management and rehabilitation
of amelioration infrastructure by helping them organize themselves into self-supporting management groups
- 98 -



that manage water distribution and mobilize resources in-kind and cash to maintain the infrastructure.
Experience from many countries suggests that farmers' involvement significantly increases the quality and
sustainability of O&M on rehabilitated infrastructure.
The establishment of farmers' organizations and water user associations became an issue in
Georgia when the collective farms were abolished and the privatization of agricultural land started. This
process, still ongoing, has resulted in the creation of numerous rural households with privately owned land
plots of about 1 ha. Individual farming on such small areas is very difficult, except on a subsistence level,
without access to credit to buy agricultural machinery and agricultural inputs and services, which are
otherwise unaffordable to farmers. Moreover, the dissolution of the collective farm left no institutional
mechanism to manage the irrigation system within the boundaries of former state farms, thus newly
independent farmers could neither rely on the system nor organize themselves to create the new field
channels needed to deliver water to all new plots. Amelioration Service Cooperatives (ASCs) were created
over large areas to fill the management vacuum but, even where they were established, they never
developed wide support. Most ASCs failed for a number of reasons, including their elite nature, lack of
accountability and easy transformation into a rent-seeking opportunities by their founders. Undoubtedly
their establishment was well-intentioned and ASCs were promoted to meet a real institutional need. In
retrospect, however, it is clear that the failure of ASCs was inevitable. The program to create ASCs was
carried out with very limited public information and no attempt to create broad based support. The ASC
movement thus was seen by prospective beneficiaries as an expensive, close-knit, rent seeking initiative. It
aimed to mobilize a small rural elite, especially the former managers and technical staff of the defunct
collective farms, who potentially benefited more than others, thus it never gained popular support.
Despite this context of suspicion of state initiatives, the pilot activities undertaken during IDCD
preparation demonstrate clearly that farmers feel the need for collective action. They understand that
irrigation and drainage schemes can only be managed collectively or by an agency. Given their lack of
trust in any agency, farmers responded with interest when they were introduced to the AA concept. A key
to the success achieved so far in the pilots is the fact that it uses an approach that relies heavily on personal
contact and information sharing, as well as developing new experience. In short, the program is developed
as a bottom-up movement that relies on a broad-based local initiative, focuses on the immediate needs of
individual farmers and creates a simple, accountable institutional mechanism to protect common interests.
The move to establish AAs was triggered by at least two factors, both of which coincide with the
objective reality of farmers: first, the institutional vacuum in on-farm water management created by the
demise of collective farms; and second, the precipitous deterioration of irrigation infrastructure. Due to the
State's financial and economic crisis, public funding for the amelioration sector continually declined over
the last decade. The Government has failed to carry out its traditional role of maintaining the irrigation and
drainage infrastructure. The ongoing deterioration of irrigation/drainage schemes and hydraulic structures
requires immediate interventions first, to arrest this process; and second, eventually to rehabilitate the
infrastructure. Under these critical conditions, experience in many countries has demonstrated that
organized water users can play an important role in reversing the trend by managing on-farm water
delivery, mobilizing labor for maintenance and levying retail water charges. In order to assume such roles
effectively, however, AAs need an appropriate legal structure, which is being set in place.
Legal Framework
In the Soviet times water was supplied essentially for free to state and collective farms and the
State was fully responsible for construction and O&M of the infrastructure outside of the farms. The
- 99 -



farms were responsible for water distribution and maintenance of the on-farm works. Therefore, there was
no need for water users organizations, as irrigation management was integrated into overall farm
management. Not surprisingly, there was no legal structure to regulate the establishment and functioning
of such organizations.
The reform of amelioration sector began in January 1997, with the issue of Presidential Decree No.
20 on The First Stage of Implementation of Reform in Amelioration and Water Economy Sector. This
Decree called for the establishment of ASCs for the operation and maintenance of the on-farm amelioration
infrastructure and collect water charges. According to the Decree, all primary schemes and hydraulic
structures of inter-farm irrigation, drainage and water supply were to remain in State ownership and the
maintenance was to be financed from the State budget. Presidential Order No. 344 on The Rules of
Inventorying and Management of the State Owned Real Estate allowed the transfer of on-farm schemes
for use to ASCs.
The Law on Amelioration was enacted the same year (October 1997). It mainly reaffirmed the
principles outlined in the Presidential Decree, stating that ASCs should be established and receive usufruct
rights over the amelioration infrastructure; ASCs would set retail tariffs for services provided to the their
members; the State budget would finance O&M of the State owned parts of the amelioration infrastructure;
and ASCs or local governments should finance the parts of the systems under their control. An ASC is
defined in the 1997 version of the Law on Amelioration as a society based on the joint share property and
on labor contribution, established under the Law on Entrepreneurs (1994) and the Law on Amelioration
(1997).
During the preparation phase of this project, the FAOlWorld Bank Cooperative Program mission
recommended the Borrower to create legislation recognizing AAs and regulating their establishment and
functioning for the purposes of the proposed Project, as well as for the general benefit of managing the
amelioration systems in Georgia. The Borrower agreed to provide the necessary legal basis for AAs by
amending the existing Law on Amelioration.
The rationale for amending the Law on Amelioration was that the legislation did not contain
specific provisions required to establish participatory water management organizations. The law actually
sanctioned the establishment of ASCs and referred for details to the Law on Entrepreneurs, which is not
appropriate for regulating this particular type of organizations. For instance, the Law on Entrepreneurs
required capital contribution from the cooperative members in the amount up to GEL 50, which was
unaffordable for many potential members. The Law on Entrepreneurs also authorized the establishment of
an ASC by as few as five members, which does not make sense for the purposes of O&M of irrigation
schemes.
Amendments to the Law on Amelioration were enacted in March, 2000. This legislation defines
AAs as private, non-profit entities authorized to represent the interests of the water users: to operate and
manage on-farm irrigation, drainage and water supply systems, including pumping stations and hydraulic
structures; receive and measure water supply at the distribution points; to distribute the water fairly to
users; and to provide contractual services to non-members of AAs. The Civil Code and the amended Law
on Amelioration shape the legal framework for the establishment of AAs and provides for the
transfornation of existing ASCs into AAs.
Although different institutional models function internationally, the most consistently successful
are those which are officially constituted as Legal Bodies of Public Right or Legal Bodies under Public
Law. This model ensures full public accountability, which is appropriate for bodies operating in the public
- 100-



interest. DAWE officials have visited a number of such bodies abroad and GOG has now agreed that AAs
in Georgia should function as Legal Bodies under Public Law. New draft amendments to the Amelioration
Law have been prepared and await enactment. The final law will also cover the status of AAs and state
that the infrastructure within the territory of an AA will be transferred to AAs initially on a 'usufruct' basis,
thus maintaining the present ownership of the infrastructure either with DAWE or Municipalities.
In general, an AA can be established within a service zone (an area served by at least one hydraulic
unit within a single amelioration scheme) with the participation of at least 51 percent of the water users of
this zone representing at least 51 percent of the land. AAs have to register with DAWE. Members elect at
least three members to a Board that manages the AA.
AAs introduce a retail charge for water delivered per ha. The levied money covers: (i) wholesale
charges imposed by the State upon AAs and other water users for the water delivered per ha through the
State owned primary schemes; and (ii) AAs' operation costs and cost of the services delivered by AAs to
their members.
AA Principles
AAs are based on hydraulic units, the command area of one or more secondary canals, in most
cases. This is a standard arrangement, reflecting the individual and common interests of people who
receive water from one source and join their efforts for operation and maintenance of the secondary canals
and drains and attached irrigation and drainage structures. In systems with several small secondary
channels, the number of channels included in an AA is determnined by farmers themselves, based on their
perceptions of social compatibility and trust. In the future, AAs can aggregate in federations to assume
management responsibility or ownership of infrastructure that serves greater hydraulic units.
Membership is voluntary in AAs, as farmers and other citizens are wary of anything that appears
to resemble a mandatory collective activity or association. Farmers who choose not to join an AA have the
right to obtain water through the AA at retail prices set by the AA that reflect both DAWE's tariff and the
O&M costs of the AA.
The legislation regulating operation of AAs is common for all such organizations, but each AA
must have an individual charter that includes the specific preferences and decisions made by AA members.
Each AA is allowed to establish retail water charges at a level suitable for the association. The association
is responsible for paying DAWE's tariff, which is included in the retail charge.
As the IDCD Project is designed as a 12-year Adaptable Program Lending (Credit) mechanism,
infrastructure rehabilitation will be sequenced to cover different schemes in succession. Obviously, many
irrigated/drained areas fall outside of the area marked for rehabilitation works planned for the first phase of
project implementation. Meanwhile, the AA program will move full steam ahead. IDCD Project resources
will facilitate the establishment of AAs throughout the country in three programs: the Rehabilitation
Program will work with AAs within the rehabilitated perimeters; the National Program will provide
facilitation, training and seed money to a number of AAs located outside of the rehabilitation perimeters
that are selected according to specific criteria; the Establishment Program will provide facilitation and
institutional support, primarily training, to other AAs or groups that wish to establish AAs. The first two
programs offer cash incentives to organize, and are therefore likely to generate considerable demand for
project support.
The project team understands that differential treatment may affect the attitude of AA members
- 101 -



and the sustainability of AAs, particularly those involved in the Establishment Program. However, the
component is expected to be very important and effective for three reasons: first, farmers understand the
inequity in the current situation and feel the need for some mechanism to assure water delivery to all
irrigators; second, farmers and DAWE understand that the creation of AAs will help arrest further
deterioration of amelioration infrastructure, thus reducing the cost of future rehabilitation; third, IDCDP
support is aimed to help AAs in the management and technical areas that AAs need in order to be
sustainable. Obviously, water charges in un-rehabilitated schemes are expected to be lower than in
rehabilitated schemes, because irrigation and drainage services will be poorer.
Pilot Activities
To test the proposed mechanisms to generate AA involvement, pilot activities were carried out in
three administrative units (raions) of Georgia - Lanchkhuti, Meskheti, and Gurjaani. Technical assistance
was provided to establish associations in each of these raions. The following table provides information on
the pilot AAs.
Raion         Scheme            AA           Net       Date of decision    Date of AA
membership    covered     making meeting    registration
area (ha)
Lanchkhuti    Rioni-Choloki       588          370       April 13, 2000    June 6, 2000
(drainage)
Akhaltsikhe     Meskheti          206           97        April 14, 2000    April 20, 2000
(irrigation)
Gurjaani    Kvemo-Alazani        446          284       April 21, 2000    May 24, 2000
(irrigation)
|  Total                  1,240         751
Pilot areas were carefully chosen after considering physical merits of the service area of a
prospective AA, the condition of the on-farm and secondary infrastructure, land tenure issues, and the
number of potential members of AAs. Decision-making meetings were organized to bring communities
together and decide whether they like to be organized into associations. These water user communities
agreed to establish their eligibility for the financial assistance proposed for the IDCD Project. That is, they
agreed to deliver works worth US $20/ha within the association's service area in order to obtain project
assistance worth US $1 00/ha (net of taxes).
In the pilots, IDPIU (until recently called PIC) and AAs jointly deterrnined and costed the scope of
work to be carried out by these AAs within their service areas. For the purpose of monitoring, the
condition of the on-farm infrastructure was documented in photo and video formnat before the works
commenced. This documentation will be repeated during implementation of the works and after they are
completed.
While the AAs initiated their work, IDPIU hired consultants to develop detailed engineering
designs for rehabilitation of the on-farm systems to ensure that the systems can operate properly. When the
designs were completed, AAs, assisted by IDPIU staff, jointly prioritized the works that could be completed
- 102 -



within the seed money package, a total of US $120/ha, and defined which activities would be carried out
independently by AAs (at least the Us $20/ha portion) and which work should be undertaken by
contractors. In the original conceptualization of the pilots, it was envisioned that an AA had to complete its
work (US $20/ha) before becoming eligible for the seed money. When the pilots were implemented,
however, it became clear that the requirement for an up-front AA contribution was impractical, and
possibly counter-productive. In practice, the rehabilitation plan is needed in order to deternine which of
the works that an AA can manage will have the greatest positive impact. Thus the requirement for an
up-front contribution was relaxed to integrate the AA's contribution more effectively and efficiently into an
overall rehabilitation plan for its service territory.
The field experience was positive, but rather limited. IDPIU staff found a high level of interest in
the pilot areas and a general eagemess to create AAs and meet IDCDP's conditions for eligibility to
participate in the project. IMT staff found that farmers are highly motivated and ready to meet
requirements and, more importantly, ready to take more initiatives and assume more responsibilities in the
future. IMT staff also found that women and younger farmers engaged in preliminary discussions in great
numbers. Members of the boards generally span a wide age range, but no women have been elected to
boards to date. Field discussions during appraisal indicated that most members clearly understood the
rational and benefits from joining the AA, but that the overall information flow to regular AA members is
still rather limited. It is possible that the limited level of common information is related to the fact that the
process had stalled (there were disputes on the legality of transferring US $100/ha to privately organized
entities) and board members were relatively inactive in order not to raise unnecessary expectations. It is
also possible that board members do not yet fully understand the importance of information and
transparency to the success and strength of the AA. In any case, IMT staff have understood the need to be
more proactive in promoting openness and transparency, both to build support and to ensure that the board
does not monopolize leadership over time.
Unfortunately, the pilot rehabilitation budget got stalled at the point of tendering, thus no seed
money had been used by the time of appraisal. Indeed, some farmers appeared to be on the verge of losing
their trust in the IDPIU, but AA managers have remained steadfast. Meanwhile, IDPIU staff have
continued to maintain contacts with the AAs and to prepare themselves to respond immediately when funds
could be released. Construction works have now started and are expected to be completed at the end of
June. While the full organization/mobilization/investment cycle has not been completed, the pilots
nevertheless have yielded important results that confirm the validity of the general approach. At the same
time, they have provided invaluable experience to IDPIU staff to develop and practice new skills and to
give them a thorough understanding of their roles and their unique contributions to farmers and to the
reorientation and eventual restructuring of DAWE into a modem, client-focused agency.
AA Support Structure in IDCDP
The IMT is structured to maximize field presence and two-way communication. Six Regional
Facilitators and AA Organizers will be the interface between farmers/AAs and the IDPIU. They will
promote and support AAs, as described in the next section. Individual Regional Facilitators will be located
in the rehabilitation sites, responsible for AAs in the Rehabilitation Program and those selected for the
National Program. AA Organizers (two two-person teams, increasing to 3 teams in Year 3 and 4 in Year
4, will be based in Tbilisi but spend the bulk of their time in the field, systematically covering a wide
geographical area. Regional Facilitators and AA Organizers will be trained in facilitation, group dynamics,
conflict resolution, PRA methods, as well as the management, govemance and water scheduling skills to be
imparted to AA managers and members. Their work will be managed by two Coordinators located in
Tbilisi, who will also be responsible for technical issues related to the use of seed money and AA
- 103-



contributions. They will also receive the range of training of Regional Facilitators and AA Organizers to
enable them to mentor and supervise their work. An Institutional Development and Training Specialist will
train and backstop field staff; design and manage public information activities, with the assistance of local
specialists; design and conduct staff and AA training; and recruit and supervise the work of short-term
specialist trainers. A Seed Capital specialist will oversee financial and fiduciary aspects of seed money.
IDCDP Assistance to AAs
There will be three AA support programs, as indicated above, each managed by the Institutional
Management Team. The support provided through registration is the same in each program, but
subsequent support varies. The initial common steps will be discussed and then each program will be
described in tum.
From Contact through Registration. The process starts when a member of the IMT (either a
Regional Facilitator or an AA Organizer) visits an irrigation or drainage area and discusses the AA concept
with the head and members of village councils and various people in the community. If they are interested,
the IMT person asks them to identify an informal committee, which arranges follow-up visits for the IMT
staff to meet informally with people in different parts of the system to inform families about the project and
answer questions. IMT staff will make concerted efforts to include both men and women and youth in the
information sharing and consultation process to ensure that the majority of members of the community
receive first-hand information and are able to express their opinions and obtain the information they need to
make an informed decision (and to influence other members of the household, as needed). They will also
actively encourage members of the AA to elect women and young farmers on the board.
When it is clear that there is general interest, the IMT will engage the committee and others in a
series of Participatory Leaming and Action (PLA) exercises to get an overview of the potential AA service
territory, identify bottlenecks and opportunities for high-impact interventions and establish the boundaries
of the AA service territory. The next step is to identify potential members - both owners and renters - using
cadastre maps. This information is used to prepare a list of potential members and their land holdings
(essentially a petition) that can be used to obtain signatures of those who want to join the AA. Members of
the committee then take the petition around the community to obtain as many signatures as possible.
Once more than half of the potential members sign the petition, representing more than half of the
irrigated/drained area, the IMT staff help the committee to prepare the documentation required to establish
an AA, including a draft charter. The committee then calls a general assembly of all potential members,
whether or not they signed the petition. This constitutes the Establishment Meeting, during which the
conditions of membership are discussed; the draft charter is modified, as needed and approved; and the
management board is elected. The IMT staff then helps the board prepare minutes and final documents and
submit them for registration.
Rehabilitation Program. During the organizing and registration phase, AAs in the schemes to be
rehabilitated during the first phase of IDCDP will be given information about project activities, particularly
the seed money, and efforts will be made to ensure that AA members are made aware of their obligation to
mobilize the equivalent of US $20/ha to receive the seed money. When the AA is registered and members
have agreed to meet the requirement, the AA will select an engineer to assist in the preparation of a
development plan for the AA service territory. With the assistance of the board and AA members, the
engineer prepares a plan to ensure that all farmers have access to water. The plan will have three principal
characteristics: first, a least cost minimal plan maximizing the use of local labor (to make maximum use of
the seed money); second, a long-term plan that includes structures that are required for long-term, reliable,
- 104 -



low maintenance operation; and third, a work plan that assigns responsibilities to the AA to utilize the AA's
US $20 equivalent contribution and identifies works that will be completed using the seed money. The
plans are discussed by members of the AA and modified, as necessary, and submitted to the IDPIU for
approval. Once the plan is approved, the IMT and other staff of the IDPIU will assist the AA to carry it
out.
Meanwhile, IMT staff and the AA board assess the AA's training needs and arrange for individual
or multi-AA training courses to be given, as needed, in addition to the ongoing support and informal
training provided by IMT field staff.
National AA Program. The purpose of the National AA Program is to maximize the immediate
impact of the project by providing a subsidy (seed money) on a matching basis to select AAs to enable
them to remove technical bottlenecks and get irrigation or drainage water flowing in their respective service
territory. A target number of National Program AAs will be set annually. The AAs will be selected
according to clear, unequivocal criteria, in a transparent process. Once they are selected, AAs in the
National Program will obtain the technical support of an engineer, as well as other support given to AAs in
the Rehabilitation Program. The National Program selection criteria will be designed to give preference to
AAs that demonstrate the greatest commitment and to obtain the greatest impact with the resources made
available, measured as the incremental area served, as well as the increased number of families receiving
irrigation water as the result of the investment. Four main criteria will be used in the selection, to be
refined annually, in light of experience. The criteria are as follows:
* access to adequate water supply or drainage services;
* the estimated cost required to assure that all AA members receive water or drainage and
potential impact (percentage increase in coverage area and increased number of households) of
the investment;
* farmer commitment, as indicated by the percentage of eligible farmers who join the AA; and
* percentage of DAWE tariff paid during the previous year.
Some of the data required for the assessment will be generated through the PRA process
undertaken early in each AA formation. Other data will be obtained from other sources, such as technical
surveys and estimates, or provided by the AA. AA requests are scored according to the criteria and the
AAs in each district with the highest composite scores will be selected. An AA which is not selected can
apply again in subsequent years.
AA Establishment Program. The project will conduct a widespread public information campaign
announcing the objectives of the project and annual plans. In addition, it will distribute information about
AAs widely throughout the country that simply and clearly describes the purpose and benefits of
establishing AAs; steps and costs of formation and registration; project support in the process; and ongoing
responsibilities and obligations of the AA. The Establishment Program will be open to all communities in
which farmers express an interest in forming an AA. In addition, AA Organizers will target certain areas
to promote AAs actively and to provide immediate and ongoing support.
AAs in the Establishment Program will be given the same support and training as other AAs, but
no financial assistance.
Financial Support to AAs
Considering the poverty of small landowners and their inability to raise cash up front, project
- 105 -



design allows labor contribution as a means of farmers' involvement in rehabilitation work from the very
beginning of project intervention. IDPIU staff will visit areas included in the Rehabilitation Program and
National Program and together with landowners and their engineer will define general type and scope of
work to be done for upgrading the on-farm system. This work should not necessary require machinery and
mnuch of it should generally be doable by muscle power with the tools already available to farmers. If a
program is identified and agreed by the AA in principle, members will be expected - after the preparation of
an implementation plan - to deliver their labor contribution valued at up to US $20/ha. Representatives of
IDPIU will be responsible for overall monitoring of this activity.
After detailed planning of works by an engineer to be engaged by an AA, the AA will receive the
seed money in its bank account (in work stages) and would manage it under the oversight of IDPIU, as
explained in Annex 2.
It is possible that works worth US $125/ha will not be enough for full rehabilitation of an
AA-managed network. Nevertheless, even partial improvement of the schemes may help AAs to distribute
water and thus to increase collection of the retail water charges and motivate their farmers to mobilize more
in kind/cash contributions to repair, operate and maintain the schemes. If the US S I 20/ha is inadequate to
provide water or drainage to all members of the AA, and the AA is not able to mobilize enough additional
resources to do so, this could generate conflict within the AA and disenchantment, and thus weaken or
cripple the AA, rather than strengthen. As the objective of the rehabilitation is to achieve equity in access
to water or drainage, incomplete rehabilitation may exacerbate inequity, rather than reduce it. The AAs
and Regional Coordinators will follow the process carefully and, with the Coordinators, assess the status of
the seed money annually and, if needed, adjust the formula to enable the support to achieve the project's
objective to provide equitable access to irigation water or drainage to all members of an AA.
- 106-



IRED 314A74
*0                                                41'                                              427                                              43                                                44                                                 43                      Areas ta be Covered by the Adaptable Program  Credit
Talal   Plara-d Re,rabdilrro  Arra
GEORGIA                                                                         No       -                                    SuIh-a   Pr      (b1ly Ph-a)   Pae
G E  O  R  G I A                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~No    N. N.me ofkSh-m  DiMlr,d  Ar.. (h.)  Phose I   Phase 2   Phase 3
IRRIGATION  AND   DRAINAGE                                                                                      Irriga7Akooash.,iosr.ddhI    Marr-sli  2790                                  2790
2 2 Irrraa ArWk           Irnii                         2730           25
5 3   TrrraIarar,            G-~aarbi     198200             12500
,._ _                                                                                                                             COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                -s 5 ;^ffi ,   QkaaniLn;' 0~ 19800 - 87r                    -12200  9400
6    6.K, SOaOProoa....                        40
/   \~_1  i7                   Oo oiv SumSorl l Sa =mirojA   17500  14500   3000
a,oaa,ro                             0 7    SELECTED CTIES                                            a9         MomolrgEgo              kaTLrUE      13500     3220     1070
40707 -   PHASEII                     9 A            I         LCS                                    9                                                                  3000 m000
IC        Zoa1 lN                onr          1990                          1090
NATIONAL CAPITAL  ~ ~      ~       ~       Ii11   _0raaoh                    aol    *~26000                             2000
-                                    ~~~~~~~          ~         ~~     ~~~~PHASEII                                                _ AINLCPTL12   12  Orjrr         Gar,-skhiraal  ikoo                        10800
Oagra0  'L.~~~~~~~~                                           .1                                                                              -~~~~~ON-   EIOLES                                                   13   14  Mokkrar,               raloldrola    3900                3900~~~~~~~~~~RVER  1    14Wlh  300  90
_ ; 0%                                                                                                PHASEIJ .                         GLACIER AREAS                                              PaMILarLao RiarrsoSOoro                      90,460   16,330   35,920    38,270
N's r,_   .>   _;  \   - -                                 -    -   INTERNATIONAL8OUNDARIES                                   DroLootoRoIrbiIiIoior
Piaarrda9                                              GudauLN ' o </ % ;J+ 5~ 5I 14    a  RiarI-b,_Claki                                                                                                                                                                                          La,,?hEoIui    969050   20300    3950       3970
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~15   11 bRior-~CSaIi  6 Qor   0000
-43:                                                                                                                        mf. UA6.aosada/                                                                                                                                    1          K d blar, Shoro-Er-oa - 300                                       30
-L-- --, r,       -                   Alt U A                      4                                                                                                                      7   3a  R-,r2 Khab, LCha;d,dJ_ Khaob,        5570      1700     3870
Oh      -              Masta        J                                                                                                                     It   31,  Riani-Ekoal lMagabrobaj Khaki         630                          650~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kh6i-  60-65
43020'                                                                                                                                                                                                                    19SuhEml -f 43"- .Kbak,-frsor  ,  s~#4 i,   434983I  _ ,4i59       3350      100
2           __  ~~~~    Oh   &e\414                                                                                                                20   3   Alaha                    LAk          428                     -      200
Erra-Propo                                -    /             ,,-                                        /  .- g '\ 4                               RUSSIAN    FEDERATION                                                         210  Tornah   -' REDor6S_                      4770               4770
K-P,                                                                                                                                                                                                                  33,670    3,730   15,940    14,000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aoLriag  RhhLIILa3340  ,30 594  4,0
-  9TI,.I,  rt               '  .  .           ,                  -       -.                                                                                            Noriorol Program tar AAa.ohll               40,000   40,0
work        kj             I                         ,,,,, h' -S  ,6Eoto                                                                                                                         orProgram"                      9 0   50,000 Ebh     Pg   9   0  40,000
Ca-b9L                      ovi,/         _            ,I                  ,,,,ri >         draml K           ) /                 6               /      P  L.                                                                            I/r |rarraa]/haooslNyao,a0,o Ia,hora
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ !                                            a                                              cakorJ                          p       -                                     .J                            N.                                                            amo,rrdorrar   Mslaroroo0o  hor  haL,      \ ,_v~~
|      S e a                                                  0 0'>ps<    2X076 ;                                                                                                                    a                         <                                ;f.,,.                                                       p-069hira 
/N" Zq   /d-,4                                  NN                         ,7AN  K-iihr Rahh,IIrrPorradogaur  4ed  hor
Ia0ogad~~~~~~~~~               ,,              >.               EO           <a,A                                                                                     *                                 -Ihdoa6oror,-Ilroiaalaoa   fhrooroord-rA -A    l
.   FEDERATIOS   , ._    u                                                                                     2          NmCCTSm;f >-- j 00                                                                       r,                          /                dorrar
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o( aAC,,
| ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ a,ok _rr 'Tb j,   5_.  ---  Ih 'UrolDll[b, W                              \ \,                                                                                  ;E   &                                                                   rE       :4
Sre         a of,0  -o >,ENO A    !o oa~                                                                                                            ,f 41lt IO ,dnmuln  n  ;                
ZST UdR-K E Y                                                                                                                                                    .d_ 17  . \   \, Z I  lwf mm  otan mmm y   01    i  O  45  f O  75 KILOMETERS   ?  i   A  Z  E R B A  I J A,N
42                                                                                         - _4                                                                        '~,~~)  __    _ .~hr                                                                       P. acelc                -U                   0 \                                                02_
_   , SYRIAN ARAS REfT   IRAQ    k    ISIAMICNREPoOF IRKha42roa04\                                                                                                                            44r45E                                                                       K                        -    fOJUE2
S  e  a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~aug,                                                   ~ '",kh 9N~                                                                                  jy,rkh0N
42~~~~~                                                                     14      Akho, ~~~~~~~~~~~~VN,,,~,'
KI                                       G
16                 ~                ,7                                    ~       Rqrr                                      
N               Ni Cakro,a ..
UKRAINE           -.3                                 KAZAKHSTAN                                       0      ~      __        ,< l                                  )         ,,                                                           i,/                                                                    DbdlapiI6.Trk-ra
RUSSIAN             e                                         4                                                                    o\ N             N, 
FEDERATION-                                         N                                                                                                         arrka                        ,,         Dora/                            -
TURKEY ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~TRE                                                                                                         ri*0\&~
ISLAMii        IC.   RE.O   RN                                       42sO4,O                                                         ,-'  'N
Oo4dgarorbaaooraara  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  i  A~~~~JNE20



