                                          Documentof
                                       The World Bank

                              FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                          ReportNo: 32490-GE




                                       PROJECTPAPER

                                             ONA

                        PROPOSEDADDITIONAL IDAFINANCING

                                    INTHEAMOUNT OF
          SDR2.1 MILLIONCREDIT (US$3.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT) AND
             SDR 1.4MILLIONGRANT (UStS2.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO

                                          GEORGIA

                                           FORAN

       IRRIGATIONAND DRAINAGE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                          June 6,2005




Environmentallyand SociallySustainableDevelopmentSectorUnit
SouthCaucasus CountryUnit
EuropeandCentralAsia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World
Bankauthorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate EffectiveMay 2005)


                         Currency Unit = Georgian Lari (GEL)
                             GEL1.82 = US$1
                           US$1.485 = SDR1

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1   - December31




                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AA     AmeliorationAssociation
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
DASM   Department o fAmelioration Scheme Management
EMP    Environmental Management Plan
IDA    IntemationalDevelopment Association
IDCDP  IrrigationandDrainage Community Development Project
M O A  MinistryofAgriculture
PTU    Project Technical Unit
SDR    Special DrawingRights
UN     UnitedNations




                      Vice President    Shigeo Katsu
                    Country Director    DonnaM.Dowsett-Coirolo
                     Sector Manager     JuergenVoegele
                         Task Leader    Joop Stoutjesdijk

                                                                                        FOROFFlcLALUSEONLY

                                                           GEORGIA
       Irrigation andDrainageCommunityDevelopmentProjectAdditionalFinancing




                                                          CONTENTS



                                                                                                                                                   Page

  A .   INTRODUCTION              .............................................................................................................          1

  B .   BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FORADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                                                   ................1
     1. ProjectDataandPerformance ............................................................................................                           1
    2. RecentFloods......................................................................................................................                2

  C .    PROPOSEDCHANGES                     ..................................................................................................          3

  D .    CONSISTENCYWITH CAS                          ..........................................................................................         5

  E .    APPRAISALOF MODIFIED PROJECTACTIVITIES ADDED AS PARTOF
         PROJECTRESTRUCTURING                             ......................................................................................         6
     1.  Technical............................................................................................................................. 6
    2. Institutional ......................................................................................................................... 6
     3.  Environment........................................................................................................................             7
    4. Social................................................................................................................................... 8

  F .    EXPECTEDOUTCOMES                         ..............................................................................................         8

   G.    BENEFITSAND RISKS                    ..................................................................................................         8

  H .    FINANCIALTERMS AND CONDITIONSFORTHE ADDITIONAL
         FINANCING        .....................................................................................................................          9

  ANNEX 1: LIST OFPRIORITY LOCATIONS                                        ....................................................................        10


  MAP. 34081
         IBRD




This document has a restricted distributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                .
without World Bank authorization                       .


                                           GEORGIA
      IrrigationandDrainageCommunityDevelopmentProjectAdditionalFinancing

                               PROJECTPAPERDATA SHEET




Does the restructured or scaled-up project require any exceptions from
Bank policies?                                                                 .Yes     oNo
Havethesebeen approved by Bank management?                                     .Yes     oNo
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                   oYes .No




The expectedoutcomes ofthe additional component would be: (i) returnflood-damaged
                                                                    to
irrigationinfrastructure to operational conditions that guarantee the water abstraction and
deliveryto a command areaof 50,000 ha, serving about 60,000 farm families; and(ii) return
                                                                                        to
flood-damaged river embankments to fully operational conditions thereby protecting an
estimated 20 villages with 15,000 households and large areas with public andprivate
infrastructure.
Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger anynew safeguardpolicies? No

Total    3.90    2.30    6.20

A. INTRODUCTION

        This ProjectPaperseeks the approval ofthe Executive Directors to provide additional
IDAfinancingconsisting of SDR2.1 million (US $3 millionequivalent) credit and SDR 1.4
million(US $2 millionequivalent) grant to the GeorgiaIrrigationandDrainage Community
Development Project (IDCDP; Project ID- P055068, Credit 3542-GE).

        The proposed additional credit andgrant would help finance the costs associatedwith the
restructuring o f IDCDP to urgentlyaddress reconstruction o f flood protectionembankmentsand
irrigationheadworks and conveyance canals that havebeendestroyed or severely damagedby
unusually heavy springfloods inGeorgia. There wouldbeno changeto the ongoing project
activities. Most o fthe remaining funds have beencommitted, with a largenumber of contracts
ongoing, and it wouldbe important to complete ongoing activities as plannedinorder to achieve
the original project development objective. The new component, to be implemented inparallel
withthe original components, would also beimplementedbythe DepartmentofAmelioration
SchemeManagement (DASM) through its fully staffedProject Technical Unit(PTU) that has
sufficient technical and fiduciary capacity.

        The expectedoutcomes are: (i)   to retumflood-damaged irrigation infrastructure to
operational conditions that guaranteethe water abstraction anddeliveryto a command areao f
50,000 ha, serving about 60,000 f m families; and(ii) returnflood-damaged river
                                                        to
embankmentsto fully operational conditions therebyprotecting anestimated 20 villages with
15,000 households and large areas with public andprivate infrastructure.

B. BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALEFORADDITIONAL FINANCING

1. ProjectDataandPerformance

        IDCDPwas approved on June 28,2001, with a credit amount o f SDR 21.3 million (US
$27 millionequivalent at the time o fnegotiations). Theprojectbecame effective onFebruary
20,2002 andthe current closing date i s April 30,2007. Almost 40 percent o f the credit funds
havebeendisbursedto date. Most ofthe remainingfunds have beencommitted, with a large
numberofcontracts ongoing.

        Theproject's originaldevelopment objective isto increase agricultural productionand
farm incomes on about 110,000 habyarresting further deterioration ofirrigationanddrainage
infrastructure andkeepingthe operable infrastructure functional. This i s to be achieved through
rehabilitation andmodernization o f irrigation and drainage infrastructure invarious systems
across the country, andestablishment o f and support to Arnelioration Associations (AA) that will
be empowered to take charge o fthe management o f lower order irrigation anddrainage systems.
The mainirrigation anddrainage systemrehabilitationprogrami s well underway, and ifthe
agreedimplementation schedulecan bemaintainedit is expected that all contracts for the
rehabilitation ofhigherorder irrigation and drainage systems, commanding anaggregate areao f
20,100 ha, canbe completed around the current closingdate. Establishment ofA A s has
exceededexpectations. There are already 250 registeredAAs, covering about 215,000 ha. These
A A s need much awarenessandtraining inorder to develop into participatory and independent

member-driven entities. The trainingprogram for A A s is now fully operational. The
rehabilitationof AA-managed systemshas also startedwith the implementation of self-generated
Development Plans for improvement of lower order irrigation and drainage systems. It is
expectedthat Development Planswill cover 60,000 hao f AA-managed systems.

         There havebeen no changes to the project development objective so far, but the scope o f
the main irrigationand drainage infrastructure rehabilitation component was broadenedlast
summer with the additiono fthe rehabilitation o f a major water control structure adjacent to the
drainage areas coveredunder the project near Poti onthe Black Sea. About U S $2.0 million of
the originalcredit amount was allocated to provideurgentrehabilitationo fthe structure that was
at risk o fcollapsingdue to large voids under the main structure and apartly destroyed
downstream apron. As a result o fthe project measures, though not fully completed, the structure
has heldduringthe recent floods.

         The implementation ofIDCDPis satisfactory, with implementation progressand
achievement o f the project development objective bothrated satisfactory. The only time
implementation progress was rated unsatisfactorywas for a short period at the end of 2003 when
the financial performance was highlyunsatisfactory. This was, however, immediately rectified
bythe new govemment inearly 2004. Rehabilitated systems will allow water supply at required
times and quantities, which will take away an important limitation for agricultural production.
The AA programhas createdconsiderable interest among farmers and a realization that
seriousness is required to keep the rehabilitated infrastructure operational. It i s too early to
measurethe impact inthe irrigationschemes. Preliminary data for one o f the drainage schemes
that was completed two years ago shows that maize yields have increased from 1.5 tonha before
rehabilitation to up to 4 tonlha after rehabilitation andthat for the first time in 15 years farmers
hada surplus o fmaize that was sold on the localmarket. Basedon the current project status,
there is a considerable likelihood that the project development objective will be achieved,
although there i s some concem about the long-term sustainability o fthe irrigation anddrainage
systems ifthe inadequatemaintenance budget i s not addressed, through a combination o fhigher
central budget allocation and increasedusers' fees. This will continue to be a maindiscussion
topic during future IDAimplementation review missions.

         There are no fiduciary or safeguardissues andthere is compliance with credit covenants.

2. Recent Floods

         Georgia hasbeenhardhit byunusually major flooding since mid-April,especially inthe
east andwest ofthe country. Floods are typically causedby a combination o f snowmelt and
rainfall, This year, with a large snowpack, highspringtemperatures that causedrainfall at higher
elevations and fast snowmelt, andheavy andprolonged rainfall over large sections ofthe
catchment areas o fseveral o fthe major river systems, the floods reached levels estimatedup to
one inhundredyears returnperiods incertain rivers. The natural disasterscauseddestruction or
severe damage o finfrastructure, includingwashing out o f flood protectionworks, roads, and
bridges, damaging o f irrigationheadworks and canals, andinundatingo f agricultural landsand
villages, affecting thousandso fhectareso f farmlands, often inthe poorest areas o fthe country.
The flooding is still ongoing, anddetailed data about the damage is stillbeingcompiled. The



                                                   2

government has pledged to allocate GEL 20 million for floodrelief andcompensation o f affected
people, andrehabilitationworks to roads andbridges,but muchmore will beneeded especially
for longer-term rehabilitationo f damagedinfrastructure, whichis why the government appealed
to the internationalcommunity for assistanceinthe rebuildingefforts. The Bankreceived a
letter datedApril 28,2005 from the Minister o fAgriculture requesting assistance for the rural
population, and a letter dated May 25,2005 from the Minister o fFinance reiterating an earlier
verbal request to assistwith reconstruction o fdestroyed or severely damagedman-made river
flood embankments and irrigationheadworks andcanals.

        Two distinct types of flooding were reported, namely flooding inthe lowlands and
flooding inthe mountainous areas. The flooding inthe lowlands o fWestern Georgia hasbeen
prolonged, destroying or severely weakening sectionsof embankmentsalong several rivers,
includingthe major Rioni and Tskhenistskali Rivers. DASM is incharge o fmaintenance of
these river embankments, but currently lacks the budgetfor the proper upkeep. The conditionof
stretches o f embankments is such that, without urgent attention, flooding andinundationcould
become a recurring event, even when floods do not reach extreme levels. One impact ofthis
wouldbethat it wouldput at risk the drainage schemes that arebeingrehabilitated with funding
fromIDCDP.

        Floods inthe mountainous areas had a different character, with short-duration flash
floods comingdown the mountainous streams. This causedlocalized flooding, river bank
erosion, and damage to physicalinfrastructure such as roads, bridges, water supply systems,
houses, and schools. When the floods are exceptional, as this year, such natural disasters cause
widespread physical damage, as well as hardshipto the populationo f districts that belong to the
poorest inGeorgia. Responsibility for maintenance ofriver banksi s not clearly definedas it
rests with several agencies, includingDASM, Department o fRoads, andLocal Government.

        A numberof major irrigationworks underDASM's managementwere damagedbythe
floods. None o fthe structures are inthe originalproject areao f IDCDP. Some structures are not
able to divert irrigationwater anymore, while others are now unstable, with a highrisk of
destructionduringthe next floods, which would then take large irrigationcommand areas out of
production.

C. PROPOSEDCHANGES

        A component ofUS $6.20 million would be addedto IDCDP, inresponseto the
unusually heavyfloods, to finance urgent works to safeguard lives, andpublic andprivate
property. The restructuring i s beingprocessedunder OPlBP 8.50 -Emergency Recovery
Assistance. Theproposed new component would reconstruct flood protectionembankments and
irrigationheadworks and conveyance canals that have been destroyed or severely damagedby
the recent floods. The development objective o fthe proposed additional component would be to
improve and securethe sustainability o friver flood protectionworks and irrigation headworks
and canals, which, ifunattended, could leadto increased flooding occurrences andinfrastructure
damage, and subsequenthumanlife and economic losses. The Additional Financingwould
enable strengthening o friver embankmentsat critical locations along major rivers (including
Rioni, Tskhenistskali, andtributarieso fthe Alazani). Several o fthe targeted embankments have



                                                3

been completely destroyed and ifreconstruction is not carried out before the 2006 flood season,
large areas would be flooded duringthe peak o fthe next flood season. Other embankmentshave
been severely damaged by the floods and would almost certainly be fully destroyed duringthe
next flood seasonunless they are urgentlyrehabilitated. Therefore, sections o friver
embankmentswouldhave to bereconstructed before the springo f2006, for which financing i s
urgentlyrequired, while other embankmentswould bestrengthenedduringthe next ninemonths
inorder to withstandthe 2006 floods andthenbecompletedto full design standardsafter the
2006 floods. Duringproject implementationDASMwould also prepare a detailed inventoryof
the conditiono f all river embankmentsto beput ina computerized database and, together with
other concerned agencies, prepareproper flood warning andevacuationplans for populated areas
intheproject areas. Itisnot excludedthat theproposedcomponent would cany out someriver
bankprotection along someo fthe mountainousrivers as well, incase this is identifiedbythe
government and IDA as a priority after compilingthe final flood damageinformationat the end
o fthe flood seasoninJuly.

        The new component would also rehabilitate several flood-damaged irrigationheadworks
and canals. These structures are currently unable to abstractand convey the requiredwater to
irrigationareas or are at a highrisk o f destruction duringnext floods. DASMi s putting some
temporary repairs inplace to allow at least some abstractionduringthe 2005 irrigation season,
but urgent and full rehabilitation would have to be carried out after the irrigation season, to be
financed from the Additional Financing.

        Annex 1presents a list o f locations that havebeen identified so far as priorities by the
government and couldbe coveredunder the project, but there would be certain flexibility during
project implementation incase sub-projects are identified after the flood seasonthat have clear
flood-related damage andthe reconstruction o fwhich would have higher impact than other sub-
projects on the priority list. The works to be carried out shouldprovide complete protection for a
certain area and should be well constructed inorder to be durable andprovide long-term
protection to the ruralpopulationandpublic andprivate infrastructure or, inthe case o firrigation
systems, be able to provide the neededirrigationwater to farmers. The proposed component
would introduce innovative andcost effective design and construction measures. The new
component would allow the government, partners such as the UNDisaster Management Team,
andIDA,utilizingits world-wide experiences, to discussopportunities to putinplacebetter
institutionalarrangements for the management andupkeep o friverbankprotectionsystems.

        ThePTUof IDCDP, which hasperformed satisfactorily so far, wouldberesponsible for
the implementationo fthe additional component, inclose cooperation with DASMand other
agencies as needed, such as Local Governments.




                                                  4

        The indicative costs are presentedinthe table below.

                  Component                        Indicative              IDA Financing
                                                       costs            Credit          Grant
                                                    (US'$m)             US$^)          (US$m)
A. Reconstruction ofRiverProtection and
    IrrigationInfrastructure
  A.1.River embankments to protect                      3.75             1.40           1.60
        irrigatiom`agricultural landand               (60%)
        village infrastructure
  A.2. IrrigationHeadworks andCanals                    2.00             1.60
                                                      (32%)
  A.3. Design and Construction Supervision              0.30                            0.25
                                                       (5%)
B. ProjectManagement andImplementation                  0.15                            0.15
    support                                            (3%)
              Total Project Costs                       6.20             3.OO           2.00
                                                     (100%)

        Considering the requiredfocus of the implementingagency on the additional component
duringthe next two years, theremaybe some delays incompleting the originalproject
components. Therefore, the closing date o f IDCDPwould be extendedto April 30, 2008.
Nevertheless, there is aneed for urgency with the implementation o fthe newlyproposed
component, as it has to be guaranteedthat a reasonable amount ofthe reconstruction works are
fully completedbefore the 2006 springfloods, andtheremainderbefore the 2007 spring floods.
TheproposedAmendments to the Development Credit Agreement includeprovisions for
maximumretro-active financing. Survey anddesign ofthe highest priority works have already
started.

D. CONSISTENCYWITH CAS

        The last CAS (Report No.. 170O0-GE7dated September22, 1997) was approved by the
Boardon October 21, 1997. Nearlyhalfo f Georgia's populationlives inrural areas, most o f
whom are involved inagricultural activities. IDA has supported a range o f investments inrural
areas, but significant impedimentsto rural development remain, which are exacerbatedby severe
natural disasters.

        The 2004 progressreport on the implementationo fthe NationalPoverty Reduction
Strategy describes a small increaseinruralpoverty, and increasedhardshipanddeterioration o f
conditions inrural areas. The government is committed to implementingpolicies that will
reducepovertyandhardshipinthe rural areas, which would, inter alia, require that the flood
occurrences at critical locations are minimizedand that flood-damaged irrigationsystems are
operational inorder to guaranteethe livelihoodo fthe ruralpopulationand avoidmigrationout o f
the areas where risks o f flooding are greatest. This i s consistent with the proposed CAS for
FY06-09, which has as its maingoal the reductiono f extreme andoverall poverty. This CAS is
scheduledfor Boardreview on September 15,2005.


                                                  5

E. APPRAISAL OFMODIFIEDPROJECTACTIVITIES ADDED AS PARTOF
    PROJECTRESTRUCTURING

1. Technical

        A large number ofpotential sites were visitedbyIDAtask teammembersandthe critical
nature o f the proposedworks was confirmed. It was agreedwith management and specialists o f
DASMthat appropriate designs would be selected for eacho fthe sites, which would be durable
andrequire low maintenance. Initialindicators arethat therewould besignificant use ofReno
mattresses, which i s a known construction material inGeorgia. Preliminarydesigns o f 14o fthe
visited sites were preparedby the PTUengineers, reviewedbythe IDAteam, and discussedwith
DASMtechnical officers andIDCDP's design engineeringconsultants, who showed
receptiveness andunderstanding to prepare the detailed designs.

        IDCDP's PTUhas already contracted many civil works andhas thus considerable
knowledge o fmarket-basedunitrates. The current unitcosts have beenusedfor the cost
estimates for the potential works o fthe new component. Physical contingencies o f 10percent
were taken into account to take care o f adjustments that maybe necessary, basedon detailed
topographic surveys and designs. Furthermore, there would be considerable flexibility to adjust
for any cost overruns as the project consists o fmany independent sub-projects, some o fwhich, if
necessary, could be excluded from the project without affecting other sub-projects.

        Experience has shown that sound engineering design, good resourceplanning, and
effective management for implementation typically produces good results, enhancing not only
the nation's long-term infrastructural assets, but also its stock o f engineering and contracting
expertise. It was agreedthat timely project implementation would depend on goodproject
planning. Proper account shouldbetaken ofthe needto haltworks duringthe flood seasonor
winter season. The sequenceo fconstructionworks should alsobe carefullyplannedby
contractors so that at times when floods are likely to occur the completed works would be ina
state capable o fwithstandingthem.

2. Institutional

        Senior managemento fthe Ministryo fAgriculture (MOA) andDASMare committedto
the proposedactivities and hasparticipated fully duringproject preparation and appraisal.
Through the implementation o fthe IDCDP, many staff o fDASMat nationalandregional levels
have gained experienceinthe implementation o finvestment projects.

        The PTUis staffed with national experts, recruited on a competitive basis. Ithas
adequateprocurement anddisbursement staff and systemsinplace that would be able to cover
the additional component as well. A recent procurement post-review confirmedthe adequacyof
procurement arrangements, revealing only minor issues. Independent audits have been
unqualifiedandfinancial management staff is performingwell. A team o f engineers inthe PTU
would be responsible for the overall technical management o f the component andthe supervision
of design andconstruction supervision engineering firms. Some incremental staff may be
neededto implementthe additional component. Under IDCDP, two consultingfirms are



                                                 6

employed, both of which have experiencewith the design ofriver bank protectionworks. Their
contracts would be amendedto provide design andconstruction supervision support for the
additional component as well. The PTUwould also contract a short-term international
consultant to provide anumber o finputsduringkeyperiods to provide quality control ofthe
design and construction works. This would include review o fdesign parameters and draft
designs.

3. Environment

        The additional component would finance reconstruction andrehabilitationof destroyed
anddamagedinfrastructure. Nonewstructuresare envisaged. The component would not
include any investments indams or involveresettlement. The proposed component hasbeen
classified as Category "B" for the purposesof OP 4.01, similar to the originalproject. While due
diligence for IDCDPi s coveredby an Environmental Impact Assessment, includingan
Environmental Management Plan(EMP) prepared in2001, the Additional Financing would
include activities not fully addressedbythe current EMP. Giventhe emergency nature o fthe
proposed component and since civilworks under this Additional Financingdo not represent
significant environmental risk, ECA management has agreedto a delay inthe completion and
disclosure o fthe updated EMP fi-omthe normal appraisal stage, instead makingthis a condition
ofcreditlgrant disbursement. Such exemptions are allowedunder paragraph 12of OP 4.01
(Emergency Recovery Projects; Environmental Assessment). Itwas agreed, however, that the
implementingagencywill addressthe updateof the EMPas soon as possible, well aheadof
effectiveness.

        Duringthe designstageofeachsub-project allpossible environmental factors wouldbe
reviewed. Necessarymitigatingmeasureswouldbe anintegral part o fdesign and
implementation. Fromvisits to the potential sub-projects, it is expectedthat typically minor
potential negative impacts of the component would relate to: (i) of excavated sediments
                                                                 disposal
and construction materials; and (ii)possible environmental damage causedby contractors during
construction activities. Sediments andother debris would bedisplaced inan orderly manner,
rather thandumpedindiscriminately. Contractors would berequiredto prevent, minimize, or
mitigate environmental damage. This would bedescribed inthe tender documents, for which
there are establishedpractices under the ongoing project. The PTUemploys an environmental
specialist who would also be made responsible to oversee the additional component with regard
to environmental aspects andensurethat the proposedworks would cause no damage to the
environment.

        InaccordancewiththeBank's policyonInternational Waterways (OP 7.50) notification
ofripariancountries is not required. Most o fthe sub-projects are located inthe catchment area
of western Georgia that drains into the Black Sea. The proposed works would not adversely
changethe quality or quantity of water flows, and would not change the nature o fthe original
sub-projects or alter or expandthe scope and extent as to create a new or different scheme. In
addition, works for river bankprotectionare concerned with flood protection, not flood control,




                                                7

4. Social

        The government, withinternational support, hasquickly actedto respondto the needs of
families who had lost homes and other property due to the flooding. Inaddition, it is movingto
restore damaged roads. IDAwould focus on the reconstruction o fphysical structures relatedto
irrigationand flood protection. The design and implementation wouldbebasedon the analysis
of the existingdamage andthe application of agreedtechnical specifications, which would
require little local inputor formal social assessment. Project staffwould consult with
communities and local administrations to describeplannedworks. Duringimplementation, the
project could include a community monitoringprogramthat would aim at engaging local
residents inthe regular checking o f structures, e.g. checking the conditions o fReno mattressesat
regular intervals to capture damage early on. Contractors are expectedto provide significant
short-term employment to localpeople, which would beo fbenefit inareas o fhigh
unemployment.

F. EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

        The proposed changeswould not affect the originalproject outcomes.

        The expected outcomes for the additional component would be: (i)     to return flood-
damagedirrigationinfrastructure to operational conditions therebyguaranteeingwater
abstraction and conveyance; and (ii)   to return. flood-damaged river embankmentsto fully
operational conditions. The key outcome indicators to bemeasuredinclude: (i)command area
                                                                                   a
o f 50,000 ha, serving about 60,000 farm families, servedwith required irrigationwater; and (ii)
flood hazardsremoved for 20 villages, with 15,000 households andlarge areas with public and
private infrastructure. The outcome indicators havebeen estimated basedonthe preliminary list
of sub-projects, covering nine irrigationheadworks or canals and twelve river embankment
sections. As indicated, higherpriority sub-projects may be selectedthat would changethe final
outcome indicators. The outcome indicators would be measuredbythe PTU, inclose
cooperationwith DASM field staffand local government staff.

G. BENEFITSAND RISKS

        The major risk associatedwith the additionalcomponent would be insufficientbudget for
the future maintenance o f irrigationandriver embankment infrastructure. Inorder to reduce this
risk, the project would introduce engineering solutions that are durable with little maintenance,
while IDA, as parto fits reviewo f all IDCDP activities, would continue to discuss with
government the needto increasethe maintenance budgetof DASM.

        A modestrisk wouldrelate to uncertaincapacity o flocalcontractors to implement sub-
projects. Therehas been goodparticipationo f a large group o f contractors under IDCDP. As
part o fthe project, local contractors have already received training incompetitive bidding
processes. Most sub-projects would berelatively small andcontractors typically remain with a
large fleet ofconstruction equipment, albeit old. The works would also berelativelyrepetitive,




                                                    8

requiringmuchlocalunskilledlabor that is inample supplyinthe rural areas. Necessary
trainingto contractors would beprovidedbyDASM andPTUstaff and consulting engineers,

H. FINANCIALTERMSAND CONDITIONSFORTHEADDITIONAL FINANCING

       U S $2 million would beprovided as a grant. U S $3 million would beprovidedas acredit
with a 40 years maturity, including 10years grace, a servicechargeof 0.75 percent, and
commitment fee not to exceed0.5 percent.

       There are no effectiveness conditions. Theproposed component complies with all Bank
policies.




                                               9

              District                               Structure                               Type
            K h O n i   Reconstructiono fthe downstream apron, stilling well and gate No2  Irrigation
                        o f Matkhoji Headworks at Khoni-Samtredia Irrigation Scheme
                        damagedby the TskhenistskaliRiver
                        Reconstructiono fthe embankment andspurs downstream                Irrigation
                        MatkhojiHeadworks damaged bythe Tskhenistskali River
                        Protection o fthe headworks o fthe Khoniwater supply system        Irrigation
            Martvili    Reconstructiono f embankments and submerged spurs near            Embankment
                        Lekhaindrao Village andNagvazao Village damaged by the
                        Tskhenistskali River
            Samtredia   Reconstructiono fa 150 msection o f the damaged embankment on     Embankment
                        the rightbank of the Rioni River near Akhalsopeli Village
                        Reconstructiono fa 500 msection o f the damaged embankment on     Embankment
                        the right bank o fthe Rioni River near Dzveli Samtredia Village
            Tskhaltubo  Enforcement o f the damaged Geguti Irrigation Scheme Headworks     Irrigation
                        anda 150msection o f the maincanal
 Samegrelo  Khobi       Construction of a 700 msection o f the damaged embankment and     Embankment
~
                        bankprotectiontraining spurs onthe left bank ofthe RioniRiver
                        near the Patara-Poti Village (Adjarians' Settlement)
                        Reconstruction of embankments and spurs onthe rightbank o fthe    Embankment
                        RioniRiver near the Patara PotiVillage
                        Reconstruction o fembankments and spurs on the rightbank ofthe
                                                                            -             Embankment
                        Rioni River near the SagvamichioVillage
                        Reconstruction o fa 60 msection o fthe damaged embankment and    IEmbankment
                        enforcing it with gabions on the KhobistskhacRiver near the
                        KhorgaVillage
 Kakheti    Telavi      Construction o fa service road embankment and training walls of   Embankment
                        the reinforced concrete bridge damagedbythe Didkhevi River near
                        the Artana Village
                        Reconstruction o fthe sectionnear the Naurdali Canal aqueduct      Irrigation
                        damaged by the Didikhevi River
            Akhmeta     Reconstruction o fthe damaged stilling well, downstream apron and  Irrigation
                        other structures downstreamthe weir dam onthe IltoRiver
                        Reconstruction o fthe embankment damaged by the Alazani River     Embankment
                        near the Villages o fZemo Alvani and Kvemo Alvani
            Lagodekhi   Reconstruction-reinforcement of structures (made by gabions and   Embankment
                        lined with reinforced concrete slabs) damaged by the Kabala River
                        over 1,000 m
 Kartli     Samachablo  Reconstruction ofthe concrete walls and a water intake on the      Irrigation
                        Kekhvi Headworks andKheiti-Tamarasheni aqueduct damaged by
                        the DidiLiakhvi River
            Gori        Reconstruction ofthe embankment damaged by the DidiLiakhvi        Embankment
                        River near the Karbiheadworks
            Kaspi       Reconstruction o fthe embankment damaged by the KsaniRiver        Embankment
                        near the Penna Village
            Adgeni      Reconstruction o fGorgula-Arali Headworks                          Irrigation
 /Kartli
 Javakheti
 Kvemo      Marneuli    Reconstruction o fthe damaged DebedaHeadworks and its gate on       Irrigation
                        the Debeda River




                                                    10



