Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3542-1 GE 
 
GRANT NUMBER H176 GE 
 
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement
 
(Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project) 
 
between 
 
GEORGIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 27, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3542-1 GE 
GRANT NUMBER H176 GE 
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 2005 between GEORGIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Irrigation and Drainage Community Development 
Project) (Credit Number 3542 GE) dated October 5, 2001 (the Development Credit 
Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project and the Association agrees to provide an 
additional Credit and a Grant upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;  
 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Grant be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the 
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit are made; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Amending Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement 
 
Section 1.01. Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“A. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of 
the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the 1999 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement and apply to the Initial 
Financing (as hereinafter defined). 
 
B. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of 
the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement and apply in respect of the Additional Financing (hereinafter defined): 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit Agreement, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under the Credit, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Association’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds 
of its credits.  To that end, if the Association shall at any time determine that the amount 
of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such 
item in the Development Credit Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy 
of the Association.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Section 2.01. of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to thirty million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 30,300,000) (the Financing) consisting of: (i) an original amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty one million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 21,300,000) (the Initial Financing); (ii) an additional amount in various 
currencies equivalent to five million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 5,400,000) (the Additional Credit); and (iii) an additional amount of three million 
six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,600,000) (the Grant) (the 
Additional Credit and the Grant referred to collectively the Additional Financing).” 
 
Section 1.03. Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and the amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account, in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing.
”
Section 1.04. A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 2 to read as follows: 
Page  4
-
3
-
“(c) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Part D of the Project, open 
and maintain in Dollars two separate additional special deposit accounts, one for the 
Additional Credit (Special Account A), and one for the Grant (Special Account B), in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
2
to this Agreement.”  
 
Section 1.05. The Closing Date set forth in Section 2.03 of the Development 
Credit Agreement shall be extended to “April 30, 2008.” 
 
Section 1.06.  Section 2.04 (a) and (b) of the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association:  (i) a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Financing (the Credit, the Additional Credit and the 
Grant) not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 
30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) 
per annum. 
 
(b) 
Each commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or the Grant Account (as 
the case may be), or canceled; provided, however, that the commitment charge on the 
Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the 
Amending Agreement; and (ii) at the respective rate set as of the June 30 immediately 
preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The respective rate set as of June 30 in each 
year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.07. The word “Credit” referred to in Section 2.07 (a), (b) and (c) of the 
Development Credit Agreement is deleted and replaced with the words “Initial 
Financing”. 
 
Section 1.08. Section 2.08 of the Development Credit Agreement is renumbered 
as Section 2.09, and a new Section 2.08 is added, to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Additional 
Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 
commencing November 15, 2015 and ending May 15, 2045. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on May 15, 2025 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount.” 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 1.09. Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval.” 
 
Section 1.10.  Paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the 
Credit) of the Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended as set forth in the 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and a new paragraph A.5 is added to read as follows:  
 
“5.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: (i) payments made for expenditures prior to this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding: (A) the equivalent of 
SDR 420,000 may be made out of the proceeds of the Additional Credit in respect of 
Category 1 for Part D of the Project on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after June 1, 2005, save for the provisions set forth in sub-paragraph 
(ii) below; and (B) the equivalent of SDR 280,000 may be made out of the proceeds of 
the Grant in respect of Categories (1), (4), (5) and (6) for Part D of the Project on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 2005; and (ii)  
payments to be financed out of the resources of the Additional Credit or Grant under 
Category (1) unless the Borrower has provided the Association an environmental 
management plan satisfactory to the Association for the works to be carried out under 
Part D of the Project.” 
 
 
Section 1.11.  In Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement, an additional 
objective is added at the end of the first paragraph to read as follows: 
 
….”; and improve and secure the sustainability of river flood protection works 
and irrigation headworks and canals.”  
 
Section 1.12. In Schedule 2, a new Part is added to the Project and a new Project 
completion date to read as follows: 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
“Part D
:
Reconstruction of flood-damaged irrigation and river embankment infrastructure
(a) 
Reconstruction of flood-damaged irrigation headworks and conveyance 
canals to restore and guarantee the original design capacities; (b) reconstruction of flood-
damaged river embankment works to provide flood protection as per applicable design 
parameters; and (c) provision of consulting services for design and construction 
supervision of the reconstruction works. 
 
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2007.” 
 
Section 1.13. In Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement, Section I, 
Part C.1 National Competitive Bidding, is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, provided 
however that works under Part D of Schedule 2 estimated to cost less then $1 million but 
more than $100,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines provided…..”(no change)  
 
Section 1.14. In Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement, Section I, 
Part C.2 and C.4 the aggregate thresholds set forth in line two of such paragraphs shall be 
deleted.  
 
Section 1.15. In Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement, Section I, 
Part C.6, Procurement of Small Works is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Works contracts estimated at $100,000 or less will be procured upon 
comparison of not less than three substantially responsive price quotations submitted by 
suitably qualified contractors. Invitations to quote shall include adequate description of 
the works to be performed and the required completion date, basic specifications, bill of 
quantity, drawings and a form of contract acceptable to the Bank. The contract shall be 
awarded to the contractor which offers the lowest price quotation for the work and who is 
deemed to have the capacity and resources to perform the contract successfully.” 
 
Section 1.16. In Schedule 3, Section II, Part C of the Development Credit 
Agreement, an additional paragraph 3 is added to read as follows: 
 
“Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the requirements of paragraph 
3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
Section 1.17. In Schedule 3, Section II, Part C an additional paragraph 4 is added 
to read as follows: 
Page  7
-
6
-
“Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7. of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association, 
namely, that this Amending Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower.  
 
Section 2.02.  As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of 
this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing on 
behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance 
of the evidence required pursuant to Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless 
the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If this Amending 
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not 
been executed. 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Tbilisi, Georgia as of the day and year first above written. 
 
GEORGIA 
 
By /s/ V. Roy Southworth 
 
Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Aleksi Aleksishvili 
 
Authorized 
Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
ANNEX  
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
“1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Initial Financing, the Additional Financing and the Grant, the allocation 
of the amounts of the Initial Financing, the Additional Financing and the Grant to each 
Category, and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category: 
 
Initial Additional 
 
 
 
Financing Credit 
Grant 
% 
of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR equivalent)
SDR equivalent
)
SDR equivalent
)
to be financed
(1) 
Works 
9,040,000 5,400,000 3,080,000 
80% 
 
(2) Development  
4,480,000 
 
 
 
80% of amounts 
  
 
Plans under 
  
 
 
 
disbursed under a 
 
Part B.1 of the 
 
  
 
 
Development Plan 
 
Project  
 
 
(3) Goods 
360,000 
 
 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures (ex-factory  
 
cost) and 80% of local  
 
expenditures for other  
 
items procured locally 
 
(4) Consultants’  
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
services and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
training  
 
(a) 
consultants’ 
1,300,000 
310,000   
80% for local firms 
 
services, including  
 
 
 
 
 
and individuals, 90% 
 
auditing services 
 
 
 
 
 
for foreign firms and  
 
individuals and 100%  
 
for eligible social  
 
charges 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Initial Additional 
 
 
 
Financing Credit 
Grant 
% 
of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR equivalent)
SDR equivalent
)
SDR equivalent
)
to be financed
(b)   training and 
480,000 
 
 
 
100% 
 study 
tours 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(5) Project Management 
1,890,000 
 
 
140,000 
80% for local firms 
 
Services 
 
 
 
 
 
and individuals, 90%  
 
for foreign firms and  
 
individuals and 100% 
 
for eligible social  
 
charges 
 
(6) Incremental Operating 
590,000 
 
70,000 
80% until 
 
Costs of the PCCCST 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2004   
 
and the IDPIU 
 
 
 
 
 
and 70% thereafter 
 
(7) Refunding of Project 
950,000 
 
 
 
 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Preparation Advance 
 
 
 
 
 
to Section 2.02 (b) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(8) Unallocated 
2,210,000
_________ 
________ 
    
 
TOTAL  
21,300,000
5,400,000
3,600,000
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Category (1) with respect to the 
Additional Financing and Categories 1, 4, 5 and 6 with respect to the Grant set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works and services required for Part D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Financing allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means  in respect of the Special 
Account A an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 and in respect of Special Account B an 
amount equivalent to $750,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
Page  12
-
11
-
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Grant 
Account or Credit Account and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Grant or Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Grant or Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit or Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Additional Financing allocated 
to the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant or Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
Page  13
-
12
-
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit or Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
