                                           GEORGIA
     Irrigation and DrainageCommunityDevelopmentProjectAdditional Financing

                             ADDENDUMTO PROJECT PAPER


 Purposeof the Addendum

         This addendum describes the proposal to increase the Additional Financing for the
 Irrigationand DrainageCommunity Development Project (IDCDP, P055068, IDA Credit
 3542-GE) from the initial levelo fU S $5 million equivalent byUS$ 8 million equivalent to a
 total level o f US $13 million equivalent due to additional and severeinfrastructuredamage
 from fbrther flooding inthe last three weeks inGeorgia. This increaseinfunding i s in
response to a direct request for additional assistance from the Government.

Background

         OnJune 13,2005, aProject Paper (Report No. 32490-GE) was circulated to the
Board (IDAIR2005-0143/1) proposing U S $5 million equivalent inadditional IDA financing
to Georgia for reconstruction of flood damaged infrastructure. The unusually heavy floods
caused destruction or severe damage to infrastructure, including washing out of flood
protectionworks (levees), roads, andbridges, damage to irrigationheadworks and canals,
andinundationof agricultural landsandvillages, affectingthousands ofhectares of
farmlands, often inthe poorest areas o fthe country. The government haspledgedto allocate
GEL20 million (US$ 11million equivalent) for immediate flood relief andcompensation o f
affectedpeople, andrehabilitationworks for roads andbridges.

         The Project Paperprovides a full descriptiono fthis additional financingincluding
the severity of the damage, the link o f this activity with povertyreductionand country
strategy, the request o fthe Government, the need for urgency, and an initial list ofpotential
activities.

CurrentSituation

         Inthepastthree weeks, torrentialrains, inmanyinstancesheavier thanthe April-
May rains, have continued inGeorgia causing continued severe flooding inmanyregions o f
the cobtry. As aresult, several additionalmajor irrigationworks andwater diversion
structures were damaged bythe floods. Some structures are not able to divert anymore
irrigation water, while others are now unstable, with a highrisk o f collapsing duringfuture
storms, taking large irrigation command areas out o fproduction. Additional flood
protection embankments o fvillages and agricultural lands have also been destroyed. The
poor state o f some o fthe levees has putnearbypublic infrastructure such as bridges and
roads at imminent risk. Severalflood embankmentsthat protect the water supply system of
Tbilisi have beendestroyed, resultingindamage to intake systems andpipelines andthis has
disruptedthe water supply to Tbilisi, whxh i s now experiencingwater shortages. While the
first proposed additional financing request covers urgentrehabilitationo f some key



                                              1

structures that were appraisedby the IDA task team, it i s now evident that a significantly
higher levelofemergency investments will benecessaryto repair major damageto
infrastructure causedby the subsequent floods. These later floods have also highlighted to
the govemment the needto attempt a muchmore comprehensive rehabilitationo f critical
embankmentsandother flood control anddiversion structures.

         The additionaldamage incurredunder the most recent floods has far exceededthe
government's capacity to respond ina timely manner. As a consequence, the government
has made a second urgent appeal to the donor community for assistance, andbasedon our
previous effectiveness inthis area, has asked the Bankto play a leadingrole inproviding
assistance. The second appeal includes an additionalIDA allocationo fU S $8 million
equivalent to reconstruct or rehabilitate additional headworks andconveyance systems and
river flood embankments, as well as other emergency repair works o f a similar nature as
they become visible after the floods recede, bringingthe total emergency request to US$ 13
million equivalent. In parallel, UNDPwill be assisting the government with an assessment
o f disaster preparednessandmanagement. The government expects to request assistance
from UNDP to implement some o fthe recommendations from the assessment.

Activities to Be Financed and Project Arrangements

         The objective ofthe additional US$ 8 million equivalent i s the same as that set out in
the Project Paper for the first US$ 5 million equivalent. IDA funds will mainly beused for
the reconstruction or rehabilitation o f water abstraction headworks, conveyance canals, and
flood protectionstructures, includingcleaning o f selective sections o friver beds. The
expected outcomes for the total additional financing component o fU S $13 millionalso
remainthe same: (i)   to return flood-damaged irrigation infrastructure to operational
conditions thereby guaranteeing water abstraction andconveyance; and (ii)      to retumflood-
damaged river embankmentsto fully operational conditions. The key outcome indicators to
bemeasuredhave beenslightlyrevisedto include: (i)command area o f 80,000 ha, serving
                                                          a
about 90,000 farm families, served with required irrigationwater; and (ii)   flood hazards
removedfor 30 villages, with 25,000 households and large areas with public andprivate
infrastructure. The outcome indicators havebeen estimated basedon an expanded
preliminary list o f sub-projects, covering 15 irrigationheadworks or canals and 19river
embankment sections.

        Annex 1to this addendum presents a list o fpotentiallocations that are additionalto
Annex 1o fthe ProjectPaper. These havebeenpreliminarily identifiedas priorities by the
government and could be covered under this addendum, but there would be certain
flexibility duringproject implementation, incase higherpriority sub-proj ects emerge after
the floods recede. At t h s point, the Bank i s currently reviewing the extent o fthe damages
that have occurred inthe most severely affected areas. However, given the time constraints,
detailed assessments and final sub-project selectionhavenot yet beenmade. The selection
criteria are the same as outlined inSection E o f the ProjectPaper. Duringproject
supervision, the Bank will monitor the selection and design o fthe sub-projects, as well as
continue to closely monitor andreview the extent o fthe damage to ensure that funds are
used for the highest priorities. The Bank i s inclose discussions with other donors to explore



                                              2

  additional support, as urgent needs will exceed the amounts available to beprovidedby the
  World Bank alone. The proposed revised financing table would be as below:

                    Component                     Indicative           IDA Financing          I
                                                     costs           Credit         Grant
                                                    KJS$m)          (US$m)         (US$m)
 A. ReconstructionofRiver Protectionand
      Irrigation Infrastructure
    A.1.Riverembankments to protect                   8.90           2.65           4.45
          irrigatiodagricultal land, village        (55%)
          infrastructure, andwater supply
          systems
    A.2. IrrigationHeadworks and Canals               6.40
                                                    (40%)
    A.3. Design andConstruction                       0.50
~




          Supervision                                (3%)
 B. Project Management and
      implementation support                          0.30
                                                     (2%)
               Total Project Costs                   16.10           7.80           5.20


          As notedinthe Project Paper, IDCDP is well suitedto managethis additional
 financing as the project implementationagency is not only incharge o f irrigation
 management but also o f flood management. IDCDPi s rated satisfactory for implementation
 andachievement o fdevelopment objective. Compliance with legal covenants andfinancial
 management i s satisfactory. The Bank is separately reviewing its financing under the
 SecondMunicipal DevelopmentProject (IDA Credit 3701-GE), to see ifparallel financing
 canbe reallocated for water supply rehabilitation to help address the damaged infrastructure
 inandaroundTbilisi. As notedinthe ProjectPaper, the additional component would
 finance repair o f existing infrastructure and would be classified as "B" for the purpose o f
 safeguards. The Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS) earlier submitted to InfoShophas
 beenupdatedto reflect the increased amount andminor changesonprogramaspects.

 FinancialTerms andConditionsfor the AdditionalFinancing

          The terms ofthe increased additional financing would bethe same as underthe
 initial proposal, that is 40 percent IDA grant and 60 percent IDA credit. The revisedtotal
 amount i s U S $5.2 millionequivalent as a grant andU S $7.8 million equivalent as a credit
 with 40 years' maturity, including 10years' grace, a service charge o f0.75 percent, and a
 commitment fee not to exceed 0.5 percent. There are no effectiveness conditions. The
 proposed additional financing complies with all Bankpolicies.




                                               3


         Annex 1: AdditionalPriorityProjectLocationsas of June22,2005


                District                     Structure                         Type
             ibasha      The Tskhenistskhali River. SamikaoVillage.         Embankment
                         100mbank protectionembankment needs to be
                         reconstructed.
IGuria       Izurgeti    TheNatanebiRiver. Rehabilitation ofthe              Imgation
                         TsremliskhidiImgation SchemeHeadworks.
                         The Achistskhali River. Rehabilitation ofthe        Irrigation
                         Liakhura Village Irrigation Scheme Headworks.
Kakheti      ;agarejo    The IoriRiver.Cleaningofupstreamof the              Irrigation
                         Paldo Headworks andreconstruction ofbank
                         protection embankments. Rehabilitation of the
                         headworks.
                         TheTsipliskhevi River, Giorgitsminda Village,      Embankment
                         Cleaning of the river bedandreconstructionof
                         bank protection embankments.
                         Sagarejo Town - The Tiluauri cross drainage.       Embankment
                         Cleaning of the cross drainage bed.
                         Tokhliauri Village - Cleaning of the               Embankment
                         Vedzatkhevi river bed and main canal bedfilled
                         with the river.
             Uchmeta     The Alazani River. Reconstruction of the 700m Embankment
                         damaged section of the left bank embankments.
Kartli       iamachablo  Reconstructionof the spillway dam andthe            Irrigation
                         water intake of the Kekhvi Headworks damaged
                         bythe Liakhvi River.
                                                                           ~

Mtskheta-    >usheti     Cleaning of the Abanoskhevi Rwer bed.              Embankment
Mtianeti
                         Flood embankments protectingparts ofthe            Embankment
                         Tbilisi water supply system.
             3aneti      The Sioni Water Reservoir on the Iori River         Imgation
k                        near the Sioni Village. Reconstructionofthe
                         damaged sections of the concrete structure of
                         the emergency spillway. Reconstructionofthe
                         damaged sections of the downstream bank of
                         the dam. Infiltration control activities inthe
                         water intake tower.
Kvemo Kartli dameuli     The DebedaRiver. Reconstruction ofDebeda            Irrigation
                         two line aqueduct locatedon the main canal of
                         the M a l i SadakhloIrrigation Scheme.




                                         4


