                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001136




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                  (IDA-35420, IDA-35421, IDA-H1760)

                                        ON A

                              CREDIT and GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 30.3 MILLION
                       (US$40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO

                                     GEORGIA

                                      FOR AN

    IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                January 27, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2009)

               Currency Unit     =   Georgian Lari (GEL)
                   GEL 1.00      =   US$0.60
                    US$1.00      =   GEL 1.67
                   SDR 1.00      =   US$1.488

                    FISCAL YEAR
               JANUARY 1 ­ DECEMBER 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AA      Amelioration Association
ADP     Agricultural Development Project (World Bank funded)
APC     Adaptable Program Credit
ARET    Agricultural Research, Extension and Training Project (World Bank funded)
ASC     Amelioration Service Cooperative
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DAWE    Department of Amelioration and Water Economy of the Ministry of Agriculture
        and Food
DASM    Department of Amelioration Scheme Management of the Ministry of
        Agriculture and Food
EA      Environmental Assessment
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
EU      European Union
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GOG     Government of Georgia
I&D     Irrigation and Drainage
IDA     International Development Association
IDCDP   Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project
IDPIU   Irrigation and Drainage Project Implementation Unit
IMT     Institutional Management Team
ISF     Irrigation Service Fee
MAF     Ministry of Agriculture and Food
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOM     Management, Operation and Maintenance
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
O&M     Operation and Maintenance
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCC     Projects Coordination Center
PDO     Project Development Objective
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PMC     Project Management Committee
PMR     Project Management Report
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
PRA     Participatory Rapid Appraisal
SA      Social Assessment
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
SOE     Statement of Expenditure
SU      Support Unit
TACIS   Technical assistance to Commonwealth of Independent States (EU)
USAID   US Agency for International Development
VAT     Value-added Tax
WB      World Bank
WUA     Water Users Association




                 Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
              Country Director: Asad Alam
                Sector Manager: Dina Umali-Deininger
           Project Team Leader: Joop Stoutjesdijk
              ICR Team Leader: Joop Stoutjesdijk
                                      GEORGIA
                Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project


                                                  CONTENTS


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 39
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 46
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results .......................................................................... 48
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 54
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 55
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 56
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 57

MAP IBRD 37486
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Irrigation & Drainage
Country:                Georgia                 Project Name:             Community
                                                                          Development Project
                                                                          IDA-35420,IDA-
Project ID:             P055068                 L/C/TF Number(s):         35421,IDA-H1760,TF-
                                                                          54294
ICR Date:               01/28/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                          GEORGIA
Original Total
                        XDR 21.3M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 29.4M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 29.4M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Municipal Development Fund
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/10/1999     Effectiveness:                               02/20/2002
Appraisal:            02/13/2001     Restructuring(s):                            06/30/2005
Approval:             06/28/2001     Mid-term Review:                             10/29/2004
                                     Closing:                04/30/2007           04/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                    Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:               Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower          Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:              Unsatisfactory



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                       Quality at Entry
                           No                                            None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                           Yes                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                   45                  45
Irrigation and drainage                                             55                  55


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Law reform                                                          14                  14
Participation and civic engagement                                  28                  28
Rural services and infrastructure                                   29                  29
Water resource management                                           29                  29

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou             Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Asad Alam                          Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:            Dina Umali-Deininger               Joseph R. Goldberg
Project Team Leader:       Joop Stoutjesdijk                  Joop Stoutjesdijk
ICR Team Leader:           Joop Stoutjesdijk
ICR Primary Author:        Martin Burton


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To increase agricultural production and farm family incomes on about 110,000 ha by
arresting further deterioration of irrigation and drainage infrastructure and keeping the
operable infrastructure functional.




                                               ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The project was restructured with the help of additional financing to add a second
objective and associated component in response to unusually heavy floods during the
spring of 2005. The proposed new component aimed to reconstruct flood protection
embankments, and irrigation headworks, and conveyance canals that had been destroyed
or severely damaged by floods. The development objective of the proposed additional
component was to improve and secure the sustainability of river flood protection works
and irrigation headworks and canals, which, if unattended, could lead to increased
flooding occurrences and infrastructure damage, and subsequent human life and
economic losses.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval            Target        Completion or
                                                documents)           Values         Target Years
                Crop yields for major crops in irrigation and drainage schemes increased from
Indicator 1 :
                pre-rehabilitation levels, 2 years after rehabilitation is completed.
                                                                                Yield increases on
                                                                                areas actually
                                                                                irrigated or drained
                                                                                (estimated at less
                                            Yield of three
                Average yield levels on                                         than 10,000 ha of
                                            major crops
Value           60,000 ha - Wheat = 1.5                                         rehabilitated area)
                                            increased by 25
quantitative or ton/ha; Maize = 2.0                              N/A.           are in the range of
                                            percent (compared
Qualitative)    ton/ha; Grapes = 4.0                                            50 to over 100%,
                                            to baseline levels)
                ton/ha.                                                         with yields
                                            on 30,000 ha.
                                                                                achieved for wheat
                                                                                - 2.95 t/ha, maize -
                                                                                3.1 t/ha, grapes -
                                                                                6.4 t/ha.
Date achieved 12/31/2002                     12/31/2008          04/30/2009     04/30/2009
Comments        Target met where there is irrigation, but area under irrigation is less than 40
(incl. %        percent of rehabilitated area. A guaranteed supply of water gives farmers
achievement) confidence to improve practices.
                Annual amount of water supplied to project AAs at least 85 percent of agreed
Indicator 2 : volume as contracted with the LTDs and adequately distributed by AAs to
                members.
                                                                                The 3 irrigation
                                                                                LTDs were able to
                                                                                provide water as
                                            Eighty AAs are
                                                                                needed (at least
Value                                       expected to be
                                                                                85% of agreed
quantitative or Zero contracts.             supplied with        N/A.
                                                                                volume) to at least
Qualitative)                                water as per
                                                                                80 AA boundaries,
                                            contract.
                                                                                as areas under
                                                                                irrigation were very
                                                                                small. Few AAs


                                                 iii
                                                                              had need to manage
                                                                              water, which was
                                                                              available in over-
                                                                              abundance.
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/31/2008         04/30/2009     04/30/2009
Comments        Target met, However, although the indicator seems to have been fulfilled, the
(incl. %        areas under irrigation were so small that conveyance systems that run at close to
achievement) capacity were able to deliver water in abundance to AAs.
                Return flood-damaged irrigation infrastructure and river embankments to
Indicator 3 : operational conditions to provide required water and protect villages,
                respectively.
                                                                              Headworks
                                                                              commanding
                                                                              55,800 ha of
                                                                              irrigation area
                                            Systems
                                                                              returned to full and
                                            commanding
                                                                              safe operation,
                                            50,000 ha, serving
                                                                              serving about
Value                                       about 60,000 farm
                No infrastructure returned                                    50,000 farm
quantitative or                             families           N/A.
                to operational conditions.                                    families. Twenty
Qualitative)                                operational and 20
                                                                              villages (40,200
                                            villages with
                                                                              people - about
                                            15,000 households
                                                                              8,000 families) and
                                            protected.
                                                                              infrastructure
                                                                              (water pipelines,
                                                                              irrigation canals,
                                                                              roads) protected.
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    04/30/2009         04/30/2009     04/30/2009
Comments
                The target values for the indicator have been largely achieved, but the number of
(incl. %
                families that has benefited is lower than envisaged.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                               Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
                The expectation is that at least 140 AAs established and legally registered, and
Indicator 1 :
                training program ongoing for these AAs to lead to sustainable AAs.
                                                                              Almost 260 have
                                            About 140 AAs                     been established,
                                            expected to be                    but are now barely
Value                                       established and                   operational.
(quantitative   Zero AAs.                   registered.        N/A.           Training was never
or Qualitative)                             Training program                  sufficient to to
                                            ongoing for 140                   build AAs into
                                            AAs.                              sustainable
                                                                              organizations.



                                                iv
Date achieved 12/31/2002                 12/31/2007         04/30/2009     04/30/2009
              Only limited results. The targeted number of AAs established was exceeded but
Comments
              poorly supported and trained. Very few, if any, have been able to develop into
(incl. %
              organizations that can take charge of the management of irrigation and drainage
achievement)
              systems.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                            IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     08/21/2001        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/10/2001        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     04/05/2002        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     1.65
  4     09/19/2002        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     2.03
  5     03/03/2003        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     2.95
  6     09/22/2003        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     4.96
  7     02/16/2004        Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    6.19
  8     06/29/2004        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     7.23
  9     08/24/2004        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     7.57
 10     12/16/2004        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     8.90
 11     05/02/2005        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   11.34
                           Moderately                    Moderately
 12     10/20/2005                                                                     12.95
                         Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                           Moderately                    Moderately
 13     12/13/2005                                                                     14.34
                         Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
 14     12/29/2005    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            14.68
 15     04/19/2006       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                  17.58
 16     09/22/2006    Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   20.88
 17     02/23/2007    Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   25.22
 18     11/19/2007    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            32.94
 19     06/26/2008    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            36.93
                           Moderately                    Moderately
 20     02/11/2009                                                                     41.96
                         Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                           Moderately                    Moderately
 21     04/29/2009                                                                     42.98
                         Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 06/30/2005       Y       S       S          11.45



                                                v
If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                            Moderately Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                    Moderately Unsatisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory


I. Disbursement Profile




                                             vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      At the time of project appraisal, agriculture contributed 36 percent to GDP and
employed about 54 percent of the total labor force. Grain crops comprised 54 percent of
the value of production, wine 12 percent, and fruits 11 percent. Irrigation was important
to supplement rainfall in order to optimize agricultural production. Drainage in the
western part of Georgia was needed to maintain the groundwater table. The country's
Irrigation and Drainage (I&D) infrastructure was largely developed during the Soviet
period and covered at its peak 469,000 ha of irrigated area and 163,000 ha of drainage
area. War and civil unrest contributed to the decline of the agriculture sector in Georgia
in the 1990s and also led to deterioration of I&D infrastructure.

2.      At appraisal, both the management and physical condition of the I&D systems
were in serious crisis. Only about one-third of the irrigable area was being used, and
about 12 percent of the area equipped for drainage. Most systems reliant on pumps were
out of order. In 1990, the Department of Amelioration and Scheme Management
(DASM) had an annual budget of US$45 million, but this reduced to US$5 million in
1993.1 During the period 1993-2004, the department's total annual budget ranged
between US$1 ­ 6 million, almost entirely dependent on the EU Food Security Program.
Most of the budget was used for operational expenditures, while hardly anything was
available for capital repairs.

3.      Since independence, various donors were assisting the Government of Georgia
(GOG) to address constraints in the agricultural sector, such as inadequate agricultural
support services and incomplete land reform. The World Bank assisted with the
Agricultural Development Project (ADP) and the Agricultural Research, Extension and
Training Project (ARET). Little was done to address the problems in the I&D sub-sector.
In addition to the deteriorating physical infrastructure, the creation of a large number of
small irrigators brought about by the change in land tenure created problems for DASM
in dealing with so many individual irrigators. In a move to address this situation, DASM,
from 1996 onwards, established some 200 Amelioration Service Cooperatives (ASC) on
about 200,000 ha. These ASCs generally covered the command area of former kolkhozes
and sovkhozes and were to be responsible for management, operation and maintenance
(MOM) of on-farm systems. ASCs entered into contracts with DASM for bulk irrigation
water supplies, and they were to collect an irrigation service fee (ISF) of about GEL
7/1,000 m3, made up of DASM's charge of GEL 4/1,000 m3 and a charge of GEL
3/1,000 m3 to cover the ASC's costs for the management, operation and maintenance
(MOM0 of the on-farm system. The ASCs were, however, not properly established, with
no training and no awareness creation among farmers. As a result they achieved
relatively little - they had few members and carried out little maintenance of the system.
Over time, most ACSs failed and were abandoned.

1
    The PAD makes reference to the Department of Amelioration and Water Economy (DAWE), but the
    department's name was subsequently changed to DASM.
                                                1
4.       The major challenges facing the I&D sub-sector were considered by the appraisal
team to be: (i) to increase the participation of farmers in scheme MOM; (ii) to arrest the
decline in areas served by irrigation and drainage infrastructure and improve the technical
performance of the schemes; and (iii) to improve cost recovery to make schemes
sustainable. The project sought to overcome these challenges through the establishment
of, and support to, farmer-run Amelioration Associations (AA), which would assume
responsibility for development, operation, and maintenance of irrigation and drainage
networks within their service territories. Repair and rehabilitation of irrigation and
drainage infrastructure would also take place, and cost recovery for MOM would be
improved. The Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project (IDCDP) was
therefore designed to restore priority I&D systems and to bring these back to fully
operational conditions. An important focus of the project was to be on establishing an
institutional framework in which farmers would be mobilized to participate in and
contribute to the rehabilitation efforts and subsequently take charge of the management of
the lower-order irrigation and drainage systems. Farmers would thus be required to take
responsibility for certain sections of rehabilitated systems and pay fees for service
provision. This was a novel approach in Georgia at the time of appraisal, but one proven
successful in other countries, such as Turkey and the Kyrgyz Republic. It was realized
that development of robust farmer-managed institutions would be a long-term activity,
which was one of the reasons to opt for an Adaptable Program Credit (APC).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

5.      IDCDP was established as the 1st phase of a proposed 3-phase APC named the
Irrigation and Drainage Revitalization Program. The purpose of the program was to
revitalize the irrigation and drainage sub-sector and to develop the institutional
foundation for the long-term sustainability of the sub-sector for the benefit of increased
crop production, and subsequent improvement in farm family incomes on an area of
about 255,000 hectares (ha). The main focus for institutional development was to be the
formation of Amelioration Associations (AAs) for the management, operation and
maintenance of the on-farm irrigation and drainage systems.

6.       The project development objective of IDCDP was to increase agricultural
production and farm family incomes on 110,000 ha by arresting further deterioration of
irrigation and drainage infrastructure and keeping the operable infrastructure functional.

7.     The PAD identified the following main impact indicators:

       ·       increase in average crop production per ha for wheat, maize and grapes
       (three major crops);
       ·       annual amount of water supplied to AAs as per contract with DASM;
       ·       distribution of adequate water to users within the territory of AAs;
       ·       adequate drainage of land within the territory of AAs; and
       ·       reliable and quality AA management of on-farm irrigation and drainage
       systems (measured by levels of water fees set and paid, financial management
       procedures and maintenance work carried out).

                                             2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

8.       The Bank and the Government responded quickly to adapting the project to
address unusually heavy floods during the spring of 2005 in several of the country's river
systems and the project was restructured in June 2005 with the help of Additional
Financing (AF) to add an additional objective and associated component. Several
sections of embankments were destroyed and, without reconstruction, large areas would
have been flooded during future high floods. Other embankments were severely
weakened, and would have been prone to failure during next floods. Several major
irrigation works and water diversion structures were also damaged by the floods. Some
structures were no longer able to divert irrigation water effectively, while others were
unstable, with a risk of failure in future storms, potentially depriving large areas of
irrigation water.

9.      Additional financing: (i) enabled strengthening of river embankments at critical
locations along major rivers (including Rioni, Tskhenistskali, and tributaries of the
Alazani); and (ii) provided for reconstruction or rehabilitation of irrigation headworks
and conveyance systems. A list of priority locations was identified by government, but it
was agreed that a flexible approach to selection of works to be carried out would be
adopted, based on clear flood-related damage and further investigations during
implementation.

10.     The development objective of the proposed additional component was to improve
and secure the sustainability of river flood protection works and irrigation headworks and
canals, which, if unattended, could lead to increased flooding occurrences and
infrastructure damage, and subsequent human life and economic losses.

11.     The expected outcomes of the additional component were: (i) to return flood-
damaged irrigation infrastructure to operational conditions that guarantee the water
abstraction and delivery to a command area of 50,000 ha, serving about 60,000 farm
families; and (ii) to return flood-damaged river embankments to fully operational
conditions thereby protecting an estimated 20 villages with 15,000 households and large
areas with public and private infrastructure.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

12.      The original project was intended to directly increase the incomes and food
security of about 80,000 farm families representing about 400,000 persons, by improving
irrigation and drainage on about 110,000 ha, distributed throughout Georgia. The project
would also increase the quantity and reliability of irrigation water delivery to AAs and
their members and ensure adequate drainage of farmers' fields. These interventions
would generate employment by rehabilitating infrastructure, reclaiming and expanding
operation of irrigation and drainage areas, by increasing cropping intensities and
increasing the portion of labor-intensive high-value crops in the crop rotation.


                                            3
13.    Under the Additional Financing, it was estimated that the beneficiaries of the
flood-damaged infrastructure reconstruction component would be about 60,000 farm
families and 15,000 households living along rivers with flood embankment protection.

1.5 Original Components

APC Structure

14.      The Adaptable Program Credit was designed to take place over a period of 12
years to rehabilitate and maintain, for the benefit of sustained agriculture, irrigation and
drainage networks commanding 255,000 ha by: (i) establishing Amelioration
Associations through which farmers would participate in rehabilitation and O&M of
irrigation or drainage systems covering 255,000 ha; and (ii) financing rehabilitation of
selected higher-order infrastructure covering approximately 125,000 ha (91,000 ha
irrigation and 34,000 ha drainage; see Table 1 below). The Program was also intended to
provide limited funds to support targeted repair of main systems under the management
of DASM, particularly to keep systems operative until subsequent program activities
would start in later years. Necessary funds were also to be provided for dam safety,
environmental safeguards, technical assistance (TA), training, and project management.

Table 1: Structure of the proposed Irrigation and Drainage Revitalization Program
Activity                                    First Phase   Second Phase      Third Phase     Total
                                            5 years       4 years           3 years         12 years
1. Rehabilitation Program
(hectares)
a) Irrigation (including establishment of     16,000          36,000          39,000            91,000
and financial assistance to AAs)
b) Drainage (including establishment of       4,000           16,000          14,000            34,000
and financial assistance to AAs)
2. National AA Program                        40,000          (50,000)        (40,000)          40,000
(hectares)
3. AA Establishment Program                   50,000          40,000                            90,000
(hectares)
TOTAL per Phase                               110,000         92,000          53,000            255,000
TOTAL (accumulative)                          110,000         202,000         255,000           255,000
Notes:
- AAs under the Establishment Program received project support for the establishment and development of
the AA. AAs under the National Program were supported with project funds for the rehabilitation of the
infrastructure under AA management, but not for rehabilitation of higher-order I&D infrastructure. AAs
under the rehabilitation program were in command areas that were supported with project funds for
comprehensive rehabilitation of all I&D infrastructure.
- Figures in parentheses indicate areas moving from AA Establishment Program to National AA Program
and are not included in cumulative totals except in the first phase.
- It is possible that AAs that have benefited from the National Program might receive assistance under the
Rehabilitation Program during a subsequent phase. If this turns out to be the case, the total area to be
covered under the APC will reduce. Any adjustments to the total area covered under the APC will be made
during preparation of subsequent phases.
Source: Project Appraisal Document, May 2001.

Project Components

                                                     4
15.     The project consisted of four components with nine sub-components (see Annex 2
for details):

        Component 1: Irrigation and Drainage Systems Rehabilitation and Maintenance
        (US$17.00 million original cost estimate), including (a) rehabilitation of irrigation
        infrastructure (US$11.78 million originally allocated); (b) rehabilitation of
        drainage infrastructure (US$2.80 million); and (c) targeted rehabilitation of
        infrastructure for National AA Program (US$2.44 million).

        Component 2: AA Development and Strengthening for Improved Irrigation and
        Drainage (US$10.70 million), including (a) support for AAs in the Rehabilitation
        Program and the National Program (US$8.80 million); (b) AA establishment
        program (US$566,000); (c) Support for DASM (US$259,000); (d) Dam safety
        action program (US$ 255,000); (e) Environmental management (US$136,000);
        and (f) Training and study tours (US$740,000).

        Component 3: Project Management (US$3.90 million).

        Component 4: Project Preparation Facility (US$1.20 million).

1.6 Revised Components

16.     New Component 5: Flood Damaged Infrastructure Reconstruction (Additional
Financing US$16.10 million),2 including (a) reconstruction of River Protection and
Irrigation Infrastructure (US$15.80 million); and (ii) project management and
implementation support (US$0.30 million).

1.7 Other Significant Changes

17.     Additional Contracts Financed from Original Credit (US$6.06 million). Due
to substantial gains from SDR-USD exchange and cost reductions in various components,
it was possible to allocate more funds for rehabilitation of I&D systems.

18.     Extensions. The project was extended twice by one year from April 30, 2007 to
April 30, 2009 to allow additional time for completion of all remaining contracts,
included additional contracts financed from the original credit, as well as to attempt to
revive the support to AAs.

19.    Move of the Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMU was originally
attached to the Ministry of Agriculture, where it coordinated closely with staff of other
Bank-funded projects and benefitted from centralized support from the Projects
Coordination Center. In 2005, the PMU was moved to the Municipal Development Fund
(MDF), which is the main agency in government dealing with infrastructural
developments

2
    US$13.00 million from IDA (US$7.80 million credit and US$5.20 million grant) and US$3.10 million
    from government.
                                                 5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

20.     Project preparation, design and quality at entry were satisfactory. The decision to
set up a 12-year Adaptable Program Credit for the revitalization of the irrigation and
drainage sub-sector was entirely in keeping with the deteriorated condition of the I&D
infrastructure and the need for an adequate time frame for institutional change,
particularly in relation to the establishment of amelioration associations at the on-farm
level.

21.     Project preparation was lengthy but thorough. Shortcomings in the legal
framework for establishing AAs were identified and a new legal framework enacted
before the project started. A detailed social assessment was carried out and pilot studies
implemented to test the approach to formation and establishment of AAs. The
preparation team correctly identified that the key to project success was the establishment
and functioning of AAs in a sustainable and effective manner and that considerable
support would be required over a period of 10-15 years.

22.      The choice of the I&D schemes for Phase 1 of the APC at the time of project
design was appropriate, given their relative importance and the high economic returns
expected from reinstatement of the infrastructure to fully operational condition. The
preparation team correctly identified that adequate and regular maintenance of the
irrigation and drainage systems would be critical to the sustainability of project benefits,
and required that the project put major emphasis on this. To this end measures were put
in place as "triggers" to move from Phase 1 to Phase 2 of the APC. One such measure
was that service fee levels charged by DASM were to be increased by at least 1.5 times;
another requirement was that there was consistent government commitment to providing
at least minimum acceptable levels of O&M financing during Phase 1, based on an
annual O&M plan.

23.      The preparation team adequately identified the main risks and their rating,
including that agricultural inputs were still not available in needed supplies and at
competitive prices and the lack of sufficient budget for adequate operation and
maintenance of I&D systems. The team did not (and could not) identify the wider
institutional changes that were to take place in Georgia, with a dramatic move towards
privatization and reduction of government staffing, as well as the dramatic change of
policy by the MOA towards establishment of AAs in 2006.

2.2 Implementation

24.    In late 2003, Georgia went through the Rose Revolution which ushered in a new
Government of reformers focused on transforming Georgian society, especially in
reducing corruption and placing a stronger emphasis on the private sector. Agriculture
was not the primary focus of initial reforms, but a quick succession in a number of
ministers of agriculture affected the implementation of the project as it was difficult for
the Bank team to maintain dialogue and maintain the focus on project implementation, as
                                             6
per design. The various ministers had different perceptions about the scope of the
project, which resulted in delays with project implementation.

25.    In 2006, the Government introduced a new framework that would rely on four
new corporate entities (limited companies ­ LTDs) rather than DASM to operate and
maintain the higher-order irrigation infrastructure. The Bank cautioned at the time that a
sudden, major shift in the institutional setup for the O&M of infrastructure might present
problems, but in the end decided to work with the Government to see how the four new
corporate entities could fit within the overall institutional framework for the sub-sector,
with AAs managing operations at the local level and providing a mechanism to provide
payment to the four corporate entities.

26.      However, the combination of the LTDs and the AAs did not in fact work well.
The main concern relates to the lack of sustainability due to inadequate resources being
provided by the organizations responsible for managing, operating and maintaining this
infrastructure. The LTDs are grossly under-resourced and practically bankrupt and
therefore unable to provide more than a fire-fighting service. In addition, AAs are
institutionally weak, and unable to raise funds from water users to enable them to
properly operate and maintain the on-farm systems. Local governments are responsible
for river training structures which protect land and property from flood damage, but are
financially under-resourced to be able to adequately maintain flood protection defenses.
There is already evidence of deterioration of some works that were rehabilitated under the
project, and future sustainability is unlikely without additional resources from
Government.

27.      AA development was going relatively well until mid-2006 when the situation
altered dramatically with a change in MOA policy following the appointment of a new
Minster of Agriculture. The MOA proposed the following substantial changes: (i) focus
first on the rehabilitation of the main canal systems and structures and associated large
secondary canals with the importance and capacity as that of main canals. The project
management team was instructed to exclude all other secondary canals from recently
started or remaining contracts; (ii) eliminate the AA concept under the existing IDCDP
and reallocate all available funds to rehabilitation of main canals; and (iii) limit DASM's
mandate to regulation and policy and have the private sector or maybe state-owned
limited companies undertake management, operation and maintenance functions currently
carried out by DASM. DASM suffered draconian cuts in terms of both staffing and
budget, which deprived it of its ability to operate and maintain irrigation and drainage
systems.

28.     These proposals were contrary to the basic principles and objective of the project,
and the Bank's task team expressed serious misgivings about these proposals. Following
several discussions and negotiations the following was agreed: (i) the government agreed
to continue the establishment and support of AAs in the four main project areas where
comprehensive rehabilitation was taking place; (ii) rehabilitation would continue in
Kvemo Alazani and Tashiskari Irrigation Systems on both the main and the secondary
canals, and AAs would receive seed money to improve the tertiary and quaternary
systems under their management; and (iii) Government moved away, for the time being,
                                             7
from the concept of involving the private sector in the O&M of primary and secondary
irrigation and drainage systems. Instead it decided to abolish DASM and establish four
state-owned limited companies, each with responsibility for large geographical areas.

29.    As a consequence of these decisions the AA Rehabilitation Program was able to
continue, the AA Establishment Program was halted, and AA Support for the National
AA Program was reduced to supporting those AAs for which work had already
commenced. This resulted in reducing this latter program in scope from 40,000 ha to
about 10,000 ha. The targeted rehabilitation of off-farm systems to support the National
AA Program was also stopped. The AA training contract, let in July 2004, was halted
with only one third of the training having been carried out.

30.     It was clear from the actions taken by government at this time that they had
shifted their approach from the concept of participatory irrigation and drainage
management that was the underlying principle of the project towards a hybrid model that
involved both corporatized management and AA working together. The Bank decided
not to close the project, hoping that continued dialogue between Government and the
Bank might result in positive changes in the government's policies, but a decision was
made not to start the preparation of the second phase of the APC. Some changes in
attitude towards AAs did occur after the LTDs were formed and their senior management
began to appreciate the significant difficulties of dealing, in the absence of effective AAs,
with many thousands of individual water users. At the close of the project the MOA and
senior management of the state-owned LTDs highlighted the importance of AAs to the
effective management of the I&D systems, though it was too late for the project to make
a renewed impact.

31.    Without support to AAs in the very near future they will collapse and LTDs will
have to commence dealing directly with individual water users, or small groups of water
users. Not only will this require significantly increased numbers of LTD staff, a degree
of anarchy will return to management of water at the on-farm level, with increases in
unauthorized abstractions and willful damage to physical infrastructure.

32.     The flood contracts have been executed with greater efficiency than the irrigation
rehabilitation contracts. Construction works were generally fully satisfactory and
completed infrastructure has been able to withstand floods with ease. The project
introduced modern designs and construction methods for river training structures which
have proven successful under Georgian conditions. This includes for example the use of:
(i) `rock placement' to reinforce and strengthen spurs and embankments; (ii) rock aprons
to protect foundations; and (iii) submerged gabion spurs to withstand high river flows.
These technologies have now been adopted by national engineers for flood control
applications.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

33.    The intention at the start of the project was that the project monitoring and
evaluation would be carried out by the M&E Specialist within the Projects Coordination
Center (PCC), but for lack of sufficient capacity this was never an effective set-up. This
                                              8
resulted initially in inadequate attention being paid to M&E of project activities and
project reporting against project outputs and outcomes. M&E was therefore transferred
to the PMU and baseline, mid-term, and final impact studies were commissioned by the
project but it was found that as a result of the poor performance of the project at farm
level it was difficult to provide reliable and adequate results for the project's key
performance indicators.

34.     The outcome indicator to measure agricultural impact of the project was
especially difficult to monitor. Wheat, grapes and maize were indeed the predominant
crops on Tashiskari, Kvemo Alazani, and the drainage schemes before the project started.
However, only maize yields would really capture major impacts from improvements in
drainage. Wheat and grapes for wine require substantial irrigation only during dry years.
Vineyards and wheat dominated land use before the project precisely because they were
able to continue producing with limited or no irrigation. One of the main expected
benefits of the rehabilitation of the drainage schemes was an increase in area available for
production. On the irrigation schemes a major impact would have been expected from
changes in areas planted to different crops and an increase in area of crops irrigated, but
this did not occur during the project period.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

35.    Procurement and financial management as well as safeguards compliance have
generally been satisfactory during the project.

36.     Procurement. Both the PCC and MDF had a strong procurement team in place
that has adequately taken care of all procurement aspects under the project. Bidding
documents, evaluation reports, procurement plans, and other procurement-related
documents were generally well prepared. During project implementation there were
several delays in procurement that were not caused by deficiencies on the part of the
procurement team, but by factors such as lawsuits over ownership of structures or
disagreement by MOA about the scope of works.

37.    The procurement for the Flood-Damaged Infrastructure Reconstruction
Component was carried out without major problems. Sufficient flexibility was allowed,
for example to restructure ongoing contracts with design consultants to quickly design the
works.

38.    Financial Management. The financial management (FM) arrangements at PCC
and MDF, including accounting, reporting and budgeting, funds flow, and external audit,
have generally been adequate and acceptable to the Bank. The FM staffing capacity was
found to be strong and internal control systems were assessed to be overall adequate.
During several implementation review missions control reviews of sample transactions
were carried out with no major issues observed. Walk-through tests of the controls over
operating expenses were conducted as well, which demonstrated that there are overall
adequate controls in place over these expenses.


                                             9
39.    PCC and MDF prepared quarterly PMRs for IDCDP. These were received
usually on time, and overall had satisfactory quality, although occasionally the
unacceptable practice of a transfer between different Special Accounts (SA) was
observed. Audit reports were sometimes received with minor delays.

40.     Safeguards Compliance. The original project, as well as its Additional Financing
triggered three safeguards: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Safety of Dams
(OP/BP 4.37), and Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50).

41.     Project implementation has generally been compliant with the requirements of the
environmental management plan (EMP). Environmental guidelines for civil works
contractors were included in tender documents and attached to contract agreements.
Project engineers reported on critical social and environmental issues where these arose,
but did not routinely document these in site visit reports.

42.     As recommended in the EIA, the project contracted a national consulting
company to monitor water and soil quality within the four I&D schemes rehabilitated by
the project.3 The monitoring included sampling of water, soil, and sediments within
scheme areas, before and after the irrigation season. Crop samples were also taken after
harvest. The environmental monitoring contract was implemented between 2003 and
2007, and the final report was submitted in February 2008. The report concludes that
operation of the rehabilitated schemes has had no tangible impact on the level of
biological and chemical pollution of the environment. A generic problem found was the
historical excessive use of agrochemicals and the lack of waste water treatment facilities.
As a result, bacteriological contamination and the content of some heavy metals exceed
permissible levels in some water bodies and soils. However, the results of the earlier
baseline monitoring at the EIA stage, indicated that the situation has not deteriorated
during the project implementation period. Natural habitats have not been adversely
affected in the Kolkheti Protected Areas due to the operation of the Rioni-Choloki
drainage scheme. The slow water flow and exceptionally high rate of vegetation growth
in the drainage canals of Kolkheti apparently provide a natural barrier against pollution of
the ecosystem by water draining from agricultural fields.

43.     A Dam Safety Panel, comprising national and international staff, was set up early
during the project to carry out a Dam Safety Action Program on four major dams, Algeti,
Sioni, Tbilisi, and Zonkari. These are important dams that cover large irrigation areas,
although not those covered under the Phase 1 Rehabilitation Program. The focus of the
Panel was on surveys, studies and the preparation of dam examination reports for the four
dams. The dam examination reports made recommendations on any needed
rehabilitation, including necessary new hardware (i.e. telecommunications and warning
systems, monitoring instrumentation, etc.), to improve the condition and operation of
these dams. The results of the Panel have already been used for the rehabilitation of
Sioni Dam, financed by Government.



3
    Georgian and Biological Monitoring Association (GEBMA).
                                               10
44.     The Panel was to a lesser extent also involved in providing advice for the design
of the works at the Poti Control Structure and the spillway reconstruction at Zhinvali
Dam.

45.     During project implementation no issues with international waters were
experienced. Infrastructure was returned to operational condition without increasing the
abstraction or conveyance capacity beyond the original design flows.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

46.     The rehabilitation and reconstruction works were generally of satisfactory quality
and the scope of the works was sufficient to bring back the irrigation and drainage
schemes to fully operational conditions. There are, however, serious concerns over the
sustainability of AAs within Georgia and thereby the sustainability of smallholder
agriculture on irrigation/drainage schemes. Management and operation of the higher-
order irrigation and drainage infrastructure has been precarious since the establishment of
the LTDs. With the termination of the project the AA Support Unit within the MDF has
closed, leaving AAs without any support mechanism. It is likely that most AAs will
cease to function, putting at risk the rehabilitation work carried out under the project, and
placing any further planned rehabilitation projects in jeopardy.

47.     Government's current commitment to irrigated and drained agriculture is not
clear, and continues a period since 2006 of lack of clarity and consistency in setting of
agricultural policy. There is until now little evidence that government is committed to
supporting smallholder irrigation/drainage in a meaningful manner.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

48.      Support to agriculture should remain important for government, not just to
produce food for the population, but also for its large employment in rural areas.
Agriculture's contribution to GDP has dropped from well over 30 percent in 1996 to 16
percent in 2004, and reducing further to 9.4 percent in 2007. Despite this decline in
contribution to GDP, agriculture continues to provide over 50 percent of employment
opportunities. Well functioning irrigation and drainage systems are important to optimize
yields and to allow farmers to change cropping patterns. As such the objective and
project design remained relevant during the project, although that was not fully
appreciated by government as evident by the changes in project implementation that took
place during the latter part of the project. These changes affected especially the
institutional setup and sustainability of the sub-sector.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

49.     The original PDO was to increase agricultural production and farm family
incomes on 110,000 ha by arresting further deterioration of irrigation and drainage
infrastructure and keeping the operable infrastructure functional.
                                            11
50.      Rehabilitation works that have been implemented under the project have arrested
further deterioration of irrigation and drainage infrastructure. Especially on the over
30,000 ha that were rehabilitated in a comprehensive manner, the project interventions
have brought back the irrigation and drainage systems to fully operational conditions.
Over 27,000 farmers now have access to reliable water supply or drainage facilities, but
many farmers in especially the irrigation schemes have not taken advantage of the
reliable water that is now available. Production technologies have generally progressed
little during the last decade. This, together with the rising costs of inputs, including fuel
and fertilizer, has constrained both cultivated areas and yields. Complementary
agriculture investments and support were not delivered to enable smallholders to take full
advantage of the improved irrigation infrastructure. Where farmers are making use of the
rehabilitated areas there has been increases in crop yields, and in some cultivation of high
value fruit and vegetable crops, particularly peaches, apples, cabbage, cucumber, and
strawberries. It is estimated that farmers on only about 4,000 ha out of the irrigation area
rehabilitated have practiced full irrigation. In these areas yields of wheat have increased
from 1.5 ton/ha to up to 2.95 ton/ha and grapes from 4 ton/ha to up to 6.4 ton/ha.

51.     More than 6,000 farmers on drainage schemes have benefited from improved
growing conditions for crops as a result of the project. Maize yields in project schemes
have increased from an average of around 2 ton/ha to 3.1 ton/ha. Production of maize,
which is the dominant crop in the drainage areas of Western Georgia, has increased as
better drainage has increased the area under production. Output and farm incomes have
been boosted by project interventions.

52.     More is needed to reap the benefits from the project works. It will likely take
several years of reliable supply in the main system, as well as support from government
to the LTDs and AAs and more in general to the agricultural sector (credit facilities, good
quality inputs, and adequate marketing opportunities for high-value crops) before farmers
may consider changing their current farming practices to farming systems more heavily
dependent on irrigation.

53.     The flood protection infrastructure that has been reconstructed is of good quality
and strength and is serving well. It has certainly minimized the risk of future flooding
and of damage to infrastructure. New construction materials have been used that should
minimize future maintenance of the infrastructure. So, this sub-component has
performed well and is showing good impact. More than 20 villages with a population of
over 40,000 have increased security against flooding. The newly reconstructed
infrastructure also provides protection to the water supply system of Tbilisi, roads, etc.

3.3 Efficiency

54.     Costs. Total project costs are estimated at US$52 million compared with
US$32.80 million at appraisal. The total amount of funds available to the project were
augmented by approximately US$4.5 million resulting from the devaluation of the US$
against the SDR over the project period, and from further financing which was made
available for flood-damaged infrastructure rehabilitation in 2005 (US$16.10 million).

                                             12
55.     Economic Returns. The actual economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the
original project elements (rehabilitation of schemes, AA support and national program,
project management), excluding the activities under the additional financing, is estimated
to be 20 percent over a 15 year project lifespan upon completion of the rehabilitation
works. It is at the moment unrealistic to assume that benefits will continue beyond this
date as the operation and maintenance of the rehabilitated schemes is far from secure.
Incremental benefits from drainage schemes have been assumed to dwindle to nothing
after ten years. Despite the higher investment costs and the conservative assumptions for
project life, the EIRR has held up well, because: (i) yields have responded well to
improved supplies of irrigation water after rehabilitation; (ii) prices for agricultural
produce have risen far above the levels anticipated in the PAD, partly from world
commodity price trends and partly because of local conditions; (iii) some farmers have
invested in new orchards (particularly peach and apple) and in horticultural production;
and (iv) without the project, both irrigated areas and cultivated areas in drainage schemes
would have declined sharply.

56.     No rate of return has been calculated for the additional works carried out under
the project for flood repairs and protection.

57.     Financial Returns. The main beneficiaries of the project investments have been a
group of farmers who have managed to intensify their production. On the drainage
schemes, most of the additional produce has been used for home consumption or for
increasing livestock production. On the irrigation schemes, farmers have marginally
increased sales of potatoes, beetroot, cucumbers, strawberries, melons, orchard fruit and
grapes, but still a high proportion of production is consumed domestically.

58.     Farm model analysis shows that the value of farm incomes has risen from
between GEL 92 (US$55) to GEL 1,022 (US$612) depending on location and cropping
pattern. Most typically, incomes will have risen by between GEL 600-700/ha (US$360-
US$420/ha) in drainage schemes and where full irrigation has been practiced.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

59.      In terms of the extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were
achieved, or are expected to be achieved, efficiently, the project has to be rated
moderately unsatisfactory as there are shortcomings. The physical irrigation and
drainage works were generally completed in a satisfactory manner and will contribute in
the short-term to increased agricultural production. The emergency flood related
rehabilitation and reconstruction was a significant success and one of the most rapid
efforts to address a crisis. There were, however, significant shortcomings in achieving
the original project's objective in terms of reliable and quality management of irrigation
and drainage systems, while the area that is actually used for irrigation is much lower
than the area that was rehabilitated by the project. As a consequence of the failure to
support and train effective Amelioration Associations and integrate them into the
operation of the LTDs, the ability to effectively manage, operate and maintain the
rehabilitated on-farm systems is put in jeopardy, as is the ability to make contributions
                                              13
through service fees to the main system service provider. Further, the LTDs themselves
are short of budget and technical staff. Unless significant and immediate action is taken
by government, the sustainability of the investment in rehabilitation works is
questionable. There are signs that government is indeed reconsidering its policies and
assistance to the sub-sector in order to increase its sustainability. IDA intends to continue
to maintain a dialogue with government to achieve this.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

60.    Most of the about 33,000 beneficiaries are small-scale farmers with holdings of
around one ha, which are typically among the poorer segment of the Georgian population.
As such, the project was expected to have an impact on poverty reduction.
Unfortunately, only a small percentage (not more than 20 percent) of these beneficiaries
is making use of the rehabilitated infrastructure.

61.      Where farmers are making use of the rehabilitated areas there has been increases
in crop yields. It is estimated that about 5,000 farmers on about 4,000 ha out of the
irrigation area rehabilitated have practiced full irrigation. In these areas yields of wheat
have increased from 1.5 ton/ha to up to 2.95 ton/ha and grapes from 4 ton/ha to up to 6.4
ton/ha. More than 6,000 farmers on the project drainage schemes have benefited from
improved growing conditions for crops as a result of the project. Maize yields in project
schemes have increased from an average of around 2 ton/ha to 3.1 ton/ha. Although not
specifically tracked, it is likely that incomes of these beneficiaries have increased and as
such it can be concluded that agriculture can provide an important safety net for rural
people, including during times of economic downturn.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

62.     The current overall institutional framework for agriculture and irrigation/drainage
has become dire, and appears unlikely to improve until Government recognizes that
smallholder farmers play an important role in the rural economy, which will continue for
many years. It is true that government provides certain support to small farmers through
exemption in taxes and the occasional provision of inputs, e.g. vouchers for plowing after
the war in 2008, there seems to be an overarching pre-occupation with large farmers,
higher order infrastructure, and a market-oriented approach towards agriculture, which is
not fully compatible with the current socio-economic conditions where are large
percentage of the rural people remains engaged in agriculture. The project made a start at
developing viable AAs to take responsibility for their I&D farm-level networks, but this
has been effectively set back by lack of interest and support from Government. Without
a genuine change in approach and support from Government, further assistance to
farmers (and AAs) and the irrigation and drainage sub-sector is unlikely to be sustainable.

63.    The consequences of a weak institutional framework for irrigation and drainage,
which the project sought to avert through Component 2, are now being felt. Membership
                                               14
of AAs is falling as are payments of the irrigation service fee. In drainage areas no
service fees are being collected. Service delivery at the main system level has been
adversely affected by the poorly planned and executed management transfer in 2007 from
the government agency (DASM) to state-owned LTDs. Inexperienced senior
management in the LTDs adopted aggressive tactics during the 2007 and 2008 irrigation
seasons to obtain funds from water users, and undermined the authority of AAs in the
process. Moves by LTDs to replace some AA Chairmen and Board Members, and/or
circumvent the AA management are turning the clock back on achievements made in the
early stages of the project in participatory irrigation and drainage management.

64.     In addition, the government has reduced the staffing levels in the Ministry of
Agriculture, with drastic cut backs at district level. There are now no support services at
the district level for agricultural crops.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

65.    No unintended outcome or impacts of the project could be identified.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

66.     There were no stakeholder workshops at the end of the project. A socio-economic
impact survey was carried out in early 2009, which surveyed 35 AAs and 700 water users
in these AAs. Besides collecting information on crop yields, the survey focused on
indicators related to services fee levels and collection rates. Irrigation service fees are set
very low and are by far insufficient to provide adequate operation and maintenance.
Despite these low levels, collection rates are very low as well. There is no collection in
the drainage schemes and in the irrigation areas they vary from 0 to about 70 percent.
The survey found that there is very little maintenance work being carried out by both the
AAs and the LTDs.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

67.      At the time of project completion, the risk that development outcomes will not be
sustained is high. The main risks relate: (i) to the ability of AAs to collect the
irrigation/drainage service fees and to adequately operate and maintain the on-farm
system; and (ii) to the LTD's ability to operate and, in particular maintain, the off-farm
systems, and to avert bankruptcy.

68.     If AAs in the irrigated areas are not strengthened, there will be no entity to
operate and maintain the on-farm infrastructure, or to organize fee collection for onward
payment to the LTDs. If maintenance is neglected, parts of the command area will cease,
in time, to be irrigable which means a return to pre-project conditions. This will affect
agricultural production and thus farm incomes in the scheme areas.



                                              15
69.      From 2007 onwards the charge for irrigation water has been a flat rate GEL 75/ha,
but payable only for land actually irrigated. Land tax for smallholders with less than 5 ha
has been abolished. Currently, therefore, there is a disincentive for farmers to apply for
irrigation water at the onset of the season (it would be logical for them to wait and see
how rains develop) and no penalty for those holding irrigable land but not making use of
irrigation. Thus the area base for charging is smaller than it need be and the
infrastructure is underutilized.

70.     Given the lack of established systems for management and funding of water
removal, as well as the generally low levels of agricultural productivity, high costs of
inputs and lack of support services, the prospects of maintaining even the present levels
of output on the rehabilitated drainage areas are not good. Farmers appreciate the
substantial benefits that improved drainage has provided in the rehabilitated drainage
systems and are currently maintaining field drains and some tertiary drains by hand.
However, if the higher order drains and pumps are not maintained in good operating
condition, water will back up in field drains and arable land will again become
waterlogged and weed infested. Also, if the AAs disband or are unable to ensure that
sufficient farmers collaborate to maintain tertiary drains, those farmers willing to
continue to maintain their own sections will find that they are working to no avail.

71.     For irrigated agriculture to prosper, new institutional arrangements and
collaborative relations with farmers will need to be established. This will demand
sustained work at all levels, from inter-ministerial/donor (strategy formulation and
acceptance) to the field (farmer awareness and public relations). A coordinated approach
is required which recognizes the importance of agriculture to national economic and
social welfare and hence the need to pursue effective agricultural development policies.
For drainage areas new market outlets for maize need to be established, development and
diversification supported with strong technical advice. Maintenance of drainage
infrastructure needs to be funded by broadening the base of fee collection.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

72.      The project was well designed following a long preparation period. This included
pilot interventions to test the AA concept, design of several main I&D structures, and
establishment of a qualified Project Technical Unit (PTU). In view of the particular
economic and social conditions prevailing in the country at the time, the project was
timely to address continuing deterioration of selected I&D systems, that would otherwise
result in more areas going out of production. It also represented one of the first attempts
after the collapse of state-managed farming systems to create owners and managers for
the on-farm level I&D systems. The need to strengthen, develop, and support AAs to
take on these new responsibilities was clearly recognized as a core element of the project.

                                            16
The realization that this is a long-term activity was one of the main reasons to opt for an
APC.

73.    The PAD was well written, clear and informative, with useful background
information and guidance on several key aspects (e.g. formation of AAs, method of
implementation and payment for on-farm works). Clear emphasis was placed on the
imperative of developing effective and sustainable AAs in order to ensure the proper
management, operation and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage infrastructure
following rehabilitation, and as part of a process of transferring the funding of system
MOM from government to water users.

74.    The Bank responded quickly after the severe flooding in the spring of 2005 and,
together with government agencies, prepared Additional Financing in a short period of
time.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

75.    Government and PTU have appreciated the IDA implementation review missions
which were regular, consistent (continuity of team members), and supportive in resolving
problems arising during implementation. Review teams based their advice on field visits
and thorough discussions with primary project stakeholders (farmers, AAs, LTDs, MOA,
MDF, Ministry of Finance, and PMU).

76.     Aide-memoires were well written, informative, and practical. They contained
both accurate assessment of implementation progress, transparent and critical analysis of
problems encountered, and pragmatic responses, recommendations, and solutions to
further improve implementation.

77.     The government's change of policy towards AAs and DASM in 2006 was rightly
identified as a key issue by the Bank's supervision team, and the potential negative
impacts on the project outcome was regularly highlighted. The supervision team
continued to work with government and was able to facilitate a compromise on AA
support and avert the full privatization of the main system service provider, DASM.

78.     The option of closing the project was considered at this time by Bank
management and the task team, but was rejected in favor of continuing a dialogue with
government. At the end of the project there were some signs that government is changing
its approach, and now sees benefit in supporting AAs. Bank management is proposing to
continue the dialogue with government during the next years, as part of sector work. In
retrospect, stronger efforts to either close the project early or elevate it in the Bank's
policy dialogue might have been justified.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory



                                             17
79.     Both quality at entry and the rapid response to addressing emergency flood needs
are considered satisfactory, as explained above. The task team provided strong
implementation support, and worked with the Government within the new policy
approach of the Government. However, this was not enough and in retrospect a stronger
effort by Bank management to either close the project early or elevate the project issues
would have been warranted.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

80.      The performance of Government was difficult since the 2004 Rose Revolution,
after which the Ministry of Agriculture went through weak leadership and declining
institutional support. This was further exacerbated since 2006 when: (i) DASM was
abolished; and (ii) the National and AA establishment Programs were cancelled. Though
the Bank expressed severe misgivings about the government's change of policy towards
participatory irrigation and drainage management these were not fully heeded (though it
did work with the Bank to find a compromise approach) and the consequences are now
becoming evident, as was predicted by the Bank task team at the time.

81.     The country's I&D infrastructure continues to deteriorate in the absence of
adequate resources for its sustainable operation and maintenance. This is a serious issue
for the sustainability of project investments, but more importantly, the I&D sub-sector
overall. Recent interventions in the sub-sector by government are short term and
strategically flawed. The simultaneous abolition of DASM and replacement by LTDs in
early 2007 has been calamitous. With the suspension of the AA National Program in
2006, the Government effectively signaled its lack of support for smallholder farmers,
and undermined a critical element of the project. The LTDs responsible for higher-order
infrastructures are effectively bankrupt, and project efforts to strengthen AAs to take
responsibility for their I&D infrastructure have been undermined.

82.     Further, policy and implementation responsibility was not straightforward. The
implementing agency for the project was formally transferred in August 2006 from the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) to the Municipal Development Fund. Since then, the
project has had no formal link with the MOA. Moreover, the LTDs are under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economic Development, with MOA acting in an advisory
role.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

83.    During the early project years the project management team was located within
the MOA. It comprised an Engineering Management Team (EMT) and an Institutional
Management Team (IMT). Fiduciary staff was located in a Project Coordination Center
(PCC) that supported all bank-funded projects in MOA. In August 2006, the project

                                           18
management team moved to MDF where an Irrigation Department was set up. Some of
the fiduciary staff was absorbed in the overall MDF fiduciary team.

84.     The staffing of the EMT was more or less constant for the duration of the project.
The situation for the IMT was different. In the IMT there were 20 staff involved in
formation, support and training of AAs from 2002 to early 2006, with a further 10 AA
Construction Supervision staff employed to supervise the on-farm rehabilitation works.
Following the changed MOA policy in 2006, there were only 9 IMT staff and no AA
Construction Supervision staff. Supervision of the on-farm rehabilitation work was
transferred to the remaining IMT staff, leaving them little time for formation, support and
training of AAs.

85.     Though the outcome of the institutional development component of the project
has been unsatisfactory, this is not considered to be the fault of the IMT, who endeavored
to continue support to AAs where they could, but with limited resources or manpower. In
fact they are to be commended for their professionalism and commitment to AA
development despite difficult conditions imposed on them outside of their control.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory.

86.     Despite all the good work done by the project's management team, the overall
borrower performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory due to the significant and
detrimental policy change by the MOA in 2006. The project was built on the two pillars
of physical rehabilitation and institutional development; one of these pillars was removed
by government in 2006 without due consideration being paid to the proper processes and
planning required to make the proposed changes for main system management function
effectively, and without due consideration of the need for, and importance of,
participatory on-farm management. Though the Government attempted to build a
compromise approach which would have allowed the LTDs and AAs to work in a
mutually supportive manner, it is clear in retrospect that the Government de facto did not
fully believe in this compromise and did not show adequate support to make it work.

6. Lessons Learned

87.    The main lessons learned are as follows:

88.     Importance of Consistent Government Support. Consistent Government support
is key for successful project implementation. Appropriate government policies have to be
in place for an enabling environment to allow project interventions to work successfully.

89.     Institutional Performance. Without a suitable institutional framework to manage,
operate and maintain irrigation and drainage infrastructure, investments in rehabilitation
are important, but nevertheless of short-term impact. The project has disbursed well over
US$40 million on rehabilitation and reconstruction of infrastructure over the past seven
years, over 90 percent on higher-order works. Without these investments, systems would
have likely gone out of operation. There is, however, every indication that these
                                             19
investments will deteriorate, sometimes suddenly due to insufficient staff, equipment and
funds to operate and maintain important structures.

90.     AA Selection for Rehabilitation. All AAs (about 30) located within the original
I&D schemes were automatically included for project support through seed money at
US$100/ha. Some AAs have shown little interest in utilizing these funds efficiently, for a
variety of reasons. Water is plentiful at the higher end of irrigation schemes, and some
land owners near urban locations have other business interests. The National Program
AAs were required to fulfill certain selection criteria, in order to become eligible for the
seed money. Future programs should apply selection criteria to all potential AA
participants, with support being provided on a `qualified first come first served basis'.

91.     Farmer Contributions to Rehabilitation. It has proven cumbersome to identify,
quantify and process the 20 percent farmer contributions required to match seed money
used for rehabilitation works. Moreover, the requirement that this contribution be settled
independently within each tranche payment caused delays, as it was not always possible
to allocate 20 percent of the works to the farmers for each tranche. The procedures were
changed to postpone final accounting of the farmers' contribution towards the end of the
overall works. In other words, some earlier tranches could have a contribution less that
20 percent, but the later tranches would have more than 20 percent. This adjustments
over final tranches reduced overall delays. The concept of contribution in kind (mainly
labor) has not worked well, partly due to the weak AAs, and in future projects it may be
preferable to monetize this cost-share element for repayment after a certain grace period.
However, this requires a workable cost-recovery mechanism, which could be combined
with future service fees.

92.      Funding of AA staff from Seed Money. A portion of the seed money was used to
support AA staff salaries during the project. Difficulties were being experienced by AA
management at the end of the project when the seed money was finished and they had to
start raising funds from AA members to cover AA management costs. It is recommended
that project funds are not used for funding AA staffing costs, as experience in several
countries has shown that this approach does not work and that AAs have a higher chance
of failure once project support is withdrawn.

93.     Land Tax in Irrigation and Drainage Schemes. In a measure to assist
smallholder farmers the government rescinded the land tax for landholdings under 5 ha.
An alternative to abandoning this tax in irrigation and drainage schemes would have been
to retain it and use the money for maintenance of the physical infrastructure. This would
then have provided regular maintenance funds and benefitted all farmers in the irrigation
and drainage schemes. Having a land tax would also encourage landholders who are not
using the land to sell it. Charging service fees in drainage schemes is difficult, as the
benefits of drainage extend beyond plot holders. A fixed property charge to all property
owners in a drainage scheme would be more equitable.




                                            20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

94.    Not applicable.

(b) Cofinanciers

95.    Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

96.    Not applicable.




                                      21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component
                                                            Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                       Percentage of
          Components                                        Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                           Appraisal
                                                               millions)
 IRRIGATION AND
DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
                                           14.08                 27.36         194%
REHABILITATION AND
MAINTENANCE
 AA DEVELOPMENT AND
STRENGTHENING FOR
                                           10.37                  3.67          35%
IMPROVED IRRIGATION AND
DRAINAGE MANAGEMENT
 PROJECT MANAGEMENT                         3.43                  4.67         136%
 FLOOD-DAMAGED
INFRASTRUCTURE                             16.10                 14.92          93%
REHABILITATION

            Total Baseline Cost            27.88
Physical Contingencies
                                            1.72
Price Contingencies
                                            2.00
             Total Project Costs           31.60                  50.62        182%
Front-end fee PPF                           1.20                   1.22        102%
Front-end fee IBRD
     Total Financing Required              32.80                  51.84        158%


(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                         Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                       Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                        millions)    millions)
Borrower                                             4.60         9.83         214%
International Development
                                                     27.00          41.38     153%
Association (IDA)
Local Farmer Organizations                           1.20           0.63      53%

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


97.     The project had two primary activities: (i) rehabilitation of I&D infrastructure;
and (ii) establishment of, and support to, AAs. The original approach consisted of a
Rehabilitation Program, a National AA Program, and an AA Establishment Program. At
                                              22
the core of each program was the participation of farmers, through AAs, in rehabilitating,
operating and maintaining the I&D systems.

    (i) Rehabilitation Program. Under this Program, the project has rehabilitated
        20,750 ha (planned area was about 20,000 ha) of higher order I&D systems
        (within four schemes), which are now in fully operational condition. This
        Program has also provided assistance for establishment and training of 28 AAs
        located within these schemes, and provided about US$1.80 million in grant `seed
        money' (up to US$100/ha) for rehabilitation and initial O&M of AA-managed
        networks. Farmers made a 20 percent contribution in kind (mostly labor) towards
        the value of seed-funded activities. This amounted to about US$0.45 million
        within the Rehabilitation Program.

    (ii) National AA Program. This program was intended to cover an area of about
         40,000 ha, with establishment, training, support, and rehabilitation using
         US$100/ha seed money on about 50 AA-managed networks. However, the
         higher-order systems would not be rehabilitated by the project, but a project
         amount of US$2.44 million for `targeted rehabilitation' was available to address
         upstream `bottlenecks' constraining water delivery or problems with main drains.
         However, about 30,000 ha was excluded from the National Program in 2006 by
         the then Minister of Agriculture. As a result, only 15 AAs have benefitted from
         the National AA Program serving 9,552 ha, or 24 percent of the original target. A
         total of US$0.82 million of seed money was disbursed, with another
         US$0.21 million contributed by farmers.

    (iii)AA Establishment Program. This Program aimed to provide establishment and
         training support on a demand basis to AAs covering approximately 50,000 ha.
         These AAs received no financing for rehabilitation and O&M of their systems,
         but were to be considered as "priority AAs" for the National AA Program during
         the proposed second phase of the APC. By August 2005, 106 AAs had been
         established by the project, commanding about 75,000 ha. Unfortunately the
         program was terminated by the MOA in 2006, and no further support was given to
         AAs under this Program.

Component 1: Irrigation and Drainage Systems Rehabilitation and Maintenance
(US$17.01 million original allocation)

98.     The main purpose of this component was to repair and rehabilitate I&D
infrastructure at five selected schemes in severely deteriorated conditions and thereby
improve irrigation water conveyance and distribution, and drainage discharge.4 The
component had three sub-components, namely: (i) rehabilitation of irrigation
infrastructure commanding 16,300 ha (US$11.78 million); (ii) rehabilitation of drainage


4
    Kvemo Alazani irrigation scheme (8,550 ha); Tashiskari irrigation scheme (7,500 ha); Meshketi Group
    irrigation (280 ha, Giorgitsminda); Rioni Choloki drainage scheme (2,030 ha); and Rioni Khobi
    drainage scheme (1,700 ha).
                                                  23
infrastructure covering about 3,700 ha (US$2.80 million); and (iiii) targeted rehabilitation
of infrastructure that supports the National AA program (US$2.44 million).

99.    Costs for works completed under this component are show in Table 2, and include
additional works from funding reallocation, and savings.

                      Table 2: Main I&D Rehabilitation Program (Original Credit)
                                                               No           Cost $ million                          Contract
                                                              Contr              a/              b/    %        start      end               mnths
                                                                          PAD          Actual
    A. Civil Works
        Irrigation
             Tashiskari Scheme                                       5        5.88          9.37             15-Oct-02 30-Jun-08                68.5
             Kvemo Alazani Scheme                                    5        4.84          8.73              1-Mar-03 10-Nov-08                68.4
             Meshketi                                                         0.14          0.00                  abandoned due to high costs
                                  Irrigation                       10        10.86         18.10      69%
        Drainage
             Rioni-Choloki Scheme                                    2         1.45          1.07            15-Apr-02 31-Mar-06                47.5
             Rioni-Khobi Scheme                                      2         1.08          1.08             1-Apr-02 22-Dec-05                44.7
                                  Drainage                           4         2.53          2.15      8%                                       48.0
               Targeted Rehabilitation                                         2.27          0.00
                                      c/                             7         0.00          6.06     23%    15-Nov-04       30-Apr-09          53.5
               Additional Works
                                   Total Civil Works               21        15.65         26.31      100%     1-Apr-02      30-Apr-09          85.0

    B. Design and Construction Supervision
        Irrigation                                                   2         1.10          1.13     75%     28-Jul-03 31-Dec-06               41.2
         Drainage                                                    2         0.27          0.23     15%     5-Sep-03 31-Dec-05                27.9
               Poti Diversion Dam                                    2         0.00          0.15     10%    15-Oct-04 20-Mar-06                17.1
                           Total D&C Supervision                     6         1.37          1.51     100%    28-Jul-03 30-Jun-08               59.1
                                       TOTAL (Original Credit)               17.01         27.82
    Notes:
    a/   Includes all physical and price contingencies (from PAD costab tables, May 2001)
    b/   Actual costs from accounting system; based on exchange rate at date of payment
    c/   Except for Poti Diversion, D&C supervision for additional works financed from additional financing (flood works); additional works detailed in
         Table 2

    Source: PTU, MDF, Tbilisi (and PAD cost tables), April 2009




100.     The inventory of main I&D structures completed under this component is in Table
3.




                                                                           24
                  Table 3: Structures Completed under the Main I&D Rehabilitation Program
                                              (Original Credit)
                                                       Irrigation                      Drainage
                                                 Kvemo                      Rioni       Rioni       Tsivi
                                                 Alazani      Tashiskari   Choloki      Khobi      Tekhuri      Irrigation    Drainage    Total
    Pump stations                           No          -            -           -             1          -               1         -           1
    Main drains                             km          -            -         24.10       12.03      23.22           59.35         -       59.35
    Collector drains                        km          -            -         83.92       45.10          -          129.02         -      129.02
    Cross regulators                        No          -            -           -             1            3             4         -           4
    Bridges                                 No          -            -            20           9            9            38         -          38
    Culverts                                No        139            228          60          82          -             142         367       509
    Headworks                               No            1            1         -           -            -               2         -           2
    Main canals                             km       39.84         57.72         -           -            -             -         97.56     97.56
    Earth canals                            km       73.32         92.87         -           -            -             -        166.19    166.19
    Concrete canals                         km       36.76         77.28         -           -            -             -        114.04    114.04
    Tunnels                                 No            4            3           2           2            1             5           7        12
    Inverted siphons                        No            2            6         -           -            -             -             8         8
    Galleries                               No            8            1         -           -            -             -             9         9
    Superpassage                            No           36           23         -           -            -             -            59        59
    Offtakes (turnout boxes)                No           82          164         -           -            -             -           246       246
    Check structure                         No            3            4           2           2            1             5           7        12
    Spillways                               No            4            3         -           -            -             -             7         7
    Secondary canals                        km      116.64        160.73         -           -            -             -        277.36    277.36
    Subsurface pipeline                     km       46.40         48.22         -           -            -             -         94.62     94.62
    Outlets                                 No         375         1,886         -           -            -             -         2,261     2,261
    Hydrants                                No            4            3           2           2            1             5           7        12

    AAs                                     No         12            10           6            4         -             22            10        32
    Area                                    ha      8,692         7,881       2,070        2,107      14,900       16,573         4,177    20,750
    Source: PTU, MDF, Tbilisi, April 2009




           a) Sub-Component 1A: Rehabilitation of Irrigation Infrastructure

101. This sub-component was intended to finance the comprehensive rehabilitation and
reconstruction of three irrigation systems (Kvemo Alazani, Tashiskari, and Meshketi)5
which were all in a critical operational condition. The project planned to rehabilitate
main water abstraction systems, including headworks, conveyance and distribution
canals, a conveyance tunnel, and hydraulic structures. The project was expected to
improve the performance of these systems serving about 16,300 ha.

102. Rehabilitation was completed as planned at Kvemo Alazani and Tashiskari
irrigation schemes benefiting 16,570 ha. Total costs were US$18.10 million, nearly
69 percent higher than estimated at appraisal. The main reasons for this large increase
was a combination of: (i) low cost estimates at the time of project design when real prices
were difficult to determine; (ii) high cost increases in fuel, equipment and construction
materials, especially during 2006-2007; (iii) excessive delays between initial field
surveys for design and actual construction resulting in further system deterioration; and
(iv) additional unforeseen works during contract implementation. Due to high investment
costs in the final engineering design (US$1,180/ha), planned rehabilitation works at the
small Meshketi group (280 ha) were cancelled in March 2006 by the Minister of
Agriculture.

103. The rehabilitation works on Tashiskari and Kvemo Alazani schemes were carried
out under ten civil works contracts, five at each scheme. Works included rehabilitation of

5
           This site is referred to as Giorgitsminda in the PAD.
                                                                                 25
the Khashuri tunnel at the head of the Tashiskari scheme, rehabilitation of the headworks,
cleaning of and repair to main canals and secondary networks, installation of measuring
structures, and construction of associated structures (gated regulators, siphons, aqueducts,
and overpasses) at both schemes. The secondary distribution systems included both
surface canals and subsurface pipe networks (with hydrants). Completed structures are
shown in Table 3 above. Excluding the tunnel, which serves a larger area than was
rehabilitated (15,000 ha), the average rehabilitation cost over both irrigation schemes was
US$1,090/ha. Designs were prepared during project preparation for initial works at all
four I&D schemes, including the Khashuri tunnel and Kvemo Alazani headworks, to
facilitate an early start to the program. The Khashuri tunnel was especially important, as
it was in imminent danger of collapse and severely restricting water delivery to the
Tashiskari irrigation system.6 The poor condition of the Kvemo Alazani headworks,
serving 19,800 ha, made it difficult to operate and deliver design flows into the system.
The Khashuri tunnel and the Kvemo Alazani headworks were correctly identified as early
project activities.

104. The works were implemented over 68 months, nearly six years. Original
contracts ranged from three to sixteen months, but, with the exception of the Khashuri
tunnel, all experienced significant delays during implementation from seven to
seventeen months.7 These delays were caused by a combination of poor weather
conditions (freezing and wet conditions over winter and spring), unforeseen additional
works, access restrictions during the irrigation season, disagreements between MOA and
IDA about the scope of contracts, and under-performing contractors. None of the
contracts was terminated.

105. Water extraction from the Rioni and Alazani Rivers is now assured, as is its
conveyance through canals and pipes to farmers' landholdings within the areas
rehabilitated. On rehabilitated areas, structures are now in place to regulate and measure
water delivery into secondary networks, and control flows within on-farm networks.
Farmers report improvements in water availability, especially towards the tail end of the
areas rehabilitated.

106. About 2,000 ha towards the end of the Tashiskari system are now receiving
irrigation water for the first time in a decade, and farmers are actively increasing
production, including high value fruit and vegetables. Despite the improvements,
significant areas remain unirrigated, and farmers are not contributing sufficient fees
towards the maintenance of irrigation systems. Unless there are radical improvements in
management, operation and maintenance of the systems, deterioration and subsequent
collapse is inevitable.

    b) Sub-component 1B: Rehabilitation of Drainage Infrastructure



6
    The discharge (4.5m3/sec) before rehabilitation was only half the design capacity (9m3/sec).
7
    The third stage contract on the Tashiskari irrigation scheme experienced the worst delays, and was
    extended by 17 months under three separate variation orders.
                                                   26
107. This sub-component financed rehabilitation of the Rioni Choloki and Rioni Khobi
drainage schemes in Western Georgia. The condition of these systems was such that the
ability to drain water away from AA areas was very restricted. Rioni Choloki is drained
by gravity and Rioni Khobi needs pumping from 600 ha. Proposed rehabilitation works
included cleaning of main and secondary collector drains, limited repairs to river
embankments and service roads, and the replacement of three 45 kW drainage pumps.

108. Rehabilitation has been completed as planned on the two schemes, benefiting
almost 4,200 ha. Total costs were US$2.15 million, 15 percent below the estimate at
appraisal. The average rehabilitation cost over both drainage schemes was US$514/ha.
Rehabilitation works were carried out under four civil works contracts, two at each
scheme. Works included repairs to the pump station at Rioni-Khobi, desilting and
reshaping of main open collector drains and secondary networks, and rehabilitation and
construction of associated structures (gated regulators, bridges, and culverts). Completed
structures are shown in Table 3 (above).

109. Original contracts ranged from three to thirteen months, and three were completed
ahead of schedule and one was delayed by only three months. The satisfactory
performance of these drainage contracts reflects the less complex activities, and easier
working conditions than those encountered on irrigation schemes. For example,
earthworks are a major element of these contracts, which can be readily accomplished
almost any time during the year with excavation machinery.

110. Farmers report significant improvements in crop production (especially of maize),
primarily due both to the increase in drained land available for crops, and increase in
yields. The main collector drains remain in good condition, as these only require periodic
cleaning every 10-15 years. However, AAs are not maintaining in-field drains, which has
to be done on a regular basis. Unfortunately, farmers are not contributing sufficient fees
towards the maintenance of drainage systems, a major issue for future sustainability.

   c) Sub-component 1C: Targeted Rehabilitation of Infrastructure for National AA
      Program

111. This sub-component was intended to ensure irrigation supply to or effective
drainage from schemes selected for the National AA Program. The project would finance
repairs to relevant critical bottlenecks in main systems beyond the boundaries of
AA-managed networks. To qualify for financing, works would need to demonstrably
increase or guarantee water supply at moderate cost. Works were to be selected in the
course of identifying AAs to be included in the National AA Program.

112. Following the decision of the Minister of Agriculture to curtail the National AA
Program in 2006, this sub-component for targeted rehabilitation was cancelled, and the
funds transferred for rehabilitation of additional works under this I&D component (next
section).




                                            27
Additional Contracts Financed from Original Credit

113. Due to substantial gains from SDR-USD exchange (about US$4.4 million gain),
and reductions in the component related to AA infrastructure development and AA
institutional support, it was possible to allocate more funds for rehabilitation of I&D
systems under the original credit.8 Seven more contracts were completed at six sites,
including additional works on Kvemo Alazani and Tashiskari irrigation schemes.
Additional works completed are shown in Table 4.

                                 Table 4: Additional Works (Original Credit)
                                                 No    $ mn                                      Contract
                                                Contr Actual a/ %                            start      end     mnths
             Poti diversion dam                     2     2.60 43%                         15-Nov-04 20-Mar-06    16.1
             Ilto siphon                            1     1.53 25%                         15-Aug-07 15-Oct-08    14.0
             Ajameti headworks                      1     0.43 7%                           20-Jul-07 20-Jun-08   11.0
             Drainage protection works b/           1     0.35 6%                          15-Oct-07 19-Jul-08     9.1
             Breti and Shaqshaqeti siphons c/       1     0.60 10%                          1-Aug-08 30-Apr-09     8.9
             Kvemo Alazani canal cleaning d/        1     0.56 9%                          10-Nov-08 30-Apr-09     5.6
                                          Total     7     6.06 100%                        15-Nov-04 30-Apr-09    53.5
             Notes:
             Except for Poti diversion, all D&C supervision costs were from Additional Financing (floods)

             a/   Actual costs from accounting system; based on exchange rate at date of invoice payments
             b/   Flood protection of the drainage schemes in Tsivi-Tekhuri, Tekhuri-Nogela and Nogela-Tskhenistskali Areas in
                  Senaki and Abasha Districts
             c/   Rehabilitation of Breti & Shaqshaqeti Inverted Siphons in Tashiskari Main Canal
             d/   Rehabilitation of Kvemo Alazani IS Main Canal from 39,840 km To 91,020 km; same contract as cross drainage (see
                  flood works)

             Source: PTU, MDF, Tbilisi (and PAD cost tables), April 2009



    (i) Poti Diversion Dam. Two contracts to repair and stabilize an important diversion
        and regulation structure on the Rioni River near Poti, the county's main port on
        the Black Sea, were implemented. Total costs were US$2.60 million, and this
        structure is now performing satisfactorily. This work was not foreseen in the
        original project scope, and was added when the structure was found to be in a
        critical condition. The first contract included repairs to hydro-mechanical and
        electrical equipment to ensure the main gates are fully operational. The second,
        larger contract comprised major work to the foundation to stabilize the structure.
        Works included installation of gabions, filling the voids under the main structure
        (sand-cement grout), and removal of a sheet pile wall downstream. Most works
        under the second contract were carried out under water, as the water level is
        dictated by the Black Sea, and this complicated the task.

    (ii) Other Additional Works. Damaged infrastructure at three sites proposed for
         funding from the Additional Financing for flood-damaged infrastructure (see
         below) was mainly due to lack of maintenance, and not caused by recent floods.
         These works were therefore transferred for financing from the original credit9
         (US$2.31 million). Two further contracts were also added to the original credit
8
    In August 2006, 46 national AAs were excluded from the program, with savings of about
    US$3.20 million; targeted rehabilitation comprising US$2.44 was also cancelled.
9
    Ilto Siphon, Ajameti Headworks, and drainage systems in Senaki and Abasha Districts.
                                                                      28
         (US$1.16 million) for rehabilitation of two siphons (Breti and Shakshaketi) on the
         Tashiskari scheme, and cleaning the main canal for the remainder of the Kvemo
         Alazani scheme downstream from the rehabilitation area.10 Both contracts bring
         major benefits to farmers towards the tail end of the systems, which suffer
         annually from serious water shortages. Repairs to the Ilto siphon will also bring
         major benefits to downstream irrigators, with flow increased by a factor of three.11

114. These additional structures completed from the original credit are shown in Table
6 below.

New Component: Flood Damaged Infrastructure Reconstruction (Additional
Financing US$16.10 million)12

115. Georgia experienced exceptionally high rainfall during spring and early summer
of 2005, which resulted in serious flooding in many areas causing damage to river banks
and irrigation infrastructure, especially headworks. An emergency reconstruction
component was added to the project in June 2005, with project activities under the
original credit continuing in parallel. This additional component included reconstruction
of flood protection embankments, irrigation headworks, and conveyance canals destroyed
or severely damaged by floods. Works comprised protection of river banks with river
training structures (lining, spurs, and embankments) using crushed rocks and gabions. A
list of 34 priority locations of flood damaged infrastructure were identified during
preparation for additional financing in May 2005.13 Costs for works completed under this
additional financing are shown in Table 5.




10
     Cleaning and re-profiling the main canal for the remaining 51.2 km; this extension serves a further
     11,250 ha of Kvemo Alazani irrigation scheme, originally planned for rehabilitation under phase 2.
11
     The Ilto siphon comprises two circular pipes, each of 3m diameter with a total design discharge of
     24m3/sec, restricted to 8m3/sec before rehabilitation, and now reinstated.
12
     US$13.00 million from IDA (US$7.80 million credit and US$5.20 million grant), and US$3.10 million
     as CPF from government; sub-components comprise: (i) Reconstruction of River Protection and
     Irrigation Infrastructure US$15.80 million, and (ii) Project Management and Implementation Support
     US$0.30 million.
13
     The priority locations are listed in the Project Paper on proposed additional IDA financing (Annex 1);
     and the Addendum to the Project Paper (Annex 1), June 2006.
                                                    29
           Table 5: Flood Damaged Infrastructure Reconstruction (Additional Financing)
                                                                   No    Cost $ million                                Contract
                                                                  Contr Paper a/ Actual b/                 %       start      end      mnths
  A. Civil Works
      Rioni River                                                          3                  2.08         14%   10-Jan-06 20-Jun-08    29.3
      Tskhenistskali River                                                 7                  5.69         40%   16-Jan-06 23-Dec-08    35.2
      Aragvi River                                                         2                  1.72         12%   24-Feb-06 30-Jun-06     4.1
      Ilto headworks                                                       1                  0.74         5%    10-Nov-06 10-Jul-07     8.0
      Kvemo Alazani headworks                                              1                  0.38         3%     1-May-06 1-May-07     12.0
      Akhali Sadakhlo IS and Zemo Samgori IS                               1                  0.68         5%    15-Jun-07 15-Apr-08    10.0
      Zhinvali dam spillway                                                1                  1.78         12%   23-Feb-06 30-Apr-07    14.2
      Khoni-Samtredia IS headworks                                         1                  0.12         1%     7-Nov-05 7-Mar-06      3.9
      Kvemo Alazani IS cross drainage works                                1                  1.18         8%    10-Nov-08 30-Apr-09     5.6
                             Total Civil Works                            18        15.80    14.37     100%       7-Nov-05 30-Apr-09    41.8
  B. Design and Construction Supervision
      Five companies
                      Total D&C Supervision                               18         0.30      0.61              22-Sep-05 30-Dec-08    39.3
                                   TOTAL (Additional Financing)                     16.10    14.98
  Notes:
  a/   Includes all physical and price contingencies for Additional Financing (Project Paper, June 2005)
  b/   Actual costs from accounting system; based on exchange rate at date of invoice payments

  Source: PTU, MDF, Tbilisi (and Project Paper cost tables), April 2009



116. Eighteen reconstruction contracts have been completed for a total cost of
US$14.37 million. Twelve contracts comprised river bank protection structures at
damaged sections of the Rioni, Tskhenistkali, and Aragvi Rivers (US$9.46 million).
Works included protection of river banks with river training structures (spurs and
embankments) using rocks, gabions, and Reno mattresses. Six contracts were awarded to
repair flood damage to various main structures at six irrigation schemes
(US$4.89 million). Works included repairs to hydro-mechanical equipment and damaged
concrete, and sediment removal. One of these contracts is for rehabilitation of four
critical cross-drainage points along the main Kvemo Alazani canal. The main canal has
been damaged on several occasions during scheme rehabilitation when heavy rain
deposited sediment and debris into the canal, cutting water supplies. The problem is
caused by inadequate maintenance of several stream sections (above and below the
canal), where these cross-over the main canal. Adjacent agricultural land is also damaged
by these uncontrolled flows. This cross drainage problem is endemic to the Kvemo
Alazani irrigation system. Project improvements will reduce the problem at critical
points for some years, but future periodic cross drainage maintenance along the entire
90 km canal is essential to avoid annual crises which have arisen with increasing
frequency in recent years.

117. Original contracts ranged from three to fourteen months, with seven completed on
or ahead of schedule, and the worst delayed by six months. Two contracts were extended
a month to compensate for delays caused by the imposition of martial law in August
2008. Despite the delays, these flood contracts have been executed with much greater
efficiency than the irrigation rehabilitation contracts. Construction works were generally
fully satisfactory and completed infrastructure has been able to withstand floods with
ease. The project introduced modern designs and construction methods for river training


                                                                               30
structures which have proven successful under Georgian conditions.14 The technology
has been adopted by national engineers for flood control applications.

118. The inventory of all main I&D structures and flood damaged works completed
under the project are in Table 6.

      Table 6: Structures Completed under the Main I&D (Additional Contracts) and Flood-
                              Damaged Infrastructure Program
                                                          Original Credit                      Additional Financing
                                              Irrigation                   Drainage                Flood Works                                       Total
Structures                              Original       Addition      Original    Addition     River Prot Structures     Original    Addition       River Prot   Structures   Total
Headworks                          No            2              1                         1                         3           2              2                         3         7
Tunnel                             m        3,300                                                                           3,300                                              3,300
Main Canal
   Length                          km       97.56         51.18        36.13         23.22          8.89      217.40      133.69        74.40            8.89      217.40     434.38
   Inverted siphons                No           8             3                                                    1           8            3                           1         12
   Galleries                       No           9             1                                                                9            1                                     10
   Superpassages                   No          59            30           29                          1                       88           30               1                    119
   Spillways                       No        246                                                                             246                                                 246
   Check structures                No          23                                                                             23                                                  23
Secondary Canals
   Spillways                       No           7                                                                              7                                                   7
   Length                          km      277.36                     129.02                                              406.38                                              406.38
   Weirs                           No       2,261                                                                          2,261                                               2,261
   Hydrants                        No       2,081                                                                          2,081                                               2,081
Bank Protection
   Earth embankments               m                                                   800       15,381          202                     800          15,381          202     16,383
   Crushed stone lining            m                        876                                   4,898          202                     876           4,898          202      5,976
   Spurs                           m                                                   176        2,533                                  176           2,533                   2,709

     Area                                  16,573        40,500        4,177        14,900       28,500       24,000      20,750      55,400          28,500       24,000    128,650
Source: PTU, MDF, Tbilisi, April 2009




Design and Construction Supervision

119. The project established an Engineering Management Team within the PTU, which
remained essentially intact during project implementation. EMT was headed by one
senior engineer with 5-6 supporting engineers deployed to oversee the main rehabilitation
program on a geographical basis. The project engaged consulting companies to provide
design and construction supervision services for all main infrastructure works on I&D
schemes and flood-damaged infrastructure. In total, six companies were recruited, with
two companies securing the majority of the work.15 Designs have been prepared to a
satisfactory technical standard, and in full compliance with Georgian engineering and
environmental requirements. Design work was complete in 2007, with services for
construction supervision continuing to project closure.

120. Main works have been undertaken through civil works contractors procured
through procedures acceptable to IDA and GOG. All works have been executed by
national companies with the exception of few flood protection works. Construction
works have generally been implemented in a satisfactory manner, though some
shortcomings have been observed with quality, especially under irrigation contracts.
State recognized procedures for quality control for civil works were overseen by site
engineers and mainly comprised in-situ and laboratory tests (materials and concrete


14
         In particular, the use of: (i) `rock placement' to reinforce and strengthen spurs and embankments;
         (ii) rock aprons to protect foundations; and (iii) submerged gabion spurs to withstand high river flows.
15
         Georgian Water Project JSC and Design-Technological Bureau, Ltd.
                                                                                              31
quality, embankment and backfill compaction, etc.), and visual and topographic
inspection.

Component 2: AA Development and Strengthening for Improved Irrigation and
Drainage

(a) Sub-component 2A: Support for AAs in the Rehabilitation Program and the National
Program

Physical Works

121. This sub-component was to finance rehabilitation and improvement of
AA-managed I&D infrastructure and some equipment and initial operation and
maintenance costs. The intended AA rehabilitation program comprised: (i) the
Rehabilitation Program of about 20,000 ha within schemes where higher-order
infrastructure would be rehabilitated by the project (termed Scheme AAs); and (ii) the
National Program of about 40,000 ha managed by AAs elsewhere in the country (termed
National AAs).

122. For this purpose, AAs would receive US$100/ha of seed money on a grant basis,
while the AA members would contribute twenty percent, either in cash or in-kind.16 Up
to US$20/ha was allowed for O&M to: (i) prepare a development plan detailing O&M
expenditure and rehabilitation works to be undertaken; (ii) pay modest salaries for a
manager, accountant and seasonal water bailiffs; and (iii) purchase minor items of office
furniture and equipment. The remaining 80 percent or more was available for
rehabilitation works. Under an initial seed money grant, consultant engineers were
engaged to prepare a development plan for each AA which, in close consultation with AA
members, detailed agreed priority works to be rehabilitated, including a 20 percent
contribution from farmers.

123. The procedures for disbursement of seed money were described in an AA
operational manual, which was revised as needed to capture required changes. These
arrangements are based on methods developed for implementation of small-scale
community works. The project design envisaged a self-help approach which would act as
a catalyst for farmers to work together to rehabilitate their relatively simple on-farm
systems.

124.     AAs where rehabilitation works have been completed are shown in Table 7.




16
     In the PAD, seed money is presented as US$105/ha, with 25 percent farmer contribution; at an early
     stage, this was adjusted in the operational manual to US$100/ha and 20 percent farmer contribution.
                                                    32
                                Table 7: Use of Seed Funds for AA Rehabilitation Program
                                                         Area                                  $'000
                                          No AAs          ha        DP         O&M    Rehab      Total   Savings     Provision
                  Scheme AAs
                    drainage                      8       3,955           33     35      326       395           1           396
                    irrigation                   20      15,813          102    117    1,183     1,402         185         1,581
                            sub-total            28      19,769          135    153    1,510     1,797         186         1,977
                  National AAs
                    drainage                      5       1,931          16      21     138        174          19           193
                    irrigation                   10       7,621          47      68     533        648         114           762
                            sub-total            15       9,552          63      88     671        822         132           955
                  Total AAs
                    drainage                     13       5,886           49     56      464       569          20           589
                    irrigation                   30      23,434          148    185    1,717     2,050         298         2,343
                        Project Total            43      29,320          197    241    2,181     2,619         318         2,931
                 Note: cancelled works excluded from area and AA count

                 Source: PTU, MDF, Tbilisi, April 2009



125. The inventory of structures completed under the AA rehabilitation program is in
Table 8.

                     Table 8: Structures Completed under the AA Rehabilitation Program
                                                          National AAs                   Scheme AAs                   Rehabilitation AAs
Structures                                   Unit Drain    Irrgn     Total      Drain     Irrgn      Total      Drain     Irrgn      TOTAL
Simple headworks                             No        -           1          1      -          -          -         -             1        1
Main canals cleaned                          km        -        34.8     34.8        -          -          -         -            35     34.8
Concrete canal lining                        km        -         0.1       0.1       -          -          -         -             0      0.1
Reinforced concrete canalettes               km        -         0.9       0.9       -           0.5       0.5       -             1      1.4
Earth canal cleaning                         km        -        72.9     72.9        -        328.1     328.1        -          401     401.0
Creating tertiary and field channels         km        -        57.6     57.6        -        397.4     397.4        -          455     455.0
Aqeducts                                     No        -         2.0       2.0       -          -          -         -             2      2.0
Distribution wells                           No        -          28         28      -          -          -         -            28       28
Cross regulators                             No        -          30         30      -          -          -         -            30       30
Outlets with culvert                         No        -          33         33      -          109       109        -          142       142
Check structures                             No        -          23         23      -          -          -         -            23       23
Outlets                                      No        -          80         80      -          194       194        -          274       274
Closed pipeline                              km        -          84         84      -            62         62      -          146       146
Hydrants                                     No        -          27         27      -          394       394        -          421       421
Plastic pipes                                km        -         -         -         -         16.6      16.6        -            17     16.6
Collectors cleaned                           km       82.5      38.1    120.6      229.6         3.6    233.1        312          42    353.7
Crossings over collectors                    No        -         -         -         -             1          1      -             1        1
Field drains cleaned                         km      178.5       -      178.5      895.9        -       895.9      1,074        -     1,074.4
Subsurface drains                            km        -         -         -         -           0.6       0.6       -             1      0.6
Culverts                                     No          3       101      104          17       771       788          20       872       892
Zinc-coated pipe                             km        -        0.27     0.27        -          -          -         -             0     0.27
Pump stations                                No        -           4          4      -          -          -         -             4        4
                                                                                                                     -          -
AAs                                          No          4        11         15         8         21         29        12         32       44
Area                                         ha      1,378     7,676    9,054      3,955     16,299    20,254      5,333     23,975    29,308
Source: PTU, MDF, Tbilisi, April 2009




126. The AA development program was curtailed in 2006, with government showing
little interest in implementing a large-scale AA development program. Government and
IDA agreed that the AA program would focus on the AAs in the schemes that had been
part of the Rehabilitation Program and those National Program AAs where
implementation of the Development Plan was already ongoing.


                                                                           33
127. Overall, the project has completed rehabilitation of I&D infrastructure on 43 AAs
at a cost of US$3.43 million, benefiting 29,300 ha.17 Rehabilitation was completed for
28 Scheme AAs of the Rehabilitation Program at a cost of US$2.25 million, benefiting
19,800 ha. Three quarters of this area is for AAs located within irrigation schemes. The
National Program was curtailed to only 15 AAs at a cost of US$1.03 million, benefiting
9,600 ha. This is less than a quarter of the planned target of 40,000 ha. Nearly
80 percent of this area is for AAs with irrigation networks.

128. The Development Plans detail agreed priority works to be rehabilitated, including
a 20 percent contribution from farmers. The Development Plan has typically been
prepared over 6-8 months at an average cost of about US$4,600 (US$6.7/ha). The annual
scope of work was largely dictated by the number of design consultants available.18
During this process, AAs decided whether rehabilitation works would be undertaken
directly by themselves or through a contractor. As a contract incurs valued added tax,
most early batches of AAs elected to undertake their own works. However, many AAs
have been unable to carry out this work efficiently, resulting in long delays. In May
2007, it was agreed that the final batch of 12 AAs would be encouraged to undertake
works through a contractor.

129. Out of the 43 AAs in the AA rehabilitation program, 22 AAs elected to carry out
the works using their own resources. Twenty one AAs engaged contractors. The
distribution of AAs among project-supported schemes and elsewhere are shown in Table
9.

                                     Table 9: AA Rehabilitation Program - AAs by Scheme
                                                                     Kvemo Alazani
                                         Giorgitsminda




                                                                                                                      Rioni-Choloki
                                                                                                     Ochkhamuri




                                                                                                                                          Rioni-Khobi
                         Gardabani




                                                                                                                                                            Tashiskari




                                                                                                                                                                                      Tireponi



                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tekhuri
                                                                                                                                                                         Kumisi
                                                         Khram




                                                                                                                                                                         Tbisi-




                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tsivi-
                                                                                         Local
                                                         Arkhi




                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total

Scheme AAs
   drainage          -               -                   -       -                   -           -                        4                  4          -                -        -              -           8
   irrigation        -               -                   -           10              -           -                -                   -                     10           -        -              -          20
      sub-total      -                       1           -           11              -           -                        4                  4              10           -        -              -          28
National AAs
   drainage          -               -                   -       -                        1             1                 2           -                 -                -        -                  1       5
   irrigation              1                 1               3   -                        3      -                -                   -                 -                -              2        -          10
      sub-total            1                 1               3   -                        4             1                 2           -                 -                -              2            1      15
Total AAs
   drainage          -               -                   -       -                        1             1                 6                  4          -                -        -                  1       13
   irrigation              1                 1               3       10                   3      -                -                   -                     10           -              2        -           30
 Project Total             1                1                3   10                       4            1                 6                   4          10               -              2            1      43
     Schemes where main system infrastructure was rehabilitated under the project
Source: PTU, MDF, Tbilisi, April 2009


17
      This includes 20 percent farmers' contribution in kind.
18
      Thirteen consultants were pre-selected by IDPIU for their technical competence, and each AA made
      their selection from this group; the consultants engaged other specialists to assist (economists,
      surveyors, etc.).
                                                                                                     34
130. Seed funds for rehabilitation were disbursed to AAs in tranches, with each tranche
usually under US$10,000. AA field supervisors ensured that works and payments were
reported correctly to PTU, including the 20 percent contribution from AA members.
Initially, this process was unduly cumbersome, and changes were introduced to reduce
the number of tranches and postpone final accounting of the farmers' contribution
towards the end of the work, especially where contractors were involved. This resulted in
a marked improvement in progress of the AA rehabilitation program. The project's
Engineering Management Team was responsible for construction supervision until
August 2006, when the AA program was curtailed. Thereafter, technical supervision was
taken on by the project's AA support staff. In retrospect, EMT should have retained this
responsibility, to maintain adequate technical supervision and allow AA support staff to
remain dedicated to their main function of institutional development.

Seed Money Disbursement

131. Total seed money expenditure was US$2.63 million (Table 10, Figure 1). Some
US$208,000 (8 percent) has been used for Development Plan preparation for 46 AAs,
US$244,000 was allocated for O&M (9 percent), and US$2.18 million (83 percent) for
rehabilitation works at 43 AAs.

             Table 10 : Annual Disbursement of Seed Money 2003-2009 (US$ `000)
                                                         2003               2004               2005      2006         2007              2008        2009    Total
     DP preparation (consultant)                             7                69                 78        -            54                -           -        208    8%
     Operation and Maintenance                               1                14                 45         68          28                 57          29      244    9%
     Rehabilitation                                        -                  37                372       544          234               706         284     2,177   83%
                          Total                              9               121                495       612          316               763         314     2,629   100%
                                                                   0%              5%            19%         23%             12%           29%        12%     100%

     Source: PTU, MDF, Tbilisi, 2009



                  Figure 1: Cumulative Use of Seed Funds 2003-2009 (US$100/ha)
                                                               3,000.0

                                                                                                                                          2.63 mn

                                                               2,500.0



                                                               2,000.0
                                   US$ '000




                                                               1,500.0



                                                               1,000.0



                                                                500.0



                                                                   -
                                                                            2003    2004         2005     2006      2007       2008        2009

                                              Rehabilitation                 -          37.1     409.0    952.5    1,186.6    1,892.8     2,177.2
                                              Operation and Maintenance     1.4         15.6     60.9     128.9     157.3      214.4       243.5
                                              DP preparation (consultant)   7.4         76.8     154.3    154.3     207.9      207.9       207.9




Institutional Development

(b) Sub-component 2b: AA Establishment Program.

132. The AA Establishment Program was terminated by the MOA in early 2006. Until
this time the progress with establishment of AAs was successful, with more than 255
AAs by August 2005, including 106 by the project. The total area covered by these AAs
                                                                                                35
was 227,946 ha, well in excess of the 50,000 ha specified in the PAD. A total of 21 staff
were employed by the Institutional Management Team (IMT) providing support to these
fledgling Associations, with a Team Leader, Training Specialist, Seed Capital Monitoring
Specialist, a translator/interpreter, two AA Coordinators based in Tbilisi, six AA Support
Specialists operating out of five field offices in the East and eight AA Support Specialists
operating out of six field offices in the West. In addition there were ten AA Construction
Supervisors overseeing the on-farm construction work in 15 AAs covering 7,801 ha. The
AA training program was being implemented by a consulting firm. The only major
problem reported in the early stages of the project was the issue of high notary fees
charged for the transfer of I&D assets to AAs, which meant that only 40 AAs had
managed to complete the transfer process by August 2005.

133. By August 2006, as a result of the MOA change of policy, the staffing of the
Institutional Management Team was cut to 9 people, comprising the two AA
Coordinators, six field staff and the Seed Capital Monitoring Specialist. In addition the
AA Construction Supervisors were made redundant and their work transferred to the 6
remaining IMT field staff. These changes terminated the AA Establishment Program and
effectively terminated the project's institutional development activities with the IMT staff
now having to focus on construction supervision rather than institutional development
and support to AAs.

(c) Sub-component 2c: Support for DASM

134. Limited support was provided to DASM by the project in the form of office
equipment and vehicles for regional offices where rehabilitation works were being carried
out under the Rehabilitation Program. A restructuring study was financed to make
recommendations for the short to long-term reorganization and streamlining of DASM.

135. The DASM restructuring study was completed in February 2005. The study
provided a thorough analysis of the current situation for DASM detailing the irrigation
and drainage schemes managed, the numbers of staff, the organizational structure, the
number and condition of maintenance machinery, income and expenditure, an analysis of
water users ability and willingness to pay service fees, an analysis of the internal and
external institutional context, a SWOT analysis, options for change, scenario analyses,
and an Action Plan for the preferred restructuring option.

136. The restructuring study recommended that DASM was restructured as a Legal
Entity under Public Law, allowing it some independence from the Ministry of
Agriculture, with the ability to downsize its staff numbers but increase salaries to the
remaining personnel. The option of privatizing DASM was considered but discounted as
not being viable for the foreseeable future due to the depleted state of the infrastructure,
the inability of a private entity to fund the MOM and capital replacement costs, and
concerns about privatizing a monopoly supplier of I&D water services.

137. In the event, the government decided to dissolve DASM (December 2006) and
hand over the physical assets and the management, operation and maintenance to four
completely new state-owned limited companies (LTDs). When formed (February 2007)
                                             36
each of these companies had only two staff, comprising the government-appointed
Director and an accountant. Subsequently former DASM staff was employed to operate
the irrigation and drainage systems. None of the LTD Directors had any previous
experience in the agricultural sector, let alone in irrigation and drainage.

138. Further support was provided by the project at this stage to fund a study tour for
the LTD Directors to visit irrigation and drainage schemes in Australia and to learn from
the MOM practices there.

(d) Sub-component 2d: Dam Safety Action Program

139. The project did not include rehabilitation of irrigation areas under direct supply
from reservoirs. However, US$255,000 was provided to initiate implementation of a
Dam Safety Action Program, comprising mostly of technical assistance. The intention
was to examine selected dams at risk, and make recommendations on works needed to
improve dam safety.

140. A Dam Safety Panel, comprising national and international staff, was set up early
during the project to carry out a Dam Safety Action Program on four major dams: Algeti,
Sioni, Tbilisi, and Zonkari. Examination reports were prepared for these four dams, and
recommendations made regarding works needed, including additional equipment
(telecommunications and warning systems, monitoring instrumentation, etc.), to improve
dam operation. In the case of Sioni dam, the rehabilitation recommendations have
already been implemented, financed by Government.

(e) Sub-component 2e: Environmental management.

141. A sum of US$136,000 was provided under the project to finance environmental
monitoring of indicators identified during the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA),
prepared in 2001. The project contracted a national consulting company to carry out
environmental monitoring within the four I&D schemes selected for rehabilitation under
the project. The monitoring included sampling water, soil, and sediments within scheme
areas, before and after the irrigation season. Crop samples were also taken after harvest.
The final report concluded that no negative impact has arisen regarding biological and
chemical pollution of the environment. Bacteriological conditions and the extent of
heavy metals remain unchanged, but still exceed permissible levels in some instances,
due to over-use of agrochemicals and lack of waste water treatment facilities. Drainage
works have not adversely protected areas.

(f) Sub-component 2f: Training and study tours.

142. A substantial amount (US$740,000) was allocated for training and study tours
under the project. This training was to comprise: training of trainers; AA promotional
seminars; courses on AA governance and administration, financial management, AA
operation and maintenance; on-the-job training programs; and study tours to countries
with successful AA programs, such as Turkey and the Kyrgyz Republic. The design of
the training program was consistent with successful programs in other countries for
                                            37
establishing water users associations from scratch and leading them through to fully
functioning and sustainable organizations.

143. Training courses were developed by international consultants in Financial
Management, AA Administration, and O&M at on-farm level. A local firm was engaged
in July 2004 to implement the training for the AAs, comprising some 60 training courses
during 2005 through to November 2006. The value of the training contract was 490,000
GEL. The training contract had to be suspended in 2006 following the MoA's refusal to
support AAs, with only about 35 percent of the required training having been completed.

144. In 2006, training was only given by the PTU Seed Money Administrator for 11
AAs in seed money disbursement. No training was carried out in 2007, and very little in
2008 and 2009. The 2008/9 training resulted from a proposal by the World Bank Mission
in May 2007 that the PTU attempt to revitalize the AA support program with additional
training for existing AAs and where LTDs requested training for AAs.19




19
     This additional support and training was proposed by the Mission following meetings with the Deputy
     Minister of Agriculture and the heads of the LTDs, all of whom expressed interest in having well
     functioning AAs to support the LTDs in their service delivery function to water users. Sioni-M was
     the most proactive in this regard.
                                                   38
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

                             A. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1. General

145. Each of the 4 schemes rehabilitated under the project was analyzed in detail at
project appraisal. The calculation of EIRRs and NPVs was re-run at project completion
in April 2009. The analysis is based on the following elements:

-   crop budgets in economic prices;
-   phasing of changes in cropping patterns with and without project and calculation of
    incremental benefits;
-   estimate of foreign exchange balance; and
-   calculation of incremental economic costs and rate of return.


146. Costs of rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of the schemes have been
estimated in economic terms by adjusting the financial values to reflect more closely their
opportunity cost to the economy of Georgia. Actual contract costs in GEL have been
adjusted to allow for taxes (principally VAT and excise duty on fuel) and labor content
has been shadow priced at half of the contractor's costs, which is approximately the same
proportion as originally estimated in the PAD. It should be noted that, with the
exception of pumping costs, only a very general estimate of costs for operation and
maintenance of the schemes was possible. Little has actually been spent on the schemes
but in order not to exaggerate the net benefits costs for O&M have been included,
building up to the same notional level as used in the PAD (GEL 80/ha for irrigation
schemes and GEL 60/ha for drainage schemes in financial terms).

147. Phasing of Costs and Benefits. Costs have been apportioned roughly according
to the time span actually taken to complete rehabilitation works. Changes in cropping
patterns have been taken to occur in the year following rehabilitation works. The
percentage of command areas actually cultivated and irrigated reflects local reports and
information collected during the ICR mission in April 2009, when evidence of the 2008
cropped areas on the drainage schemes was visible and fieldwork was already underway
in the irrigation schemes for the 2009 season.

148. Project Life. There are substantial risks that the irrigation and drainage
infrastructure rehabilitated under the project will again deteriorate because institutions
responsible for their operation and maintenance are manifestly not strong enough to
fulfill this role. Some deterioration has already occurred on the drainage schemes and
this is likely to continue. The project life for drainage schemes has thus been taken as 10
years from completion of rehabilitation and on irrigation schemes 15 years, compared
with the 25 year life used in the PAD.

149. Without Project Scenarios have largely been taken from the PAD but adjusted
proportionately to allow for the actual command areas rehabilitated. Irrigation water

                                            39
supplies were expected to decline due to increasing problems in the distribution and on-
farm networks. For example, on Kvemo Alazani, it was foreseen that the area irrigated
would dwindle from an estimated 30 percent of the command area in 2002 to 20 percent
in 2004 and to only 5 percent (areas closest to the main canal) by 2009. On Tashiskari,
the tunnel was in imminent danger of collapse, which would have immediately reduced
6,400 ha of the area fed from the main canal to rain fed production. In the drainage
schemes (Khobi/Choloki), the areas producing crops would decline from 55/67 percent to
25/30 percent over 5 years.

2. Kvemo Alazani

150. The Kvemo Alazani scheme consists of a single main canal leading from
headworks on the Alazani River for about 90 km through the districts of Telavi, Gurjaani,
Tsignagi, and Dedoplis Tskaro. The design irrigation area was originally well over
30,000 ha, but currently the potential command area is considered to be some 22,000 ha.
The area rehabilitated is said to be about 8,700 ha, supplied from the first 40 km of the
main canal in Gurjaani District, but the total net area of the 10 AAs with on-farm
rehabilitation is 7,933 ha. This is still larger than the expected irrigated area at appraisal
(7,000 ha). In addition, the lower half of the main canal has been cleaned, improving
delivery of water to the tail of the system.

151. Rehabilitation of the headworks and the main and secondary canals together with
additional works (cleaning of the tail half of the main canal, cross drainage) and flood
repairs at the headworks have resulted in project investments more than double the costs
estimated at appraisal (just under GEL 20 million as against GEL 9 million at appraisal).
Investments in the tertiary/on-farm rehabilitation and AA establishment through seed
money have been GEL 1.1 million.

152. Before the project, only about 30 percent of the area was irrigated and water
supply to the command area was restricted. With project, the total area irrigated appears
to be very similar to that before the project. Benefits from the project rehabilitation of
irrigation on the Kvemo Alazani scheme are therefore based on just 30 percent of the
command area or 2,400 ha. Crops which are increasingly cultivated and irrigated are
maize, peaches, vegetables (especially cucumber), and water melons. These crops
benefit from greater and more reliable supplies of irrigation water.

153. There is more demand for irrigation water at the tail where the climate is drier and
irrigation more essential for crop production. There, cleaning works will ensure that
water will now flow freely in the main canal, but there is as yet no program for
rehabilitation of the on-farm networks and this will limit the impact of the improvements
made under the project. The benefits of the project in this lower end of the command
area are taken to be 20 percent of those from the rehabilitated area. The economic
internal rate of return from rehabilitation of this scheme is 27 percent. The rate of return
depends largely on the value attributed to fruit, grapes, vegetables, and melons. Prices
for all have increased very much since the time of the PAD. The PAD also took rather
conservative price valuations. The sources of the increased value of production are
analyzed below.

                                             40
                                 Yields and Prices
Crop                   PAD partial irrigated  PAD                       ICR      fully        irrigated
                               T             GEL/ton                       t    GEL/ton       US$/ton
Wheat/barley                 2.20              310                      3.50      310            186
Maize                        2.60              120                      4.00      400            240
Fruits (peaches)              6.00               -                      8.00      500            299
Vegetables                   9.00              150                     14.00      400            240
Water Melons                 20.00              50                     30.00      200            120
Vineyards                    4.50              250                      6.00      400            240


                         % change                                  % share of value
                      Yield      Price       Value                 at full development
Wheat/barley           59%        0%          59%                            3%
Maize                  54%      233%         413%                           10%
Fruits                 33%           -                                      35%
Vegetables             56%      167%         315%                           20%
Water Melons           50%      300%         500%                           17%
Vineyards              33%       60%         113%                           15%

3. Tashiskari

154. The Tashiskari scheme was designed to serve some 11,000 ha supplied from two
canals: the main canal of some 56 km (including a 3.2 km tunnel section at Khashuri and
a number of siphons/galleries) and a large secondary canaletti canal B-1 which branches
off before the tunnel. The B-1 serves an area of about 850 ha in Khashuri District. The
whole scheme covers areas of Khashuri and Kareli Districts with an estimated current
command of about 8,000 ha. Climatic conditions vary markedly in different parts of the
command. Khashuri tends to be colder and Kareli warmer and drier.

155. Rehabilitation of this scheme comprised repairs to the Khashuri tunnel which was
in imminent danger of collapse; works on the main canal; and rehabilitation of secondary
and on-farm network supplied from the main canal. The flow through the tunnel has
been restored to 9 cumecs which assures ample water to the area beyond it. The flow in
B-1 has been restored to 2.5 cumecs which would be sufficient, in future, to supply areas
downstream. Originally it was not planned to fully rehabilitate the tail end (10 km) of the
main canal downstream of the Breti siphon. It is actually this area of the command which
has the greatest demand for irrigation water and the Breti, along with the Shaqshaveti
siphon, was rehabilitated as part of the re-sizing of the project after 2005.

156. Total rehabilitation costs (including additional works for the Breti and
Shaqshaveti siphons) have been 60 percent higher than those estimated at appraisal (GEL
19 million as against GEL 12 million). A slightly larger command area has been
rehabilitated than envisaged at appraisal (7,900 ha as against 7,500 ha) and the average
cost per ha has been GEL 2,429.

                                            41
157. The expected irrigated area is taken as 3,400 ha (an average of 43 percent of the
total command rehabilitated). In 2007, the irrigated area fell sharply as a result of actions
by the Mtkvari LTD to block water deliveries. This has been reflected in the cropping
pattern model. The rate of return is 21 percent over a 15 year period.

4. Rioni Khobi ­ Chaladidi

158. This scheme is very low-lying with a high groundwater table. It lies immediately
south of the Abasha-Poti road, close to Poti. The area that benefitted from rehabilitation
of the drainage system is 2,107 ha.

159. After rehabilitation the arable areas are fully used. Yields of maize have
increased markedly (farmers report an average of 3.5 t/ha after rehabilitation) compared
with around 2 t/ha before rehabilitation.

160. The economic internal rate of return from rehabilitation of this scheme is 39
percent.

5. Rioni Choloki ­ Lanchkuti

161. The project rehabilitation comprised gravity drainage only. The total net area of 5
participating AAs was 2,219 ha. Land on the rehabilitated area is being used intensively.
Farmers themselves state that they are able to plant 50 percent more area. Yields have
also increased markedly and maize is intercropped with beans, soya and some vegetables.
Here, too, however, there has been no advance in earlier land preparation or planting, and
maize harvest stretches on into October and November. The same varieties are planted as
previously. Only nitrogen fertilizer is generally applied. Some farmers have tried hybrid
maize but have not been able to achieve higher yields thereby. In short, techniques
appear not to have changed and there has been no material diversification from maize,
probably because prices have risen markedly and it remains the most securely profitable
crop. The with-project yield has therefore been taken to be 3.5 t/ha as compared with 2
t/ha without project.

162. The economic internal rate of return from rehabilitation of this scheme is 40
percent.

6. Economic Evaluation of Project

163. This section uses parts of the foregoing analysis to include areas covered under
the national program and compute an overall rate of return. The national program
provided seed money for establishment and on-farm rehabilitation of 15 AAs covering
about 9,500 ha. Ten were in irrigation areas and five in drainage areas. Incremental
returns from the improvements have been estimated on the basis of the economic crop
budgets and current cropping patterns in the fully rehabilitated schemes. They are taken
to be an average of GEL 200/ha/year. Incremental O&M costs for the distribution and
on-farm networks are estimated at GEL 20/ha/year, giving an overall net incremental
benefit of GEL 180/ha/year. Costs of the AA support are estimated at GEL 3 million in
economic terms and those for on-farm works and establishment of AAs under the
                                             42
national program are estimated as GEL 1.24 million. The overall rate of return for the
project's original elements, excluding the activities under the additional financing, is 20
percent.


                              B. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

1. Returns to Typical Farmers

164. Land holdings of 0.8 ha and 0.5 ha in Kvemo Alazani and 1.2 ha and 0.5 ha in
Tashiskari have been used to represent typical irrigated farms. For the drainage schemes
1.0 ha is taken for Chaladidi and 0.5 ha for Lanchkuti. Incremental returns over the
without project situation are summarized below.

Farm Model                    Total area       Incremental net revenue (GEL/year)
                                (ha)          WiP ­ Rainfed WiP ­ Part Irrigation
Kvemo Alazani A                  0.8              1022                 617
Kvemo Alazani B                  0.5               709                 444
Tashiskari A                     1.2               780                 430
Tashiskari B                     0.5               340                  92
                                                With Drainage- Without Drainage
Rioni Khobi ­Chaladidi            1.0                          624
Rioni Choloki ­Lanchkuti          0.5                          363


165. The net revenues include all costs of production including some paid labor for
harvest (in the case of vegetables, potatoes, vines and fruits) as detailed in the budget
files.

166. The net revenues from the smaller holdings are insufficient to assure minimum
living standards for a family. Total net revenues from irrigated land with project and net
of AA, irrigation or drainage charges have been estimated as follows:




  Farm Model                     Total area     Average Irrigation     Total net revenue
                                                  Requirement
                                    (ha)            (000 m3)              (GEL/year)
  Kvemo Alazani A                    0.8               0.9                  1679
  Kvemo Alazani B                    0.5               0.6                  1211
  Tashiskari A                       1.2               3.8                  1138
  Tashiskari B                       0.5               1.9                   486
  Rioni Khobi ­Chaladidi             1.0                -                   1090
  Rioni Choloki ­Lanchkuti           0.5                -                    461


                                              43
167. Most families supplement production from their irrigated plot by keeping
livestock (poultry, pigs, or cattle) especially in the drainage areas where cattle are
allowed to graze the arable area after harvest until the beginning of the following season.

168. As the table below indicates, the membership charges of AAs (assumed to be
GEL 5/ha) and payments to LTDs (equivalent to GEL75/ha/year) amount to a moderate
proportion of the incremental and total returns from the rehabilitation and seed money to
be provided by the project. On irrigated areas, the total charges payable (to LTDs and
AAs) are somewhat higher than those which were expected at appraisal, whereas those in
drainage areas are lower. However, they add significantly to cash costs faced by farmers.
As indicated above, currently farmers consume most of what they produce and have to
limit cash outlays.

                                                Total Irrigation/          As % of
    Farm Model                   Total area    Drainage Charges      Incremental (Total)
                                                                        Net Revenue
                                    (ha)           (GEL/year)            (GEL/year)
    Kvemo Alazani A                  0.8              64                   6% (4%)
    Kvemo Alazani B                  0.5              41                   5% (3%)
    Tashiskari A                     1.2              96                  14% (8%)
    Tashiskari B                     0.5              41                  12% (8%)
    Rioni Khobi ­Chaladidi           1.0              25                   4% (2%)
    Rioni Choloki ­Lanchkuti         0.5              13                   3% (2%)

2. AA Finances

169. At appraisal, models of AA finances were developed to assess the options for
raising funds to support their staffing, operating and maintenance costs. It was envisaged
that:

-   both members and non-members would pay charges for water/drainage;
-   membership fees would be levied at a flat rate per ha;
-   irrigation water charges would be levied partly on a flat rate per ha and partly on a
    charge per irrigation or per 1,000 m3;
-   non-members would be charged for water/drainage at about double the rate of
    members ­ the limit specified by law; and
-   fees would be set at a rate which would cover expected outgoings of the AA.

170. It appears that the detailed Development Plans drawn up for AAs undergoing
rehabilitation did not incorporate any variable/volumetric element to the AA fee
structure, relying on flat rate membership fees. As it happened, wholesale water fees
were also switched to a flat rate charge when LTDs took over O&M of irrigation
nationwide.

171. AAs have failed to raise sufficient money to cover even basic salary and operating
costs or to pay wholesale water fees to LTD. Most of the AAs surveyed managed to
collect between GEL 0 and GEL 1/ha on average in membership fees. They have been
paying salaries and other costs mainly from the seed money tranches which have been
                                           44
spread over several years (rather than the one year that was originally planned).
Membership charges would need to increase very much for the AAs to be able to meet
their costs.




                                         45
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
           Names                         Title               Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Lynette Alemar            Senior Program Assistant         ECSSD     Task team support
Timothy Robert Jackson    Consultant                       ECSSD     Engineering
Sam H. Johnson            Consultant                       SASDA     AA Development
Darejan Kapanadze         Environmental Specialist         ECSSD     Environment
                                                                     Institutional
Ilia Kvitaishvili         Rural Development Specialist     ECSSD
                                                                     development
Norval Stanley Peabody    Consultant                        QAG      Social
Karl Skansing             Consultant                       ECSPS     Procurement
Hiwote Tadesse            Senior Program Assistant         ECSSD     Task team support
                                                                     Financial
Arman Vatyan              Sr Financial Management Specialist ECSPS
                                                                     management
Yingwei Wu                Senior Procurement Specialist     ECSPS    Procurement
                          Monitoring and Evaluation
Martin Burton                                              ECSSD M&E
                          Specialist
                                                                 Task team
Joop Stoutjesdijk         Lead Irrigation Engineer (TTL)   ECSSD leadership and
                                                                 engineering


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                 385.73
  FY99                                                                 226.04
  FY00                                         20                      177.53
  FY01                                         39                      220.35
  FY02                                                                   0.11
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
  FY08                                                                   0.00

                                          46
                  Total:        59   1009.76
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                  0.00
  FY99                                  0.00
  FY00                                  0.00
  FY01                                  0.00
  FY02                       17        92.52
  FY03                       19        91.37
  FY04                       24        93.65
  FY05                       23       157.11
  FY06                       24       109.14
  FY07                       15        97.23
  FY08                       15        37.43
  FY09                        8         0.00
                  Total:    145       678.45




                           47
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


172. A socio-economic impact survey was carried out in February/March 2009 by the
Institute of Polling and Marketing (IPM). The survey was carried out on the Kvemo
Alazani and Tashiskari Irrigation Schemes, the Rioni-Choloki and Rioni-Khobi Drainage
Schemes and National Program AAs. The survey covered 35 of the 43 AAs where
rehabilitation work had been completed and interviewed 735 people, including AA
personnel and water users.

173. Key indicators that were reviewed included (information on yields is given in
Annex 3):

   ·   Water fee collection rates (measured in percentage);
   ·   Financial management of AAs satisfactory as determined by auditors and
       Regulatory Office (measured in number of AAs);
   ·   Timely maintenance of irrigation and drainage infrastructure (measured in ha
       where this is achieved).

174. Water fee collection rates. Water fee levels are very low, but even then the
collection rates are generally low as well. Table 11 shows the planned and actual fee
collection for all irrigation and drainage systems in each LTD region. The data show
that the actual collected income from service fees is relatively good for Sioni-M, low for
Alazani-M and Mtkvari-M, while Kolkheti-M has been unable to collect any fees. The
figure for Kolkheti-M reflects the general experience that fee collection for provision of
drainage services is often difficult. In this case a land tax would be a sensible option,
levied on all those resident in the drained areas. Money collected would then be used for
the MOM of the drainage system.

175.

176. Table 12 shows the fee collection for the rehabilitated irrigation and drainage
schemes, and shows a reasonable percentage of the planned fee recovery rate for
Mtkvari-M in 2007, though the area that it is collected from (1,126 ha) is only 15 percent
of the scheme area of 7,500 ha. Nothing was collected by Mtkvari-M in 2008 due to an
announcement at election time by the regional governor that water users did not have to
pay the irrigation service fee. In some cases this also meant that AA members felt that
they did not need to pay their membership fees either. Alazani-M has a low recovery rate
for both years, and Kolkheti-M shows no fee recovery.

177. Table 13 shows the income and expenditure for the LTDs together with the
balance and cash flow. In all cases the balance is negative, with large debts outstanding
for property tax. The best performing LTD is Sioni-M which has relatively good ISF
recovery rates and a positive cash flow. Mtkvari-M appears to have a reasonable cash
flow. Alazani-M and Kolkheti-M are in serious financial difficulty.




                                            48
Table 11: Irrigation and Drainage Service Fees Planned and Collected from all AAs, 2007-2009
LTD              Total service             2007                    2008               2009
                      area         Plan     Actual   %     Plan      Actual     %     Plan
                      (ha)        (GEL)     (GEL)         (GEL)      (GEL)           (GEL)
Alazani-M                60,203   590,000     7,500 1.3%  470, 000     14,275    3.0  520,000
Sioni-M                 103,889 1,200,000 896,031 75% 1,500,000     898,149    60% 1,500,000
Mtkvari-M                89,651   399,868 136,815 34%      805,055    197,300 25% 1,042,715
Kolkheti-M        16,800 (irrig.)        -      678     -        -          92     -  202,500
                 46,200 (drain.)
Source: LTD records, April 2009.




Table 12: Irrigation and Drainage Service Fees Planned and Collected by Scheme, 2007-2008
Scheme          LTD            Total      Project               2007                        2008               2009
                               scheme     area         Plan      Actual     %        Plan     Actual    %      Plan
                               area       (ha)        (GEL)      (GEL)              (GEL)     (GEL)           (GEL)
                               (ha)
Tashiskari     Mtkvari-M      1,1261       7,500       84,4331 61,0991 72%1         133,123          - 0% 225,000
Irrigation
Scheme
Kvemo          Alazani-M 22,252            8,550      350, 000     6,000 1.3       258, 000     9,447 3.7       350,000
Alazani
Irrigation
Scheme
Rioni Khobi    Kolkheti-M                  1,700        20,000         0     0       20,000         0 0          13,500
Drainage
Scheme
Rioni          Kolkheti-M                  2,030        20,000         0     0       20,000         0 0          20,000
Choloki
Drainage
Scheme
Notes:
1. These data refer to the area from which service fees were collected, and represent only 15 percent of the scheme
      area.
Source: LTD records, April 2009




                                                         49
Table 13: LTD income, expenditure and liabilities, 2007-2008
Activity                                                           Alazani-M                  Mtkvari-M                     Sioni-M                   Kolkheti-M
                                                                2007        2008          2007          2008         2007              2008         2007          2008
                                                              Amount       Amount        Amount       Amount        Amount            Amount       Amount        Amount
                                                              (GEL)        (GEL)         (GEL)        (GEL)         (GEL)             (GEL)        (GEL)         (GEL)
INCOME
Service fees from AAs and other users (Total)                    43,000      139,300       152,004        260,465     896,031           898,149      172,526       530,076
(a) From AAs                                                     22,000        14,300      136,815        197,300     390,307           365,496            678       6,556
(b) From other irrigation/drainage water users                        0            0             0              0     316,042           454,341            0             0
(c) From other water users (hydro-power, factories, potable      21,000      125,000        15,189         63,165     189,682            48,312      171,848       523,520
water, etc.)
Credit from budget (to repay)                                   500,000      200,000       500,000        550,000     500,000           250,000      500,000              0
Subsidies (not to be repaid)                                           0     200,000              0       350,000             0         350,000              0     100,000
EXPENDITURE
Depreciation                                                  5,800,000    4,400,000     5,059,410     4,655,235     8,238,669         5,724,896   1,112,224     1,329,448
Property tax                                                    833,000      994,000        750587        844,659    1,311,426         1,185,998     392,962       451,838
Total operating costs, of which:                                386,500      426,500       297,285        531,616     493,013           600,330      279,579       424,581
- Staff costs                                                   364,000      388,000       267,919        392,868     434,104           556,570      172,153       278,774
- Operation costs (electricity for pumping, etc.)                22,500        38,500       29,366        138,748      58,909            43,760      107,426       145,807
Maintenance costs                                               320,500        98,500      126,370         90,918     297,477           404,352      123,801       429,628
Repayments                                                       82,000      120,000         4,166          7,931             0                0             0            0
BALANCE SHEET
Annual operating income minus expenditure                      -664,000     -385,700      -271,651      -362,069      105,541          -106,533     -230,854      -324,133
Loans outstanding                                              -418,000      -80,000      -495,834      -542,069      -500,000         -250,000     -500,000              0
Depreciation                                                  -5,800,000   -4,400,000    -5,059,410    -4,655,235   -8,238,669        -5,724,896   -1,112,224    -1,329,448
Property tax                                                   -833,000     -994,000      -750,587      -844,659    -1,311,426        -1,185,998    -392,962      -451,838
Total balance                                                 -7,715,000   -5,859,700    -6,577,482    -6,404,032   -9,944,554        -7,267,427   -2,236,040    -2,105,419
Cumulative balance                                            -7,715,000 -13,574,700     -6,577,482   -12,981,514   -9,944,554    -17,211,981      -2,236,040    -4,341,459
Cashflow                                                        -246,000    -105,700        224,183       530,000      605,541        493,467         269,146      -224,133
Source: LTD records, April 2009.




                                                                                    50
178. The state of AA membership fees can be used as a proxy for assessing the quality
and reliability of AA management. Table 14 and Figure 2 summarize the state of the AA
membership fee collection, with a gradual decline of the membership fee collection rate
over the period 2005-2008, from 36 percent down to 18 percent for Alazani-M AAs, from
73 percent down to 36 percent for Sioni-M AAs, from 42 percent down to 6 percent for
Mtkvari-M AAs, and down from 16 percent to 2 percent for Kolkheti-M AAs. These
declining AA membership fees coincide with the institutional changes made by the MOA
in 2006.

Table 14: AA Membership Fees Planned and Collected (in GEL) from Members, 2005-2008

    LTD               2005                  2006                 2007                2008

             Plann. Coll.     %     Plann. Coll.    %    Plann. Coll.   %    Plann. Coll.   %
Alazani-M
               4750    1698   36%    7990   1519    19% 11525    2361   20% 13950    2518   18%
Sioni-M
               7718    5610   73%    6840   5424    79% 32625 16682     51% 39790 14382     36%
Mtkvari-M
              28501 11951     42% 37786     9738    26% 55270 19242     35% 67400    4330    6%
Kolkheti-M   16282    2563    16%   18032 4545     25%   19462   528    3%   20252   400    2%



179. Converting the data in Table 14 to membership fees per unit area (Table 15)
shows the generally low level of membership fee collection. As can be seen from Table
15 the average planned membership fee per unit area has been increasing over the period
2005-2008, and ranges from GEL 0.51/ha (US$0.31/ha) to GEL 12.05/ha (US$7.3/ha).
The average actual collected membership fee has varied, in Alazani-M there is a small
increase, but from a very low base, in Sioni-M a large increase, and in Mtkvari-M and
Kolkheti-M the membership fee collected has declined. In all cases the average
membership fee collected is very low, and insufficient to cover the costs of the AA staff
and a base load of maintenance work. This fee collection is well below the MOM
estimates in the PAD of US$35/ha/year in irrigation command areas and US$27/ha/year
in drainage command areas.




                                                   51
           Table 15: Average planned membership fees per unit area for project AAs

                                            2005            2006      2007       2008
                         LTD
                                                   Membership fee (GEL/ha)
                     (a) Planned

                     Alazani-M
                                      0.51           0.85          1.23      1.49
                     Sioni-M
                                      2.34           2.07          9.88      12.05
                     Mtkvari-M
                                      2.58           3.42          5.01      6.11
                     Kolkheti-M       2.89           3.20          3.46      3.60

                     (b) Actual collected

                     Alazani-M
                                      0.18           0.16          0.25      0.27
                     Sioni-M
                                      1.70           1.64          5.05      4.35
                     Mtkvari-M
                                      1.08           0.88          1.74      0.39
                     Kolkheti-M       0.46           0.81          0.09      0.07




180. Satisfactory financial management of AAs. Information gathered at the start of
2009 by the PTU on the holding of AGMs and setting of budgets for the project AAs
shows that of the 44 project AAs, 37 AAs have prepared their budgets, held the AGM
and approved the budget for 2009. During the ICR Mission several AAs were visited
where the 2009 budgets were in evidence in the AA offices. This is an encouraging sign,
and evidence that with support from the AA Support team the AA were continuing to
function to some degree.

181. Timely maintenance of I&D infrastructure. There is limited maintenance work
being carried out in the project AAs. In some cases the data reported in the impact
survey on maintenance work carried by the AAs is in fact rehabilitation works under the
project.




                                                      52
Figure 2: Average AA membership fees in project AAs by LTD region, 2005-2008

(a) Alazani-M (13 AAs)                                                                               (b) Sioni-M (3 AAs)

        LTD              2005                2006           2007    2008                                      LTD                    2005   2006    2007    2008
Planned                                                                                              Planned
                         4750                7990           11525   13950                                                            7718   6840    32625   39790
Collected                                                                                            Collected
                         1698                1519           2361    2518                                                             5610   5424    16682   14382
%                         36%                19%            20%     18%                              %                                73%   79%     51%     36%

(i) Scheme - Kvemo Alezani Irrigation Scheme (10 No. AAs)                                            (i) National Program - Scheme Irrigation (2 No. AAs)

(ii) National Program - Local Irrigation (3 No. AAs)                                                 (ii) National Program - Local Irrigation (1 No. AA)



(c) Mtkvari-M (14 AAs)                                                                               (d) Kolkheti-M (13 AAs)

        LTD              2005                2006           2007    2008                                      LTD                    2005   2006    2007    2008
Planned                                                                                              Planned
                       28501                37786           55270   67400                                                           16282   18032   19462   20252
Collected              11951                9738.16         19242   4330                             Collected                       2563   4545    528      400
%                         42%                26%            35%      6%                              %                                16%   25%      3%      2%

(i) Scheme - Tashiskari Irrigation Scheme (10 No. AAs)                                               (i) Scheme - Rioni-Choloki Drainage Scheme (6 No. AAs)

(i) National Program - Scheme Irrigation (2 No. AAs)                                                 (i) Scheme - Rioni-Khobi Drainage Scheme (4 No. AAs)

(ii) National Program - Local Irrigation (2 No. AAs)                                                 (i) National Program - Scheme Drainage (2 No. AAs)

                                                                                                     (ii) National Program - Local Drainage (1 No. AAs)

                AA membership fees, 2005-2008                                                   AA membership fees, 2005-2008
                    - Alazani-M (13 AAs)                                                             - Sioni-M (3 AAs)
25000                                                                            45000
                                                                                 40000
20000                                                                            35000
                                                                                 30000
15000
                                                                                 25000
                                                                                 20000
10000
                                                                                 15000
 5000                                                                            10000
                                                                                  5000
    0                                                                                0
         2005           2006         2007            2008                                2005          2006         2007            2008

                    Planned     Collected       %                                                   Planned     Collected       %




                AA membership fees, 2005-2008                                                   AA membership fees, 2005-2008
                   - Mtkvari - M (14AAs)                                                            - Kolkheti- M (14AAs)
70000                                                                            25000

60000
                                                                                 20000
50000
                                                                                 15000
40000
30000                                                                            10000
20000
                                                                                 5000
10000
    0                                                                               0
         2005          2006         2007            2008                                 2005          2006         2007            2008


                    Planned     Collected       %                                                  Planned      Collected       %




                                                                            53
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

182.   There was no end-of-project stakeholder workshop.




                                         54
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                  55
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

183.   Not applicable, as there were no cofinanciers.




                                           56
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
GEBMA, 2008. Final Report for Environmental Monitoring of the Areas Envisaged for
Rehabilitation. Georgian Environmental and Biological Monitoring Association.
IDCDP, 2001. Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Irrigation and Drainage Community
Development Project.
IDCDP, 2004. Participatory Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation of AAs in Georgia.
Report by Pari Baumann (Social Scientist).
IDCDP, 2004. AA Operational Manual, 2004 revision. Irrigation and Drainage
Community Development Project,
IDCDP, 2005. Institutional study for the medium and long-term structural and functional
reorganization of the Department of Amelioration Scheme Management (DASM), Final
Report. Report by Martin Burton (Institutional Development Specialist).
IDCDP, 2009. Implementation Completion Report, Irrigation and Drainage Community
Development Project. Irrigation Unit of the MDF.
Jacobs, 2006. Review/Supervision of Detailed Engineering Designs for Rehabilitation of
Sioni and Algeti Dams. Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project,
Jacobs UK Ltd.
MOA, 2008. Agricultural Development Strategy, 2009-2011. Ministry of Agriculture.
MOA, 2009. Mid-term Action Plan (2010-2013). Ministry of Agriculture.
Svendsen, 2004. Developing and Managing Water for Agriculture in Georgia. Report by
Mark Svendsen, USAID funded AgVantage Project.
TACIS, 2001. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). TACIS report for the Irrigation
and Drainage Community Development Project.
World Bank, 2001. Project Appraisal Document. Irrigation and Drainage Community
Development Project.
World Bank, 2001-2009. Implementation Review Mission Aide Memoires. Irrigation
and Drainage Community Development Project.
World Bank, 2001-2009. Implementation Status and Results Reports. Irrigation and
Drainage Community Development Project.
World Bank, 2005. Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Financing, and Addendum to
Project Paper.




                                          57
58
