Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFlCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13767
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
POWER IV PROJECT
(CREDIT 1788-SU)
DECEMBER 6, 1994
Energy and Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB                        African Development Bank
ERR                         Economic Rate of Return
FY                          Fiscal Year
IDA                         International Development Association
kW                          Kilo Watt
kV                          Kilo Volt
MW                          Mega Watt
MWh                         Mega Watt Hour
NEA                         National Energy Administration
NEC                         National Electricity Corporation
SDR                         Standard Drawing Rights
SAR                         Staff Appraisal Report
UN                          The United Nations
USAID                       United States Agency for International
Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
EXCHANGE RATES
Pounds (LS) per US$
Appraisal Estimate:                             2.50
Actual (yearly average)
1987:                                          2.81
1988-1990:                                     4.50
1991:                                          5.43
1992:                                         69.44
1993:                                         161.29
Pounds per SDR (end of year)
1987:                                          6.39
1988:                                          6.06
1989:                                          5.91
1990:                                          6.40
1991:                                         21.46
1992:                                         185.19
1993:                                        303.03
US$ per SDR (yearly average)
1987:                                           1.2931
1989:                                           1.2818
1991:                                           1.3682
1993:                                           1.3963



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 6, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Sudan
Power IV Proiect (Credit 1788-SU)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Sudan - Power IV Project (Credit 1788-
SU) prepared by the Africa Region. The Borrower did not contribute to the PCR.
The project objectives were to meet the increase in demand for electricity, to strengthen
the National Electricity Corporation, NEC, in the areas of management, finance and planning, and to
help the National Energy Administration, NEA, to improve energy planning and policy formulation.
The physical objectives were met (albeit with a two-year delay) by installing 120 MW
of oil-fuelled generating capacity at the Khartoum North power station. The project's rate of return was
not calculated but the generation cost appears acceptable although on the high side. However, the
project did not succeed in improving the management and financial performance of NEC. Government
interference delayed electricity tariff adjustments and those were quickly eroded by cost increases due
to high inflation and devaluation of the Sudanese currency. Arrears amounting to one year of NEC's
billiig remains a chronic problem. The ratio of NEC's customers to employees continues to be very
low. Training and studies made little impact on NEC and NEA performance.
The project cost estimated at US$105 million was financed by IDA (40 percent), the
African Development Bank (52 percent), and the Borrower (8 percent). The appreciation of the SDR
relative to the US dollar during project implementation helped to finance part of the 18 percent cost
overrun. The credit was fully disbursed and closed in June 1993.
The project outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory mainly by virtue of its physical
accomplishment. Its institutional development impact is rated as negligible and its sustainability as
uncertaini as long as Government interference impedes NEC cost recovery and autonomy.
The PCR contains a satisfactory account of project implementation and results.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanco of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
POWER IV PROJECT
Cr. 1788-SU
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE           .............................................. i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  i..
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ..
1 Project Identity .1
2 Project Background .......................................1
3 Project Design and Organization  .............   2
4 Project Objectives and Description  ...............   3
5 Project Implementation .............  4
6 Project Results ...............  6
7 Project Sustainability   ...............   8
8 Association Performance  ...............   8
9 Beneficiary's Performance  ...............   8
10 Project Relationship .............  9
11 Consulting Services' and Contractors' Performance  ............ ...  9
12 Procurement ............. 9
13 Disbursement  ...........           ..............................  10
14 Audits .      .............................................   10
15 Project Documentation and Data ..............................  10
16 Findings and Lessons Learned  ...............................  10
PART II. PROJECT EVALUATION FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  11
PART III. STATISTICAL AND OTHER PROJECT INFORMATION   ... ......  12
1 Related Bank Group Loans/Credits .............................  12
2 Project Timetable ..................  12
3 Credit Disbursements  .....................................   13
4 Project Cost and Financing ..................................  14
5 Use of the Association Resources ..............................  15
6 Project Implementation Schedule ..............................  17
7 Status of Compliance with Major Covenants  .......................  18
8 Comparative Balance Sheets (FY87 - FY92)  .......................  21
9 Comparative Income Statements (FY87 - FY92) .....................  22
10 Comparison of NEC's Selected Performance Indicators (FY87 - FY92)  ..... 23
11 Major Contracts Signed  ...................................  23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






-i-
SUDAN
POWER IV PROJECT
Cr. 1788-SU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Power IV Project (Cr. 1788-SU) in
the Sudan. Total credit amount was SDR 30.1 million. The Credit was approved on May 5,
1987, became effective on March 7, 1988, and was closed on June 30, 1993, after allowing for a
one year extension. Disbursements continued until November 2, 1993, when the balance of SDR
48.17 was cancelled.
Parts I and mI of this PCR were prepared by staff from the Energy and Infrastructure
Operations Division of the Eastern Africa Department. During the final supervision mission in
November 1992, the Borrower was requested to prepare Part II and submit final project cost
estimates to IDA. As of May 1994, IDA had not received the Borrower's contribution.
This PCR is based, inter alia, on information available in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), the Memorandum of the President, the Development Credit and Project Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.






-ii-
SUDAN
POWER IV PROJECT (Cr. 1788-SU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    The original Power IV project, which included the major power sub-sector related
investments in the period 1985-1990, was appraised in July 1983. Due to the difficult economic
situation in Sudan and particularly arrears problems with key donors, it was difficult to obtain the
required concessional financing for the large project. The original Power IV Project was
therefore split into two in 1984: (i) the Power Rehabilitation Project; and (ii) the reduced Power
IV Project. The Power Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1624-SU) was processed as an interim
operation to assist in financing the most urgent needs such as the rehabilitation of existing
generation, transmission and distribution facilities and commissioning of urgently needed new
generation capacity. The reduced Power IV Project financed most of the remaining items of the
National Electricity Corporation's (NEC) investment program not included in the Power
Rehabilitation Project. A separate PCR is issued for the Power Rehabilitation Project.
Objectives
1.    The three main objectives of the project were to: (i) provide generation capacity to meet
projected demand in the interconnected Blue Nile and Eastern Grid areas by 1991; (ii) strengthen
the National Electricity Corporation (NEC) in attaining sustained institutional improvements
thereby meeting its corporate objectives, particularly in the areas of management, finance and
power expansion planning; and (iii) to help the Government, through the National Energy
Administration (NEA), to improve energy planning and policy formulation.
Implementation Experience
2.    The physical components of the project, which consisted of the installation of two oil-
fulled steam generating units at the Khartoum North power station, were implemented by NEC
through a Project Implementation Unit headed by a Project Manager reporting directly to the
General Manager. International consulting engineers were appointed to assist NEC to prepare
bidding documents, evaluate bids, prepare contracts, and to carry out site supervision at the
Khartoum North power station. The consultants selected had previously helped NEC to
implement a similar power plant under the Power 11 Project and were thus familiar with the
situation in Sudan. The presence of the consulting engineers increased NEC's project
implementation capacity. Nevertheless, the commissioning of the physical components was
delayed by about two years. The main reason was the delayed supply of electrical equipment by
the Serbian (formerly Yugoslavian) contractor. Due to the civil war in Yugoslavia, the contractor
had been forced to postpone the manufacture of the electrical cables. Since this component was
financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB), the problem was further exacerbated by
AfDB's inability to facilitate disbursements due to the UN sanctions on Yugoslavia. Because the
electrical cables were a critical element for further construction, both the civil works, and the
commissioning of boilers and turbines had to be postponed. Additional reasons for delays were



-iii-
late payment by NEC of contractors' claims resulting in cash-flow problems, and the difficulties
the contractors encountered in getting equipment released at Port Sudan.
3.    The implementation of the institutional strengthening components comprising technical
assistance for improving NEC's management, financial and billing functions and staff
development was carried out by engaging consultants and providing overseas training for NEC
staff. The consultants selected to assist NEC had developed a program for improving the
institutional and manpower performance of NEC under a contract financed from the Power III
Project. The consultants worked with NEC to develop a management information system, and
better and more accurate reporting methods. Originally it was also planned to hire an
international professional accountant to assist NEC, but this plan was abandoned when it became
clear that it would not be possible to recruit a suitable individual. Instead, it was decided to use
the consultants already working with NEC to provide the required support. The institutional
strengthening also included training of plant operators by the contractors both in Europe and at
site. Although this training enhanced the capabilities of the staff, it was felt that the participants
were generally too junior on their jobs to benefit substantially from it.
4.    Due to shortage of funds, the two planning studies, namely the Environmental Study to
review the present and planned thermal generation in the Khartoum area, and the Study of Load
Characteristics and Patterns of Consumption by consumer category and analysis of technical and
non-technical losses were not carried out. Instead, in agreement with IDA, NEC commissioned a
study on the feasibility of installing an additional generating unit at the Khartoum North power
station, including an assessment of possible environmental consequences.
5.    Under the technical assistance component international consultants assisted NEA to
strengthen its capabilities in carrying out national energy planning activities, particularly in the
areas of updating the national energy plan, demand forecasting, energy conservation in the
transport sector, and review of development alternatives in the renewable, petroleum and power
sub-sectors. NEA staff also attended international training courses. Due to some initial delays
and a brief interruption caused by the Gulf War, the scope of the technical assistance component
was reduced slightly.
6.    IDA made generally one to two supervision missions per year except in 1991 when no
missions took place due to the reduction of IDA resources for project supervision in Sudan. The
project was implemented over six years as against the appraisal estimate of five years.
Results
7.    Tchnical. The project achieved its technical objective which was to increase the installed
steam generating capacity at the Khartoum North power station by 120 MW. The commissioning
of the two 60 MW generating units was however delayed by two years.
8.    Institutional. The institutional and financial objectives of the Project were not fully
achieved. NEC's financial performance remained weak and it did not comply with the rate of
return covenant or the accounts receivable covenant. Although NEC managed to reverse the very
unsatisfactory financial performance in FY89, it was not able to meet the objectives agreed during
negotiations. NEC achieved partial success in improving its financial performance through tariff
increases. The implementation of the tariff increases was, however, delayed due to the
Government's unwillingness to raise tariffs, and as a result, the adjustments came too late to
substantially improve NEC's financial position. Furthermore, the tariff increases did not keep



- iv-
pace with cost increases due to high inflation and the devaluation of the Sudanese currency. The
very unsatisfactory accounts receivable position weakened NEC's financial situation further.
Although NEC was able to improve its accounting and reporting practices and bring about a more
accurate system for the issuance and collection of new bills, it did not manage to substantially
reduce its long over-due accounts.
9.    Technical Assistance. The technical assistance was completed satisfactorily, but it has not
been possible to assess its longer term impact at this stage. Five National Energy Administration
(NEA) staff members attended international training courses in energy sector planning, and
several others received on-the job training while working with the international consultants. The
technical assistance also included the development of computerized planning models for the use of
NEA.
Sustainability
10.   The main benefit of the project is the availability of additional generating capacity in the
Blue Nile Grid, which supplies electricity to most of the productive sectors of the economy. This
benefit will endure for the investment's useful life of about 25 years provided NEC operates and
maintains the plant adequately. In this respect the Project benefitted from the Training Center for
the training of operations and maintenance staff, established under the Power III and Power
Rehabilitation Projects, and also from the staff training provided by the contractors. The
sustainabiity of the project results is however, to a major extent, dependent on NEC's ability to
charge adequate tariffs and collect revenue to provide funds to cover operation and maintenance
expenditure. Management commitment to and encouragement of good performance are other
essential conditions for long-term sustainabiity. To achieve that NEC should be allowed to
operate on a commercial basis. At the completion of the Project NEC was still attached to the
Government administration in a way that substantially curtailed efficiency.
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.   The main findings from this operation are the following:
(a)    The Bank should have been more decisive in exercising its remedies for non-
compliance with credit covenants;
(b)    The Project has shown that sustained institutional and financial improvements are
difficult to obtain without major changes in the way the power sub-sector is
operated and managed. The project should have addressed NEC's institutional
weaknesses in a more comprehensive manner, including increased autonomy; and
(c)    Future lending to the Sudan power sub-sector (assuming of course resumption of
Bank lending to Sudan) should be contingent on the Government agreeing to
major power sub-sector reforms, including the commercialization of NEC and the
encouragement of private sector participation in the financing and management of
power facilities, as discussed in the Bank's Power Sub-Sector Policy Paper,
approved by the Board in October 1992.






SUDAN
POWER IV PROJECT (Cr. 1788-SU)
PROJECT COMPLEHION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Title:             Power IV project
Credit Number:             1788-SU
Region:                    AFRICA, Country Department II
Country:                   SUDAN
Sector:                    ENERGY
Subsector:                 ELECTRIC POWER
Closing Date:             June 30, 1993
2. Project Background
2.1   The preparation of the Power IV Project started in 1982, and was originally appraised in
July 1983. The Project was designed to assist in the financing of the major components of
Sudan's Power Development program for 1986-1990. The implementation of the investments
required about US$230 million in foreign exchange. This necessitated complex co-financing
arrangements and a long time for their finalization due to the difficult economic situation in Sudan
and particularly arrears problems with key donors. As the required US$180 million in co-
financing was not obtained, IDA suspended the processing at the Green Cover stage and the
project was split into two smaller projects: (i) the Power Rehabilitation Project; and (ii) the
reduced Power IV project. Following a post-appraisal mission in mid 1984, the Power
Rehabilitation Project was formulated to assist in financing of the most urgent needs which
included the rehabilitation of the existing facilities and urgently needed new capacity. The
reduced Power IV Project was designed to finance most of the remaining items of NEC's
investment program not included in the Power Rehabilitation Project. An updated Initial Project
Brief was prepared on November 27, 1985.
2.2    Discussions between IDA, NEC and the Government of Sudan led to the definition of the
least-cost expansion program for generation and NEC's investment program during the
preparation and appraisal of the originally proposed Power IV project in August 1983, as well as
in the context of the Power III project and the Power Rehabilitation project. As a next step a
feasibility study for the Khartoum North power plant expansion was funded under the Power
Rehabilitation project, including an optimization of the unit size, in view that such expansion was
the next project in the least-cost generation capacity sequence. The study also reviewed the load
forecast and other generation options and concluded that the expansion of Khartoum North with
two units of between 45 MW and 60 MW each was still the least-cost solution for increasing the
generation capacity. During project appraisal in November 1986, the least-cost programs were
revised to take account of recent adjustment in load forecast, investment costs, fuel prices, and
foreign exchange constraints. IDA's analysis confirmed that the expansion of the Khartoum North
power plant was the least-cost generation expansion program.



-2-
2.3   The Power IV project was designed to provide additional capacity to avoid continued
rationing. The poor power supply situation, had started to improve after the commissioning of
new facilities and rehabilitation of existing ones under the Power Im Project. Although the supply
was expected to further improve once the components of the Power Rehabilitation Project were
completed, it was not sufficient to cope with the past suppressed demand and moderate demand
growth. This moderate growth was expected to continued even under the difficult economic
conditions and the civil war in the South at the time of appraisal.
2.4   By the time of Board presentation, project activities were proceeding satisfactorily. NEC
had completed a tariff study with the assistance of USAID, and a computer adviser, also financed
by USAID, was assisting NEC in improving its billing system. The consultants to assist in the
implementation of the Khartoum North power plant expansion with financing provided under the
Power Rehabilitation Project, and those to support NEC's Finance Directorate were appointed.
NEC had established a project Implementation Unit and appointed a qualified engineer as Project
Manager.
3. Project Design and Organization
3.1    Desiz. The Project was prepared to follow-up and complement the development of
Sudan's power sub-sector which IDA had supported under three previous projects. The project
design was based on several detailed power sector studies: NEC's least-cost power sector
development program up to FY90, prepared by consultants in 1982; the 1983 feasibility study for
the original Power IV; and the 1986 feasibility study for the Khartoum North Extension carried
out under the Power Rehabilitation Project. The project concept was justified within the context
of the sub-sector's least-cost development plan, which IDA confirmed during appraisal. From the
technical point of view the project was well designed.
3.2   The institutional and technical assistance components were based on results of consultancy
studies under the Power III Project and those carried out by bilateral donors, especially USAID.
They would also build on the work already carried out under the ongoing Power Rehabilitation
Project. The selected approach focused on improving NEC's efficiency through technical
assistance, provision of computer hardware and software, and staff training within the existing
institutional framework. In hindsight, the IDA should have selected a more comprehensive
approach, including increased autonomy.
3.3   In 1990, the project design was modified as a result of cost increases due to the extended
implementation period. The two studies (the environmental study and the study on load
characteristics) were dropped and instead the project provided for consultancy services to evaluate
the feasibility of adding a fifth generating unit at the Khartoum North power station.
3.4    Risk. The risks related to the project were considered small in the SAR, since NEC had
successfully implemented a similar plant under the Power III Project. The SAR pointed out that
selecting the same consultants who had assisted NEC in implementing similar projects would
reduce project risks. The SAR also stressed that NEC's changes to achieve sustained financial
viability and institutional improvement may be affected by political pressures to constrain future
price increases and NEC's managerial weakness. These risks were however considered to be
within acceptable limits as NEC had a record of satisfactory performance under other projects and
the project included measures to strengthen and support NEC's financial and managerial
performance. As it turned out, NEC did not gain sustained autonomy from the Government, in



-3-
fact it probably became more dependent under the new Government, and was not able to improve
its financial situation significantly during Project implementation.
3.5    Organization. The implementation responsibility of the project components was clearly
divided between NEC, who was in charge of the power components, and the NEA, who was in
charge of the technical assistance to energy planning component. Main responsibility for
implementation of the power components was assigned to NEC's Project Implementation Unit
which was reported to have performed relatively well. NEC was also assisted by an international
consulting firm in all aspects of project management, engineering, design, procurement, contract
preparation, and site supervision. To facilitate know-how transfer, NEC staff members were
assigned to work alongside with the consultants.
4. Project Objectives and Description
4.1    Objectives. The project had three main objectives:
(a)    provide generation capacity to meet projected demand in the interconnected Blue
Nile and Eastern grid areas by 1991, (to relieve a heavy constraint on production
increases in agriculture and manufacturing in the early 90's);
(b)   strengthen the National Electricity Corporation (NEC) in attaining sustained
institutional improvements thereby meeting its corporate objectives, particularly in
the areas of management, finance and power expansion planning; and
(c)    help the Government, through the National Energy Administration (NEA), to
improve energy planning and policy formulation.
4.2    Description. The project consisted of the following five components:
(a)    provision and installation of two oil-fueled steam thermal generating units of
between 45 MW and 60 MW each, at the existing Khartoum North power plant;
(b)   technical assistance, training and equipment and materials for NEC's
organizational and staff development;
(c)    provision of consulting services for an Environmental Study to review the impact
of present and planned thermal generation on the Khartoum area;
(d)    provision of consulting services for a study of load characteristics and patterns of
consumption by consumer category and analysis of technical and non-technical
losses; and
(e)   technical assistance for the National Energy Administration (NEA) for energy
planning, studies and for institutional development.



-4-
5. Project Implementation
5.1    NEC established a Project Implementation Unit and assigned an engineer to head it. The
site works at Khartoum North Power Station were supervised by 10 site engineers of which four
were from NEC, one from a local consulting firm and the rest were the staff of the consulting
engineer. The implementation of the Khartoum North Power Station was not without problems,
resulting in delayed commissioning by two years and higher than planned costs. In the beginning,
the construction of the houses for site personnel, which was the responsibility of NEC, was
delayed and resulted in additional costs for temporary housing. The civil works were
substantially delayed. Reasons quoted for these delays were: coup d'etat in Sudan; mis-
fabrication of structural steel members; miscommunication between the civil works contractor,
their subcontractor and the consulting engineers; cash-flow problems due to late payment by
NEC; and difficulties in releasing materials at Port Sudan. The completion of the civil works as
well as the installation of boilers were further postponed due to delay in the delivery of the
electrical equipment and cables as a result of the unexpected civil war in the contractor's home
country, the former Yugoslavia, which hindered the manufacture of the equipment. Additionally,
the AfDB, who financed this component, was not able to make the required disbursements in the
planned fashion due to the UN sanctions to Yugoslavia. At NEC's request, the Serbian contractor
agreed to assign the contract to a cable supplier from the U.K and a confirmed transferrable letter
of credit was established in Switzerland. The cables were finally delivered and the construction
could be completed.
5.2    Despite the assistance by consultants to the Finance Directorate, NEC was not able to
achieve the institutional objectives of the project and its financial performance remained
disappointing. A contributing reason for the difficulty in improving NEC's performance was the
difficult political and economic situation which had decreased the morale of the NEC staff. The
devaluation of the Sudanese pound had eroded gains achieved through increased salaries and
benefits, and in the initial project years there were signs that an increasing number of middle level
staff were taking advantage of leave without pay to work in the Gulf. The Government also
implemented several changes in NEC's top management which caused some disruption in the
continuity of NEC's operations.
5.3    Towards the end of the project some progress was made with respect to the institutional
components. The Government agreed to the implementation of a new tariff structure and to tariff
increases in FY90, FY91 and FY92. As a result NEC's financial position improved but due to
the severely strained starting position, the improvement was not sufficient. A major cause for
NEC's weak financial situation was also its poor revenue collection performance. NEC initiated
various programs to improve billing and collection, for instance, it established a senior directorate
solely responsible for managing and undertaking collection initiatives, opened additional collection
centers, and engaged private collection agents. As a result, average cash collections increased to
about 83 percent of total billing in FY92. Nevertheless, outstanding receivables in FY92 were
equivalent to about 12 months of sales. The reason was that NEC was not able to significantly
reduce arrears which were more than one year old. It is estimated that the bulk of these arrears
pertain to residential consumers.
5.4    As a result of the consulting services to NEC's Finance Directorate and the computers
provided under the project, NEC's accounting and reporting systems improved. Nevertheless,
during its final supervision mission, the Association recommended NEC to install additional
computers to further enhance its management information systems. Due to the reduction of the



-5-
Sudan portfolio, IDA was not able to follow-up on this recommendation. The original project
design included the provision of a professional Accountant for a period of three years to assist
NEC, but inspite of NEC's attempts it was not possible to recruit a suitable person. It was
therefore agreed between NEC and the Association to drop this requirement, and use the
consultants already on board to provide the necessary assistance.
5.5    NEC's consultants completed a manpower inventory and action plan to improve
productivity in October 1987. Despite several reminders from the Association, the plan was not
successfully implemented and the number of staff increased from some 10,000 in FY87 to more
than 11,000 in FY92. NEC's consumer to staff ratio improved nevertheless due to faster than
expected increase in consumers.
5.6   For the technical Assistance component, NEA signed contract with a Dutch consulting
firm in September 1989. This assistance was provided in two phases. Phase I covered: (1)
energy use in the transport sector. NEA adopted a transport model to allocate national traffic
flows to specific modes and routes on the basis of least energy consumption; data collection,
review of energy demand forecasting methodology and the development of the LEAP model to
generate energy demand scenarios; (3) review of short and medium term expansion plans of NEC;
(4) establishment of a Renewable Energy Committee. The second phase had to be reduced from
the original scope in order for it to be completed on time, due to an initial delay and the brief
interruption caused by the Gulf Crisis. The reduced phase II included, iter alia: (1)
operationalization of the transport model; preparation of energy demand scenarios; (3) evaluation
of energy conservation measures; evaluation of renewable energy options; and development of
regional energy demand forecast. NEA staff received on-the job training when working with the
consultants. Additionally, five staff attended international courses on energy sector planning.
5.7   Co. Since the Borrower has not made the final project costs available to IDA, the costs
have been estimated based on original contract values and information in the latest available
progress report, dated October 1992. The estimated final cost of the project is US$105 million
compared to the SAR estimate of US$89 million. Comparison of the estimated final costs and the
SAR estimates shows that there was a major cost over-run in the civil works component. The
delay in project implementation was likely a contributing factor. The estimated final cost of the
steam generating units was also higher than the SAR estimate. The reason for this increase was
largely that the cost estimate in the SAR was based on two oil-fueled steam generating units of
between 45 MW and 60 MW, 45 MW being the miniimum capacity required. It was further
assumed that due to temporary market conditions for the supply of steam plants in this capacity
range, two 60 MW units could be purchased at the price of two 45 MW units. The actually
constructed 60 MW steam units were however more expensive than the 45 MW units. In
agreeing to 60 MW units, the Association highlighted the need for arranging additional financing,
and at that time there appeared to be good prospects for filling the financing gap from Austria,
since an Austrian firm was awarded contract for supply of boilers. Despite repeated reminders
from the side of IDA, no action was taken by the Borrower to approach the Government of
Austria or other donors for this purpose. The additional cost was reportedly covered by the
Govermnent of Sudan.



-6-
6. Project Results
6.1    Technical. The project achieved its technical objective, which was to provide additional
generation capacity in the Blue Nile Grid. However, instead of the planned commissioning in
1991, the two generating units were commissioned in 1993.
6.2   Institutional and Financial. The institutional and financial objectives of the Project were
not fully achieved. NEC achieved partial success in improving its financial performance through
tariff increases. The implementation of the increases was, however, delayed, and they were not
enough to compensate for high domestic inflation and the depreciation of the Sudanese currency.
NEC's weak financial situation was also a result of its inability to collect revenue. Although
NEC was able to improve its billing and accounting systems, and improve the collection of new
revenue, it did not manage to substantially reduce its long over-due accounts. As a result of all
this, NEC was not in compliance with the financial covenants of the Credit. For instance its rate
of return on revalued net fixed assets was negative in FY89 instead of the covenanted 10 percent,
and its accounts receivable were more than 458 days of sales instead of the covenanted 90 days of
sales. NEC was also not able to follow through with the agreements made during negotiations
that NEC would reduce its workforce. Although the consumer to staff ratio improved during
project implementation due to an increase in the number of customers, the number of staff
increased. This compounded with salary increases to compensate for domestic inflation from
FY89 and onwards increased NEC's operating expenses. Another factor which reduced NEC's
managerial effectiveness was the several changes in its top management positions.
6.3    NEC's consultants developed a computerized asset register which was introduced in early
1989 to assist in determining the true replacement value of NEC's fixed assets. NEC's efforts to
operate the register were hampered by lack of computer literate staff and qualified accountants,
and its assets were revalued only in FY92.



-7-
6.4    NEC's annual rate of return on fixed assets and account receivable during project
implementation are shown in Table 1. below.
Table 1.      Rate of return on average revalued net fLxed assets in operation and Accounts
Receivable FY87-92. 1/:
Fiscal year    Rate of Return on Average  Account Receivabk
Revalued net Fixed Assets in  Days of Sals
Operation
1987                4.0%                      350
1988                0.5%                      355
1989                -0.6%                     458
1990                2.3%                      334
1991                1.5%                     361
1992                0.7%                     345
Source: NECs financial stements and information contined in the projectfle. FY92 data is
preimnary.
6.5    Technical Assistance. The objectives for the technical assistance to NEA were achieved,
although it has not been possible to assess its sustainability. Five NEA staff members attended
international training courses and several others received on-the job training. As a result of the
project the NEA staff was trained in data collection, state-of-the art energy sector planning
methodologies and computerized planning models. Given NEA's limited capabilities to carry out
energy planning, the project provided well needed assistance.
6.6    Economic Rate of Return. In the SAR the economic rate of return (ERR) for the Blue
Nile expansion program, of which the project was a component, was calculated at about 20
percent using the increasing annual average tariff yield for each project year as a measure of the
value of benefits. To re-calculate the ERR we would need to have the investment costs, not only
for the Power IV Project, but for all other projects NEC has implemented or is planning to
implement to meet the demand for electricity in the period 1987-2001, which was the time slice of
the investment program used in the SAR calculation of the ERR. In addition, we would need the
operation and maintenance costs for the same period, and an estimate of the consumers'
willingness-to-pay for electricity. Because IDA does not currently have an active dialogue with
the Government of Sudan, IDA has not obtained the required data. Hence, the ERR has not been
recalculated. It is estimated, however, that when using the same methodology as was used in the
SAR, the re-calculated ERR would be lower. The main reasons for the assumed lower ERR are
the loss of benefits in the initial years due to some delays, higher than expected project cost, and
lower that forecast tariffs in many years. Nevertheless, as pointed out in the SAR, the average
tariff yield may underestimate the consumers' willingness-to-pay.
1/    T7he rate of return covenant was uicreased from 9 percent in te Power Rehabiltation Project to 10 percent in
the Power IV Projectfrom FY89 and onwards.



-8-
7. Project Sustainability
7.1    The steam generating units will provide electricity supply for the next 25 years, provided
that they are adequately operated and maintained. In this respect the Project benefitted from the
Training Center for the training of operations and maintenance staff, established under the Power
III and Power Rehabilitation Projects, and the operator training provided by the contractors and
consultants. The sustainability of the project results is however to a major extent dependent on
NEC's ability to charge adequate tariffs and collect revenue to provide funds to cover operation
and maintenance expenditure. Management commitment for and encouragement of good
performance are other essential conditions for long-term sustainability. This would require NEC
to operate autonomously and on a commercial basis, which it did not do at the completion of the
Project. The Project should have put much more emphasis on increasing NEC's autonomy and
improving its commercial operations.
8. Association Performance
8.1    The rationale for IDA involvement in this project was to support key infrastructure
essential to production and public enterprise reform, in accordance with IDA's Country Assistance
Strategy. Although the Country Assistance Strategy emphasized rehabilitation, the generation
expansion project was seen justified since there were no further investments in rehabilitation
which would substantially reduce the need for new generating capacity, and additional capacity
was necessary to achieve production increases in both agro-processing and industrial sectors.
Additionally, in the absence of other donors, IDA support was considered crucial to ensure
continuation of NEC's institutional reform.
8.2    Despite of IDA's important role in Project Supervision, it should have made more
energetic representations regarding the financial and institutional aspects of the Project and used
its remedies for non-compliance with the Credit covenants. During nine supervision missions,
IDA monitored closely the implementation of the physical components and NEC's financial
situation. IDA repeatedly, but unsuccessfully, advised the Borrower to solicit donor funds to
close the project financing gap. IDA also recommended several actions to put NEC's finances
back on track, but NEC generally failed to implement the recommendations.
8.3    The effectiveness of IDA's supervision efforts was reduced due to the cut down in the
Sudan Portfolio. For instance in 1991, IDA did not carry out field supervision of the project.
9. Beneficiary's Performance
9.1    The performance of NEC improved towards the end of the project period. Throughout
the project, however, NEC's performance was better in the implementation of the physical
components than on the institutional or financial side. For instance NEC responded very quickly
to minimize costs by demobilizing the main contractors until the delayed electrical cables and
cable trays were received. However, late payment of the contractors' and consultants' claims by
NEC and the Borrower resulted in delays. Lack of autonomy, changes in top management and
NEC's inability to attract competent middle level management affected its institutional
performance. The difficult economic climate in Sudan further made it more difficult to the
Government to implement staff reduction programs and tariff increases. Since the Government
did not approve NEC's tariff increases, NEC was many a time unable to finance the local



-9-
components of the project, which delayed implementation. Neither the Borrower nor NEC
complied fully with the credit covenants.
10. Project Relationship
10.1  The Association maintained good working relationship with the NEA and NEC, and the
only co-financier, the African Development Bank during project preparation and supervision. All
Bank disbursements to Sudan were suspended on September 13, 1993, due to arrears problems.
11. Consulting Services' and Contractors' Performance
11.1  Consulting Services. The performance of the consultants was satisfactory. The
consulting engineers, which assisted NEC in implementing the Khartoum power plant extension,
were experienced and had worked with NEC already in a similar project under the Power Im
project. The consultants which helped NEC in financial and accounting matters had also
previously worked with NEC and had prepared the productivity improvement plans. The Dutch
Consultants, which provided technical assistance to the NEA completed their assignment as
agreed.
11.2   Contractors. The performance of the contractors was generally satisfactory and the
encountered delays were primarily due to factors which were out of the control of the contractors
themselves. The civil works contractor experienced problems due to late payments by NEC
which affected the contractor's cash flow and slowed down work space, shortages of fuel and
other goods at site, strike by local employees due to non-payment of social insurance payments
and a claim for extra bonus, and the delayed delivery of electrical equipment due to the civil war
in the former Yugoslavia.
12. Procurement
12.1  The procurement method was as follows:
(a)   International Competitive Bidding for the procurement for the civil works for the
Khartoum North power plant expansion and for the boilers and water treatment
equipment, and vehicles;
(b)    Procurement guidelines of the co-financier (African Development Bank) for the
procurement of turbine-generators, electrical equipment and control and
instrumentation equipment; and
(c)    Association guidelines for the selection and use of Consultants by borrowers for
the procurement of consulting services.
12.2  For the civil works NEC received 17 bids which were opened on April 9, 1988. The
contract was awarded to a contractor from Poland. The civil works contract was delayed by 4.5
months due to the long time it took to process the bids. For the boilers and water treatment
equipment NEC received 12 bids on the bid closing date on 21, November 1987. The contract
was awarded to a the lowest evaluated bid from an Austrian contractor. The contracts for
vehicles were awarded to two Japanese firms.



-10-
13. Disbursements
13.1   A total of US$41.02 was disbursed compared to the SAR estimate of US$38 million. The
difference in the amounts is a result of the appreciation of the SDR during the implementation
period. Disbursements were slower than expected due to implementation delays. Disbursements
were completed over a period of five and a half years as compared to the appraisal estimate of
four and a half years.
14. Audits
14.1   As of May 1994, the following three audits were not received by IDA: NEC's FY92 and
FY93 financial statements, and the NEC revolving fund.
15. Project Documentation and Data
15.1  Project documentation in the SAR and project files were adequate to prepare this PCR.
NEC and the consulting engineers submitted to the Association quarterly progress reports but the
submission of audited financial statements was delayed. NEC's quarterly progress reports
sufficiently described progress related to the physical components, but were not adequately
detailed about the institutional and financial components of the project. The technical assistance
to NEA component was documented in separate progress reports prepared by the consultant. The
Association's supervision reports described the implementation adequately, pointed out problems
and deviations, and recommended improvements.
16. Findings and Lessons Learned
16.1  The main findings from this operation are the following:
(a)    The Bank should have been more decisive in exercising its remedies for non-
compliance with the credit covenants;
(b)    The Project has shown that sustained institutional and financial improvements are
difficult to obtain without major changes in the way the power sub-sector is
operated. The project should have addressed NEC's institutional weaknesses in a
more comprehensive manner, including increased autonomy; and
(c)    Future lending to the Sudan power sub-sector (assuming of course resumption of
Bank lending to Sudan) should be contingent on the Government agreeing to
major power sub-sector reforms including the commercialization of NEC and the
encouragement of private sector participation in the financing and management of
power facilities, as discussed in the Bank's Power Sub-Sector Policy Paper,
approved by the Board in October 1992.



-1 1-
SUDAN
POWER IV PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
No comments were received from the Borrower.



-12-
SUDAN
POWER IV PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III. STATISTICAL AND OTHER PROJECT INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Group Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit X)t.k            A:tunt                                          Board      &atm
_____I__j                                                                 j4PPt;f; 0wd0t   U $  __
Loan 522-SU (Power I)            24 Provide new generation and transmission  1968       Closed
capacity and consulting services to assist
in the improvement of the organization
_and management of the Borrower.
Credit 564-SU (Power II)         23 Meet the need for additional generating   1975      Closed
capacity in the Blue Nile Grid and
provide assistance for institutional and
operational improvements.
Credit 1006-SU (Power EI)        65 Help in meeting Sudan's power            1980       Closed
requirements up to the end of 1986 and
provide for staff training.
Credit 1624-SU (Power             30 Rehabilitate existing generation capacity,  1985   Closed
Rehabilitation Project)              provide urgently needed new capacity,
promote institutional development, and
reform power tariffs.
2. Project TImetable
P4amaed D)ate                     AcrmvaJDate
Identification _                                   r                                       1982
Preparation                    |                                                  June 23, 1986
Appraisal Mission                           November 14, 1986                   December, 1986
Credit Negotiation                            February 2, 1987                    April 2, 1987
Board Approval                                 March 31. 1987                      May 5, 1987
Credit Signing                                                                November 9, 1987
Credit Effectiveness                            September 1987                   March 7, 1988
Proiect Completion                          December 31, 1991                December 31, 1992
Credit Closing                                   June 30, 1992                    June 30, 1993



-13-
3. Credit Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year and      CI  latie CI nuxiw Dlsbumsmen.   Actual as Perecnt
Semester                           Disbursemetug s          ActwaL US$ EQ       Of Appraisal 21
Appraia Estimateiv
US__  EO - 
FY88 December 31, 1987                        0                          0                   0
June 30, 1988                        2.28                          0                  0
FY89 December 31, 1988                      6.84                       5.95               87%
June 30, 1989                        13.3                       8.52               64%
FY90 December 31, 1989                    20.52                        9.17               45%
June 30, 1990                       26.98                      16.50               61%
FY91 December 31, 1990                     31.92                      23.95               75%
June 30, 1991                       34.96                      33.98               97%
FY92 December 31, 1991                     37.24                      37.56              101%
June 30, 1992                       38.00                      39.64              104%
FY93 December 31, 1992                        0                       40.28              106%
June 30, 1993                           0                      40.34              106%
FY94 December 31, 1993                        0                      41.02               108%
2/     The USS equwlvant amowws exceed the appraisal etimanes because of the appreciation of the SDR. Zhe SDR
to the USS exchange rate was quoted at 1.26 in th MOP of April 20, 1987, whilk it was abou 1.4 at Credit
closing in June 1993.



-14-
4. Project Cost and Financing
4.1. Comparison of SAR and Actual Project Costs
(US$ million)
Project Como:nent           SJ8Af                : &      :ate   stimated Aacual Costs1
Locall Foregn        Total   Local j  Forein    Tota
Power house & other works          3.0        10.3     13.3     0.3       24.5     24.9
Boilers & water treatment          3.2        16.5     19.7     0.5       24.0    24.5
Turbine-Generator sets and cooling  1.8       21.7     23.5       0       24.4    24.4
Electrical equipment                1.4        6.1      7.6       0       12.9     12.9
Control & instrumentation          0.4         4.3      4.7     0.3        7.8      8.0
Engineering                        0.5         5.1      5.6      1.9
NEC institutional development      0.5         1.4      1.9     n/a        7.8      9.7
Power sub-sector studies           0.5         0.7      1.2      n/a
Support to NEA                     0.5         0.5      1.0     n/a        0.6      0.6
Total Base Cost                 11.9        66.6     78.4     3.0      102.0   105.0
Physical contingencies              1.3        4.8      6.1
Price escalation provision         0.7         3.5      4.2
Total Project Cost              13.9        74.8     88.7     3.0      102.0   105.0
Interest during construction       14.3 T 1            14.3     n/a        n/a      n/a
Total Financing Required        28.21       74.8      103     n/a        n/a      n/a
(1) Estimates are based on original contract wvlue and information in the October 1992 progress
report.



-15-
4.2. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                      1Estimate in SAR I               Actual      Difference %
IDA                                    38.0                   41.0          + 8 %
IDA under Credit                        0.9                    0.9           0 %
1624-SU
Co-Financiers                          35.9                55.4 (1)         + 54 %
Utility/Government                     28.2                 8.3 (2)         - 70 %
Total Project Cost                  103.0                  105.6          + 3 %
(1) The AJDB credit amounted to US$S55.4 million, of which US$53,000 was undisbursed at project
closing. Acoording to AJDB, withdrawal applications submitted to the AJDB exceed the
undisbursed amount.
(2) Estimated.
Notes: Additional funding was obtained from France as a grant of 6 million French Francs (US$1
milUion) to co-finance the Control and Instrumentation contract. The Japanese Govwrnment
provided a grant of 2147 million Yen (US$17 million)for the purchase of locomotives for the use in
the transportation offuel oil to the Khartown North Power Station.
5. Use of the Association Resources
5.1 Staff Inputs
Task                                                      inputs (Staff Wee4)
Preparation                                                      22.4
Appraisal                                                        27.4
Negotiations                                                      13.9
Supervision                                                      64.8
Total                                                        128.5



-16-
5.  Miuon Data
Through
Appraisal
Pre-appraisal   Jul 1986      5      PE-PE-FNA-OA-Con                    IMission was unable to
obtain reliable financial
information from NBDC
Appraisal     Dec 1986        3      PE-PE-FNA
Supervision
Oct 1987       3      PE-PE-Con                    1        NEC institutional
development plan: 6
month delay
Doc 1987       2      FNA-OA                                Accountant not
appointed; account
receivable position
Nov 1988       2      FNA-PE                       2        In default of financial
covenants
Jul 1989       2      FNA-OA                      2        In default with financial
covenants; management
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ ___ __   ___ ____ ___ ___ _   _ ___ ___ ___ of   N E C
Mar 1990       2      FNA-OA                       2        In default with financial
.    covenants; cost overrun
Sep 1990       3      FNA-OA-PE                    2        In default with financial
covenants, cost overrun;
financing gap not closed
Nov 1992       3      FNA-PE-FA                    2        In default with financial
I                     I .   _         covenants.
OveraU performace rating. 1 = Probltmfree or minor problem
2 - Moderate problems
3 = Major problemu
Specialization:        FNA=,Fiancial Aalyst; FA  Fmancuia Asistant; OA = Operanos A nalyst, PE= Power
Engineer; Con- Cors -att.
The Power IV Project war s4pervised together wih the Power Rehabilitation Project.



-17-
6. Project Implementation Schedule
-  1   --:          ;'.       'D     : io,i D.-ss-
lProiect Compont                                    $AR Target Datesa D-A |
1. Khartoum North Power Plant
Expansion                                                                                           l
Unit no. 3                                       Feb 1991                    May 1993
Unit No. 4                                       Apr 1991                    May 1993
2. NEC Institutional Development                       Doc 1989                       1992
3. Power Sub-Sector Studies                            Jun 1989                end 1992/eady 1993
4. Support to NEA                                      Dec 1990                     Jan 1993



-18-
7. Status of Compliance with Major Covenants
Description of Covenantm                       Status of gCompiance
1. Borrower shall cause NEA to maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of NEA. (DCA 4.01 a)
2. Borrower shall cause NEA to have its records,   Delayed compliance.
accounts and financial statements and the records
and accounts for the NEA Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied
by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association. (DCA 4.01 b)
3. Borrower shall cause NEA to furnish to the  Delayed compliance.
Association as soon as available but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each
such year: (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited; (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (C) such other
information concerming such records, accounts,
financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request. (DCA 4.01 b)
4. Borrower shall: (i) in order to enable NEC to    A new tariff structure was implemented on
meet the requirements of Sections 4.03 and 4.04  October 1, 1989. The tariffs were increased in
of the project Agreement, review NEC's tariffs  August 1991, January 1992, July 1992.
and take appropriate action thereon; and (ii) take
all measures required on its part to enable NEC to
implement tariff structure pursuant to section 4.06
of the Project Agreement. (DCA 4.02)
5. Borrower will revise fuel oil prices to reflect    NEC is being subsidized with respect to
the cost of production, transportation and     transportation costs.
marketing. (DCA 4.03)
6. Borrower will prepare and furnish to IDA by  NEC obtained locomotives for the supply of fuel
December 31, 1988, a program, including        to the Khartoum North power station in 1988.
timetable, outlining actions to ensure a reliable  Fuel is currently said to be supplied mostly by
fuel supply for generation to the Khartoum area  road.
prior to the commissioning the generation facilities
under the project. (DCA 4.06)
7. Borrower will by December 31, 1987: (i)     (i) The Government has made NEC responsible
transfer to the regional power supply entities the  for atl power supply arrangements in Sudan.
assets, and financing liabilities associated   (ii) Not in compliance.
therewith, which are included in NEC's accounts
but relate to operations outside the national grids;
and (ii) finalize on-lending arrangement for all
foreign grants and loans passed on to NEC. (DCA
4.07)
8. Borrower will (i) settle by September 30, 1987   Government accounts up to June 1985 were settled
the outstanding electricity bills of its departments   in end 1986.
and non-revenue earning agencies to a level    (i) Not in compliance.
representing no more than 90 days of their     (ii) Not in compliance.
respective consumption over the last 12 months;
(ii) undertake quarterly reviews and settlements of   NEC maintains a debit/credit arangement with the
the outstanding electricity bills. (DCA 4.04)  Ministry of Finance.



-19-
9. NEC will prepare by December 31, 1987: (i) a   (i) a program was prepared.
personnel management and supervision program    (ii) a plan was prepared.
designed to improve staff efficiency; (ii) an action   (iii) the plan was not implemented but the
plan, based on the findings of the manpower    estimated consumer to staff ratio improved to 36
mventory study to be completed by September 30,  in FY92 from the FY88 ratio of 28.
1987, designed to inprove productivity of NEC
measured in terms of numbers of electricity
connections per employee and containing annual
targets acceptable to IDA; and (iii) thereafter
implement the action plan taking into account
IDA's comments. (PA 3.04)
10. NEC will adjust its insurance coverage     Not discussed in supervision reports.
following preparation of an asset register and
evaluation of its assets.
11. NEC will (i) complete by March 31, 1988, a    (i) Computerized asset register in place in
computerized asset register, including current  September 1990.
replacement value of existing assets; and (ii)  (ii) Fixed assets were revalued in FY92.
revalue its assets yearly according to a
methodology to be agreed on by NEC ad IDA
prior to March 31, 1988. (PA 4.07)
12. NEC will by June 30, 1992, settle with     Not in compliance.
Government all amounts outstanding which
Government has advanced to NEC's creditors on
behalf of NEC. (PA 4.09)
13. NEC will not incur any long-term debt      NEC did not take on any new debt, but its
without IDA's consent, unless a reasonably     estimated revenue was less than 1.5 times debt
forecast shows that NEC's net revenues for each  service requirements.
FY are at least 1.5 times the maximum debt
service. (PA 4.02)
14. NEC will prepare quarterly consolidated    Not in compliance. NEC was not able to get up-
accounts, statements and management reports    to-date quarterly reports from area offices.
starting July 1, 1988. (PA 4.01)
15. NEC will submit to IDA certified copies of  Delayed compliance. NEC was often not able to
its accounts audited b independent auditors and  close its books in time. Govermment Auditors
the report of such a uit by said auditors within  were not able to come in time.
eight months after end FY87 and within six     IDA proposed hiring of private auditors but
months after end of subsequent fiscal years. (PA  Government did not agree.
4.01)
16. NEC will: (i) generate internally sufficient  (i) Not in compliance.
finds to finance 20 % of its capital investments for   (ii) Not in compliance.
FY88; (ii) earn a rate of return on revalued   (iii) Not in compliance.
average net fixed assets of no less than 10% for  (iv) Partial compliance. See 14 below.
FY89 and thereafter; (iii) review yearly with IDA
whether the internal cash covenant or rate of
return covenant will be met; and (iv) review semi-
annually the adequacy of its tariffs and make
recommendations for tariff adjustments to the
Government based on such review. (PA 4.03,
4.04, 4.05)
17. NEC will: (i) reduce its total accounts    (i) NEC's accounts receivable as of June 30, 1992
receivable to no more than 90 days of sales by  were equivalent to about 12 months of sales.
June 30, 1988, to 75 days of sales by June 30,  (ii) Not in compliance.
1990, and to 60 days of sales by June 30, 1992,
and keep them at such level thereafter; and (ii)
prepare and submit to IDA every three months,
starting December 1987, a report summarizing its
outstanding accounts and state what actions it
proposes to take. (PA 4.08) 



-20-
18. NEC will implement, not later than January  A new tariff structure was implemented on
1, 1988, a new tariff structure based on the   October 1989. The tariffs were increased in
recommendations of the tariff study and taling  August 1991, January 1992, July 1992.
into account the Association's comments. (PA
4.06)
19. NEC will: (i) review its investment program  (i) Not in compliance.
with the Govermnent and IDA at least once a year   (ii) In compliance.
by March 31, 1987 and revise it by agreement
among NEC, the Government and IDA; and (ii)
not undertake any project not included in the
investment program, in excess of US$10 million
or 1.5% of NEC's gross revalued assets in
operation, unless NEC has furnished evidence
satisfactory to IDA that such project is
economically and technically justified. (PA 4.10 &
4.11)                                          _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _
20. NEC will staff PMU with appropriate        In comptiance.
numbers of qualified professionals.  A 2.01_



-21-
8. Comparative Balance Sheets (FY87 - FY92)
Year endig Jw   : J                   1988           19P            19W             9Ij
ft  Cfldd     &4: Acail  S.4R   Arnad  "dR   AMnss JA &a            d    SAXciuu
_~~~ .                                                  I                                      _   ,
Ame
Fixed Asset
Plba in Operation    1699.7 1439.3 3495.7  2398.6 4891.7  2986., 6155.2 3391.5 7945.6  3434.6  10320.6 80054.3
Depreciation       470.3  461.8 1021.6  965.9 1447.3  1107.0 1968.9  1221.8 2571.5  1330.5  3212.3 31016.3
Net Plant         1228.9  977.5 2474.1  1441.6 3443.9  1879. 4186.3  2169.7 5374.1  2104.C  7108.3 49038.0
Works in progres   170.0  190.5  360.0  342.6  618.3   897.0 1461.6  796.2 2022.3  1120.1  1965.0  1852.4
Accounu            205.0         165.0            100           50.0              0               0
Cwrrent Asse 
Cash & Banks        14.6   17.7   17.7   13.0  27.0    27.1   30.4   33.5   35.8   66.0    39.2   225.2
Accounts receivable   126.2  258.8  102.8  265.9  178.5   290.7  195.5  486.2  240.2  1045.8   246.1  1937.3
Inventory           42.8   49.   51.0   60.1  104.9    35.   146.7   96.3  184.7   157.3   238.4   383.6
Other                4.1   10.9    4.6    11.7   5.2    84.4    5.8  140.5    6.5    24.8        7.3   134.7
Totl             187.7  336.6  176.1  350.8  315.5   437.  378.5  757.0  467.2  1293.9   531.1  2680.8
Totol Asse          1791.6 1504.6 3175.2 21350.0 4477.7  3213.  6076.3  3722.5  7863.6  4518.1  9604.4 53571.2
Equity & l iiim
Equity
Capital             11.2   11.2   11.2   11.2   11.2    11.   11.2   11.2   11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2
Reuined EAninps    67.2  164.5  137.0  120.8  323.0   -46.9  518.3   13.7  764.5   604.4  1041.5  1574.9
Grns:               11.1         155.9          155.9   557.   155.9  592.9  155.9   672.6   155.9   788.7
Exchange Fluct.     -179          -510          -1046  -369.9  -1506  -401.8  -2079  -401.8   -2658  -524.6
Revaluation Res.   742.4  287.3 1880.9  787. 2538.1  1317.3 3282.4  1317.3 4024.4  1317.3  4708.5 48072.9
Totl| 752.9  463.  1674.8  919.2 1982.7  1469. 2461.6  1533.3 2876.6  2203.7  3259.0 49896.1
Long-TermDeo       596.9  913.6 1093.9  864.1 2041.0  1301.9 3103.5  1468.3 4453.9  1276.9  5837.5  1680.8
Deferred payments   330.3        257.3          223.0          208.8          164.7             10.6
Current Ushdlitis_____
Accounts pyable     15.2  127.6  21.6  351.3  38.5   442.1   52.4  721.1   64.3  1037.5    83.4  1994.3
Interet on capitd    7.0      0    9.5           15.2       (   24.5           34.3       0    46.6
Other               89.3      0  118.1          177.3           225.5         269.9            367.2
Total            111.5  127.6  149.2  351.3  231.0   442.1  302.5  721.1  368.5  1037.5   497.3  1994.3
Total Liabilities   1791.6 1504.6 3175.2  2135.0 4477.7  3213.6 6076.3 3722.7 7863.6  458.1  9604.4 53571.2
Current Ratio         1.7   2.6    1.2    1.0    1.4       1.0    1.3    1.1    1.3      1.3      1.1     1.3
DdWtEqity Ratio    44:56  66:34  40:60   48:52  51:49   47:53  56:44  49:51  61:39   37:63   64:36   3:97
Recevabls (days)    167   350    90    355       90     458      75    334    75    361        60      345
Source:  SAR ecna  are bado Powr IV SAR prepared i 198Z AcWambare aCd a NEC', C na         aema.
3/      FY92 data based on NEC's anaudadfianci sWaements. NEC'sfixed assets were revalcd in FY92.



-22-
9. Comparative Income Statements (FY87 - FY92)
Yarc ending Jn 3          987         1                           10             1 I      1     99:. 
SAR  AcSual SAP  Actual  A    Acugal   S       Acuw   SP  Actual  S         Actua
Sales (GWh)            1174  1217  1326  1096  1463    970   1618  1240   1739   1259   1960  1705
Average Tariff        0.232  0.22  0.31    0.2 0.488      0.2   0.58    0.4  0.663     0.8  0.754    1.2
(Lsd/kWh)
Average tariff        0.093        0.082        0.849          0.082         0.079          0.079
(USS/kWh)
Revenues
Salca Revenues      272.4  267.2 411.1  271.1  713.9  223.8  938.4  520.8  1153. 1034.5  1476.9 2004.9
0
Other Revenuc         5.2   2.7   6.4   2.3   7.5    8.1    8.3   9.8   8.7   22.2    9.1  44.9
Total Revenucs    277.6 269.9 417.4  273.4 721.4  232.0  946.7  530.5  1161.  1056.7  1485.9 2049.9
7
Expenses
Salaries& Wages      32.1  39.4  35.7  47.5  38.8  111.4   41.0  122.5  43.1  170.9   44.6  368.1
Fuel & Power         65.0  70.0  86.9  88.2  158.3   85.5  218.9  97.2  269.7  197.0  356.9 694.7
Rcpairs&              12.0  25.6  25.5  35.4  52.4   41.6   73.4  50.1  92.3   65.6  119.2  138.8
Maintenance
Other                 14.2  23.8  17.4  25.5  20.4   41.9   22.6  72.9  23.8  101.5   24.7  192.0
Provision for bad debt   37.0   8.8  0   14.5     0     0.9       0    9.9     0       0       0   85.4
Depreciation         47.7  51.8  114.6  51.8  154.8  107.5  208.2  114.8  253.6  108.7  313.5  118.5
Total Expenses    208.0 219.4 280.0 262.9  424.8  388.8  564.1  467.4  682.5  643.7  858.8 1597.5
Operating Income       69.7  50.5  137.4  10.5 296.6  -156.8  382.7  63.1  479.2  413.0  627.1  452.4
Interest on Loans      36.7  36.7  58.1  43.7  95.4   43.7  162.9  53.0  198.7   46.4  303.5  24.1
Interest on Capital     7.0  11.1   9.5   7.0  15.2        0    24.5   7.0  34.3        0   46.6       0
Nct Income           26.0   2.7  69.8  -40.2  186.0  -200.5  195.3   3.1  246.2  366.6  277.0 428.3
Rate of retur (%)     7     4      7    0.5    10   -0.6    10    2.3    10    1.5    10    0.7
Source: SAPR esoimates are based on Power IV SAR.
Actuals are based on NEC sfinanc    statements. FY92 data is unaudted.
Notes:  Sales (GWh) for FY91 and FY92 are estumates.
Rate of Return:  In SAR based on estimated replacement cost values.
FY87-FY91 actul are based on hisorical coss, while FY92 actal reflects asset revaluation.



-23-
10. Comparison of NEC's Selected Performance Indicators (FY87-FY92)
*S?1         IS8            198      l    9           1M 192
___  AC"  S_ _- A_ _    U__R __c___j  Aa |A Act        SAN  A cad  AR EJ     d
Installed Capacity (MW)             484           484    467   544    474   544   513   634   541  694    584
Peak Demand (MW)                    306    230   330    238   353    270   373   268   396   276  423           n/a
Generation (GWh)                   1479   1379  1637   1379  1768   1263  133  1482  1948  1575 2179           n/a
Sales (GWh)                        1125   1217  1271   1096  1402    970 15522  1240  1634  1259 1844           n/a
Technical Loses % of net gen.       16.0    7.0  16.0   16.0   16   18.0  14.5  12.   13.5  15.0 13.0    n/s
Non-Technical Losce % of net gen.    7.0    5.0   6.3    5.0   4.7    5.0   3.4   5.1   2.7   5.0  2.4          n/a
Fuel Consunption
Heavy Fuel Oil '000 tons          108    n/a   130    154   150        95   151   128   201   128  235        123
Gas Oil '000 tons                   7     n/a    17      18    32      43    45    32       9    53    1      46
No. of Consumner '000               276     n/a  282    284   28S    332   294   341   300   349  305    409
No. of Emnployees '000              10.1    n/a   9.1   10.1   8.1   10.5   7.1  10.5   6.1  11.4  6.1    11.4
Ratio Consurnerc/Employee           28   nra  | 31    28        36     32     41    32    50    31   51    36
Source:  Power IV Projea SAR wud hfonaaor in he projeacfi.
11. Major Contracts Signed
1.       Supply & Construction of Turbine Generators & Associated plant Extension of Kharoun  North
Power Station, Phase 2: 1987-10-18 (U.K)
2.       Civil Works-Khartoum North Power plant: 1990-02-27 (Poland)
3.       Control and Instrumentation Equipment-Khartoum North: 1989 (France)
4.       Boilers and associated Plant: 1988 (Austria)
5.       Electrical Plant & Equipment-Khartoum North: 1989-01-1 (Serbia)
6.       Turbine generators & Associaed Plane 1988 (Germany)
7.       Vehicles: 1989-08-30 (Japan, two firms)
8.       Reinforcement of 220/110 kV Substation at Kilo X: 1988 (Germany)
9.       Consultancy Services for Eastem  Grid Substation Rehabilitation: 1987-10-14. (Finland)
10.      NEC Consulting Services: (Ireland)
11.     Technical assistance for Sudan Power IV Project: 1989. (The Netherlands)
12.      Consulting Services for installation & preventive maintenance of the NEC power plant training
simulator: 1990-12-08 (Ireland)
13.      Consulting Services for study of Khartoum North Power Station Unit 5: 1990-10-01 (U.K)



