Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1788-SU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Fourth Power Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 9, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1788-SU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 9, 1987, between THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has contracted from the African Development Fund (ADF) a 
loan (the ADF Loan) in an amount equivalent to thirty-five million ADF Units of 
Account to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the ADF Loan 
Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and ADF;
(C)
the Project will be carried out with respect to Parts A, B and C by the 
National Electricity Corporation (NEC) and with respect to Part D by the National 
Energy Administration (NEA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
Page  2
assistance, the Borrower will make available to NEC and NEA the proceeds of the Credit 
as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and NEC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.O1. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.O2. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"NEC" means the National Electricity Corporation, a corporation 
established and operating under the Borrower's National Electricity Corporation Act of 
1982;
(b)
"NEA" means the National Energy Administration within the Borrower's 
Ministry of Energy and Mining;
(c)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and NEC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(d)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and NEC pursuant to Section 3.O1 (b) (i) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e)
"NEC Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement;
(f)
"NEA Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) 
of this Agreement; and 
(g)
"fiscal year" means the period starting July 1 and ending June 30 of each 
year.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
30,100,000).
Section 2.O2. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A, B and C of the Project, 
open and maintain in U.S. dollars a special account (the NEC Special Account) in the 
Page  3
Bank of Sudan on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the NEC Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part D of the Project, open and 
maintain in U.S. dollars a special account (the NEA Special Account) in the Bank of 
Sudan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the NEA Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may, from time to time,
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.O7. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 
1997, and ending April 1,
2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2007, 
shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement: (i) 
shall cause NEA to carry out Part D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project; and (ii) shall cause NEC to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of NEC therein set forth, 
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable NEC to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take, or permit to be taken, any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
relend, out of the proceeds of the Credit, an amount not exceeding 
Page  4
the 
equivalent of SDR 29,700,000 under a subsidiary loan 
agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and NEC, under terms 
and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Association and 
which shall include, inter alia, a 
service charge of 7.92% 
per annum, repayment over 20 years, including five 
years of 
grace, and the foreign exchange risk to be borne by NEC; and
(ii)
make available, out of the proceeds of the Credit, an amount not 
exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 400,000 to NEA on a grant basis 
under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the 
Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts A, B and C of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
(b)
In order to assist NEA in carrying out Part D of the Project, the 
Borrower shall cause NEA to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B and 
C of the Project shall be carried out by NEA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower shall cause NEA to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of NEA.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause NEA to:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the NEA Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Page  5
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until one year after the completion of the audit for the 
fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)
in order to enable NEC to meet the requirements of Sections 4.03 and 4.04 
of the Project Agreement, review NEC's tariffs and take appropriate action thereon; 
and
(b)
take all measures required on its part to enable NEC to implement the 
tariff structure pursuant to Section 4.06 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall revise, in accordance with its ongoing overall 
energy pricing policy review, the fuel oil prices to reflect the cost of production, 
transportation and
marketing.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
by December 31, 1987, settle the outstanding bills for electricity 
rendered by NEC to the Borrower and its non-revenue earning agencies, so that the 
remaining outstanding electricity
bills do not exceed 90 days of their respective consumption over the last twelve 
months; and
(b)
commencing December 31, 1987, undertake quarterly reviews and 
settlements, acceptable to the Association, of the outstanding electricity bills of 
the departments and non-revenue earning agencies of the Borrower.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, without limitation or restriction upon the 
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, take all measures necessary to ensure 
that NEC has access to
foreign exchange funds needed to obtain essential imported recurrent inputs, spare 
parts and machinery replacements.
Section 4.06. In order to ensure the reliable transportation of fuel supply to 
the Khartoum area power generation stations, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to 
the Association, not later than December 31, 1988, a program, including timetable, 
outlining the actions for securing a reliable fuel supply before commissioning of the 
generating facilities under the Project.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)
transfer, not later than December 31, 1987, to the regional power supply 
entities the assets and financing liabilities associated therewith, which are included 
in NEC's balance sheet but relate to electricity supply operations outside the 
national grids; and
(b)
finalize, not later than December 31, 1987, the on-lending arrangements 
Page  6
for all foreign grants and loans obtained by the Borrower and passed on to NEC for the 
purpose of financing NEC's power investments.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.O1. Pursuant to Section 6.O2 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
NEC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that NEC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower's National Electricity Corporation Act of 1982 shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of NEC to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish ment of NEC or for the suspension 
of its operations.
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have  been  
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under 
such agreement; and
 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.O1. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
Page  7
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.O1 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that the Senior Director of Finance and the Senior Director of Planning 
of NEC have been appointed; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and NEC.
Section 6.O2. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.O2 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by NEC 
and is legally binding upon NEC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and NEC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NEC in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.O3. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.O1. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.O2. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and
   Economic Planning
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum
The Republic of Sudan
Cable address:
Telex:
 
EIMAR
22324
Khartoum
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  8
THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
By /s/ Salah Ahmed
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                8,600,000)
                                         )
(2)  Equipment and             13,100,000)
     materials                           )
                                         )
(3)  Technical                           )
     assistance:                         )
                                         )       100% of foreign
     (a)  under Parts A,        5,000,000)       expenditures
          B and C of the                 )
          Project                        )
                                         )
     (b)  under Part D            400,000)
          of the Project                 )
(4)  Unallocated                3,000,000
                               _________
        TOTAL                 30,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to expand NEC's power generation 
facilities; (ii) to strengthen NEC's and NEA's management capabilities; and (iii) to 
improve the Borrower's long-term
planning efforts for the energy sEctor.
Page  9
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Khartoum North Power Plant Expansion
 
Supply, erection and commissioning of two oil-fueled steam thermal generating 
units with a capacity of between 45 MW and 60 MW each and associated equipment.
Part B:
Support of NEC
 
Strengthening of NEC's financial and corporate planning capabilities through the 
provision of consultants' services, training and computer facilities.
Part C:
Power Subsector Studies
 
1.
An environmental study on the impact of the present and future thermal 
generation on the Khartoum area.
2.
A study of load characteristics and patterns of consumption by consumer category 
and analysis of technical and other losses.
Part D:
Support of NEA
 
Strengthening of NEA's energy planning and managerial capabilities through the 
provision of consultants' services and training.
*          *          *          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.
SCHEDULE 3
NEC Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) (a) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A, B and C of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
2,400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the NEC Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the NEC Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the NEC 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the NEC Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the NEC Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the NEC Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
Page  10
deposit into the NEC Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish 
the NEC Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of 
the NEC Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 
of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the NEC Special Account for which 
the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the NEC Special Account shall be made by the Association when 
either of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
Eligible 
Categories for Parts A, B and C of the Project, minus 
the amount of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by 
the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, shall be 
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories for Parts A, B 
and C of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further Withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the NEC Special Account, as of the date of such notice, will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the NEC Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the NEC Special Account (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further 
deposit by the Association into the NEC Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the NEC Special Account will not be required to cover further payments 
for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the 
Credit Account.
SCHEDULE 4
NEA Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Category" means Category (3) (b) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible 
Page  11
Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 80,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the NEA Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the NEA Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the NEA 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the NEA Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the NEA Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the NEA Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the NEA Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish 
the NEA Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of 
the NEA Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible 
Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 
of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the NEC Special Account for which 
the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such  payment  was made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the NEA Special Account shall be made by the Association when 
either of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
Eligible Category 
for Part D of the Project, minus the  amount of any 
outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions 
with respect to Part D of the Project, shall be equal to 
the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Category for Part D of the 
Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the NEA Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the NEA Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the NEA Special Account (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
Page  12
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further 
deposit by the Association into the NEA Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the NEA Special Account will not be required to cover further payments 
for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the 
Credit Account.
