Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1788-SU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Fourth Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
Dated November 9, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1788-SU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 9, 1987, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and NATIONAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION (NEC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
The Republic of Sudan (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million one hundred 
thousand  Special Drawing Rights (SDR 30,100,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that NEC agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and NEC, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made
available to NEC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS NEC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) NEC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts A, B and
C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and public utility practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Parts A, B and C of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of coordinating the Project activities under Parts A, B 
and C, NEC shall maintain the Power IV Project Management Unit which shall be 
adequately staffed and shall
operate under terms of reference mutually agreed upon by NEC and the Association.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts A, B and C of the 
Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. NEC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A, B and C of the Project.
Section 2.04. NEC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NEC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) NEC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A, B and C of the Project, 
the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
NEC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by NEC 
of its obligations under this Agreement  and  under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NEC
Section 3.01. NEC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental and public utility 
Page  3
practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate 
numbers.
Section 3.02. NEC shall, at all times, operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property and, from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public 
utility practices.
Section 3.03. NEC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice, including adjustments of the insurance 
coverage following the actions taken by NEC pursuant to Section 4.07 of this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. NEC shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than December 31, 1987, 
for its review and comments: (i) a personnel management and supervision program 
designed to improve staff efficiency; and (ii) an action plan designed to improve the 
productivity of NEC measured in terms of the numbers of electricity connections per 
employee; such action plan shall be based on the
findings of the on-going manpower inventory study to be concluded by September 30, 
1987, include projections of future staffing needs and set forth annual targets 
acceptable to the Association
for increases in the number of connections per employee; and
(b)
thereafter implement the action plan taking into account the 
Association's comments.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NEC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
Without limitation upon the generality of paragraph (a) above, NEC shall 
prepare accounts, statements and management reports in respect of all of NEC's area 
offices and consolidate
them, as of the quarter commencing from the fiscal year starting on July 1, 1988, with 
the head office accounts not less frequently than at quarterly intervals.
(c)
NEC shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the NEC Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate  auditing  
principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than eight months after the end of fiscal year 1987 
and six months after the 
end of each fiscal year thereafter: (A) 
certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year 
as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall, from time to time, 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NEC shall not 
Page  4
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of NEC 
shows that the estimated
net revenues of NEC for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred 
shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt services requirements of NEC in such 
year on all debt of NEC
including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of NEC maturing by its 
terms more than 
one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net  revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration,  adequate  maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding  provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash 
operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by NEC 
not earlier 
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both 
the Association and NEC accept as reasonable 
and as to which the Association 
has notified NEC of its acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred 
since such notification 
which has, or may reasonably be expected in the future 
to have, a 
material adverse effect on the financial condition or future 
operating results of NEC.
(vii)
Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing official rate of 
exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, 
obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt or, in the absence of such 
rate, on the 
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NEC shall 
produce, for fiscal year 1988, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 
20% of NEC's capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year.
(b)
Before March 31, 1988, NEC shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by 
the NEC and satisfactory to the Association,review whether it would meet the 
Page  5
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of fiscal year 1988 and shall 
furnish to theAssociation the results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If such review shows that NEC would not meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph (a) for NEC's fiscal year covered by such review, NEC shall promptly take 
all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or 
levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer 
deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net 
non-operating income and any reduction 
in working capital other than 
cash; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes (excluding provision  for 
depreciation and other non-cash 
operating charges), debt 
service requirements, all cash dividends and 
other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues (A) above.
 
(iii)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between 
current assets excluding cash and current liabilities 
at the end of each 
fiscal year.
 
(iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash 
which could, in the ordinary course of business, be 
converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses 
within the next 
fiscal year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could, under circumstances then existing, 
be called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vii)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred on 
account of 
fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to 
operations.
 
(viii) Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing official rate of 
exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valutation, 
obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt or, in the absence of such 
rate, on the 
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Page  6
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NEC shall 
earn, for each of its fiscal years starting in fiscal year 1989, an annual average 
return of not less than 10% of
the average current net value of NEC's fixed assets in operation.
(b)
Before March 31 in each of its fiscal years, NEC shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by NEC and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such review upon 
its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that NEC would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for NEC's fiscal years covered by such review, NEC shall 
promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its 
rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purpose of this Section:
 
(i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing NEC's net 
operating income 
for the fiscal year in question by one half of the 
sum of the current net 
value of NEC's fixed assets in operation 
at the beginning and at the end of 
that fiscal year.
 
(ii)
The term "net operating income" means total operating revenues 
less total 
operating expenses.
 
(iii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
 
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate of 
not less than 3% per annum of the 
average current gross value of NEC's fixed 
assets in operation, or 
other basis acceptable to the Association, but 
excluding 
interest on equity capital, interest and other charges on debt.
(v)
The average current value of NEC's fixed assets in operation shall 
be 
calculated as one half of the sum of the gross value of 
NEC's fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the end of 
the fiscal year, as valued from 
time to time in accordance with sound 
and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the 
Association.
(vii)
The term "current net value of NEC's fixed assets in operation" 
means the 
gross value of NEC's fixed assets in operation less 
the amount of accumulated 
depreciation, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and 
consistently maintained methods of 
valuation  satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.05. NEC shall review semi-annually (including the March 31 review) the 
adequacy of its tariffs taking into account its obligations under Sections 4.03 and 
4.04 of this Agreement, and make recommendations for tariff adjustments to the 
Borrower based on such review.
Section 4.06. NEC shall implement, not later than January 1, 1988, a new tariff 
structure based on the recommendations of the tariff study and taking into account the 
Association's comments
thereon.
Section 4.07. NEC shall:
(a)
complete, not later than March 31, 1988, a computerized asset register, 
including current replacement value of existing assets; and
(b)
revalue yearly its assets according to a methodology which shall have 
Page  7
been agreed upon by NEC and the Association, not later than March 31, 1988.
Section 4.08. NEC shall:
(a)
reduce its total accounts receivable: (i) not later than June 30, 1988, 
to no more than an average of 90 days of sales during the preceding twelve months 
period; (ii) not later than
June 30, 1990, to no more than an average of 75 days of sales; and (iii) not later 
than June 30, 1992, to no more than an average of 60 days of sales and, thereafter, 
shall not exceed such level; and
(b)
commencing December 31, 1987, and every three months thereafter, furnish 
to the Association a report summarizing its outstanding accounts and stating what 
actions it proposes to take for the collection of the amounts.
Section 4.09. NEC shall settle with the Borrower, not later than June 30, 1992, 
all amounts outstanding which have been advanced by the Borrower to NEC's creditors on 
behalf of NEC.
Section 4.10. NEC shall review with the Borrower and the Association, by March 
31 of each year, and such other dates as changing circumstances require, NEC's 
investment program covering
at least eight years, and make the required revisions thereon by agreement among the 
Borrower, NEC and the Association.
Section 4.11. Until the completion of the Project, NEC shall not undertake any 
investment not included in its investment program, in excess of $10 million equivalent 
or 1.5% of NEC's
gross revalued assets, unless NEC has furnished evidence satisfactory to the 
Association that such investment is economically and technically justified.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
NEC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development  Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify
NEC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such 
Page  8
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For NEC:
National Electricity Corporation
P.O. Box 1380
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:
Telex:
 
AMPERE
22628
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NEC, may be 
taken or executed by the
Director General or such other person or persons as NEC shall designate in writing, 
and NEC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the  authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
By  /s/ Salah Ahmed
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  9
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
NEC Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant 
to paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the 
first payment out of the NEC Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the NEC Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist NEC in carrying out of engineering design for the Project, 
the preparation of bidding documents and the evaluation of bids, and the supervision 
of the construction of the Project and its coordination,  NEC shall employ engineering 
consultants.
2.
In order to assist NEC in carrying out Part B of the Project, NEC shall employ, 
not later than March 31, 1988, a professional accountant and consultants in its 
Finance Directorate.
3.
In order to assist NEC in carrying out the studies under Part C of the Project, 
NEC shall employ appropriate consultants.
4.
The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of 
consultants referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Section shall be satisfactory 
to the Association; such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Page  10
