Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 18960
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION
A1ND
AND A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 1.5 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
May 14, 1999
Urban Development Sector Unit
China Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY ]EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 1999)
Currency Name = Renminbi
Currency Unit Yuan (Y)
Y 1.0(1 = $8.3
$0.12:= Y 1.0
FISCAI, YEAR
January 1 - D)ecember 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIC       - Average Incremental Cost           OED       - Operations Evaluation Dept.
BOT       - Build, Operate, Transfer           PMO       - Project Management Office
CAS       - Country Assistance Strategy        RAP       - Resettlement Action Plan
CDC       - Chengdu Drainage Company           SCC       - Sichuan Construction
CNAO    - China National Audit Office                      Commission
DFID      - Department for International       SCHB      - Sichuan Cultural Heritage Bureau
Development (UK)                   SDPC      - State Development Planning
DSTC      - Deyang Sewage Treatment                        Commission
Corporation                        SEPB      - Sichuan Environmental Protection
EA        - Environmental Assessment                       Bureau
FMS       - Financial Management Systems       SFB       - Sichuan Finance Bureau
GDP       - Gross Domestic Product             SOE       - Statements of Expenditures
GIS       - Geographic Information Systems     SP        - Sichuan Province
GVIO      - Gross Value of Industrial Output   SPG       - Sichuan Provincial Government
ICB       - Intemational Competitive Bidding   SPMO      - Sichuan Project Management
IPCAP    - Industrial Pollution Control                    Office
Action Plan                        SUEP      - Sichuan Urban Environment
IST       - Institutional Strengthening and                Project
Training                           TVE       - Town and Village Enterprise
LEWSGC  - Leshan Water Supply General          UMIS      - Urban Management Information
Company                                        System
LESMB   - Leshan Environmental Sanitation      WTP       - Willingness to Pay
Management Bureau                  WYR       - Western Yangtze Region
LEWTC   - Leshan Wastewater Treatment          ZDC       - Zigong Drainage Company
Company                            ZWWTC  - Zigong Wastewater Treatment
LUWSC   - Luzhou Water Supply Company                      Company
MOC       - Ministry of Construction           ZWSC    - Zigong Water Supply Comparny
NCB       - National Competitive Bidding
Vice President:    Jean-Mi chel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director:   Yukon ]luang, EACCF
Sector Manager:     Keshav Varma, EASUR
Team Leader:        Geoffrey Read, EASUR



CHINA
SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objective ................................................................2
1. Project development objective ...............................................................2
2. Key performance indicators ...............................................................2
B: Strategic Context ................................................................,.2
1. Sector-related  Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .....................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ................................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..............................................3
C: Project Description Summary ................................................................4
1. Project components ...............................................................4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...................................................5
3. Benefits and target population ................................................................5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ................................................................                          6
D: Project Rationale ................................................................7
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................................7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank Group and/or other development agencies ...........8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ....................................................................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................................ 10
5. Value added of Bank Group support in this project .................................................................. 10
E: Summary Project Analysis .................................................................... 10
1. Economic ....................................................................                                                         10
2. Financial ....................................................................                                                         11
3. Technical ....................................................................                                                         12
4. Institutional ....................................................................                                                    12
5. Social ....................................................................                                                           13
6. Environmental assessment ....................................................................                                          13
7. Participatory approach ....................................................................                                           14
8. Social Impact and Benefits ....................................................................                                       14
F: Sustainability and Risks ....................................................................                                                     14
1. Sustainability ....................................................................                                                   14
2. Critical Risks  ....................................................................                                                  15
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .................................................................... 15



- ii-
G: Main Loan Conditions .................................................................                                                      15
1. Effectiveness Condition .................................................................. 15
2. Other .................................................................  15
H: Readiness for Implementation .................................................................                                              17
I: Compliance with Bank Group Policies .................................................................                                       17
Annex 1: Project Design Summary ................................................................. 18
Annex 2: Project Description ................................................................. 20
Annex 3A: Estimated Project Costs .................................................................                                            32
Annex 3B: Project Implementation Program .................................................................                                     44
Annex 4: Economic Analysis .................................................................                                                   45
Annex 5: Environmental Assessment And Mitigation Measures Summary .............................................. 55
Annex 6: Resettlement .................................................................                                                        60
Annex 7: Financial Summary .................................................................                                                   61
Annex 8: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ................................................... .............. 66
Annex 8, Table A: Project Costs by Procureraent Arrangements ................................................. 68
Annex 8, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements ............................................................. 69
Annex 8, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ................................ 69
Annex 8, Table C: Procurement Contract Packaging .................................................................   70
Annex 8, Table D: Procurement-Institutional Development, Urban Management
Information System, Construction Supervision and Training ................................................... 74
Annex 8, Table E: Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds ......................................................... 75
Annex 9: Project Processing Budget and Schedule .................................................................. 76
Annex 10: Documents in the Project File .............................                                                                          77
Annex 11: Statement of Loans and Credits .............................                                                                          79
Annex 12: Country at a Glance .............................                                                                                     82
Map: IBRD 30125



Page 1
China
Sichuan Urban Environment Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Urban Development Sector Unit
Date: May 14, 1999                                       Team Leader: Geoffrey Read
Country Director: Yukon Huang                            Sector Manager: Keshav Varma
Project ID: CN-PE-43933                                  Sector: Urban Environment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan             Theme(s): Urban Services, incl. Water & Wastewater
Poverty Targeted Intervention:     [X] Yes   []  No
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan       [X] Credit        [] Grant        [] Guarantee       [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (UJS$M): IBRD Loan $150.0; IDA Credit SDR 1.5
Proposed terms:     [IBRD]                      ] Multicurrency       [X] Single currency
] Standard Variable  [    ] Fixed             [X] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):                   5; 10
Years to maturity:                     20; 35
Commitment fee:                 0.75%; 0.50%
Service charge:                        0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:             1.0%
Government                                                    173.8               20.                194.7
IBRD                                                           66.0               84.0               150.0
IDA                                                             0.0                2.0                 2.0
Other (specify)
Total:                                                        239.8              106.9               346.7
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: Sichuan Province, and the municipalities of Chengdu, Deyang, Guanghan, Leshan, Luzhou and Zigong
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual            6.1          10.5          19.4          31.5          32.1          34.4          18.0
Cumulative           6.1          16.6          36.0          67.5          99.6          134.0         152.0
Project implementation period: (July 1999 - June 2005)
Expected effectiveness date:    November 1999             Expected closing date: June 2006
Implementing agency:          Sichuan Provincial Government, through Provincial Construction Commission
Contact person:              Zhou Guangyan, Vice Governor, Sichuan Provincial Government
Address:                      30, Duyuan Street, Chengdu, 610016, People's Republic of China (PRC)
Tel: 011 86 28 557 1036       Fax: 011 86 28 557 1037             E-mail: suepgpublic.sc.cninfo.net
OCS PAD Formn: October 9, 1998



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the proposed Sichuan Urban Environment Project (SUEP) is to provide a
safe environmental setting for the sustainable long-tenn economic growth of urban areas in Sichuan
Province (SP). The project would support the Province in implementing the first phase of a long-term
urban environmental services improvement program to recover from past environmental degradation of
its water and land resources, provide an adequate supply of safe water to its growing urban population and
economy, and maintain water quality at levels compatible with the needs of the basins of the Min and Tuo
Rivers, protecting water quality of the Yangtze River while protecting public health, especially of lower
income groups.
Progress toward this objective would be measured in terms of (a) reduction of total pollution loads from
the urban sector to the Min and Tuo Rivers through selective high-impact wastewater and solid waste
management improvements; (b) expansion of capacity for supplying safe water in urban areas; and (c)
strengthened financial viability and institutional autonomy of municipal services.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators would include quantified targets for reduced water pollution from the urban
sector into rivers, reduced water pollution from the industrial sector, expanded supply of safe water to
meet urban demand, increase in volume and service area of solid waste collected and disposed of, and
reduced level of subsidies for investments in urban environmental infrastructure.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber: 16321-CHA        Date of latest CAS discussion: March 18, 1997 and Progress
Report (R98-107), May 28, 1998
The project would support directly two of the five priorities expressed in the most recent CAS: the
safeguarding of the environment and the reduction of infrastructure bottlenecks. Specifically, it would
strengthen water quality management capability and expand the capacity of urban environmental services.
The project would also support the use of tariffs to finance environment-related public services, and the
Bank Group and China's growing focus on river basin pollution control. Discussions with the central and
provincial governments have laid the foundation for long-term Bank Group involvement in strengthening
these services, with the proposed project acting as the first step in this process.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The principal environmental problem in Sichuan is the poor and declining water quality in many of the
rivers in the province, in particular the Min and the l'uo. These rivers are extensively exploited for
agriculture, which results in low residual flows and associated limited capacity for assimilation of
wastewater discharges from urban areas and industry. The low flows and the generally inadequate degree
of enforcement of environmental regulations result in water quality that is inadequate to sustain the
desired beneficial uses of river water.
In order to address the growing need for municipal services, the Sichuan Provincial Government (SPG)
plans to expand and improve municipal wastewater management, water supply and solid waste
management services while strengthening utility delivery mechanisms and pricing reform. Water supply
plans include the remodeling of existing systems and construction of new systems to provide water to



Page 3
urban residents in the Min and Tuo river basins. In an effort to curb pollution from urban and industrial
sources, ambitious pollution control targets have been set for the year 2000, including a cap on the total
amount of heavy metals in industrial wastewater at 1995 levels, and the improvement of surface water
quality to meet national standards. A total of 25 percent of domestic and 65 percent of industrial
wastewater would be collected and treated, far more than the present levels. To reach these targets, SP
would tighten enforcement of existing standards, in particular for industrial pollution control; expand
capacity of wastewater collection and treatment systems; and improve solid waste management.
In order to finance the expansion of urban environmental infrastructure, the participating municipal
governments have created financially autonomous wastewater companies. Given shrinking public
investment budgets and subsidies, these companies would, from now on, rely increasingly on user charges
to finance their operational costs and debt service requirements. The already established financially
autonomous water supply companies would, through tariffs, finance their operational and debt service
costs, and contribute to their capital investment financing requirements. These cost recovery objectives
are consistent with central and provincial government objectives for utility companies and are supported
by the Bank Group. Solid waste management services would be financed increasingly from user fees.
The high cost of investments in urban environmental infrastructure calls for integrated water resource
management. It would be necessary for SPG to identify cost-effective solutions, which would address
water supply and wastewater management simultaneously and which would, for example, take into
account the water quality needs of an entire river basin. To reach this goal, SPG would overcome the
current institutional fragmentation in water resource management and build management support systems
for forward-looking, long-term planning, making effective use of the large amount of data periodically
generated by various agencies.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Municipal Environment and Wastewater Management: The project would support SPG in
implementing its water quality protection and environmental rehabilitation strategy. Given the
consistently high water quality of the Yangtze River, efforts would focus on the Min and Tuo river basins,
the two most heavily polluted river systems. In particular, it would focus on highly polluted sections of
the Fu River (a tributary of the Min River) near Chengdu, leading to the Min River, the upper part of the
Tuo River and the Fuxi River (a tributary of the Tuo River) near Zigong.
Industrial Pollution Control: There is also substantial pollution from industry, particularly in the Min
and Tuo river basins. Without a significant effort to control industrial wastewater pollution, expected
environmental benefits from municipal investments would be marginal. SPG has agreed to address this
issue through the implementation of policy focussed Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan (IPCAP).
The IPCAP would reduce pollution loads discharged from the key polluting sectors: fertilizer, pulp/paper,
food and mining, by means of a program of investments in wastewater treatment and clean technology,
covering process improvements and materials substitution. In the case of pulp/paper production, the
IPCAP would adopt a sector-wide approach based on restructuring and rationalization to ensure
affordability of pollution control and sustainability for the sector. The initial phase of the IPCAP would
involve local investments at four large polluting enterprises in the fertilizer, food and mining sectors.
Water Supply: The project would support the upgrading of water supply in Leshan, Luzhou and Zigong
cities. In addition to remodeling and building new capacity, the project would support demand-side
management, in particular through increased real tariffs. Current national and provincial development
plans are based on an increase of water consumption from about 150 liters per capita per day (lcd) to
about 210 lcd in the year 2000, for both domestic and industrial use. Taking into consideration the large
investment requirements for both water and wastewater infrastructure, this unit water demand appears



Page 4
high compared to other countries. The project investments would enable the cities to meet demand within
expanding service areas through about 2010 while at the same time providing demand management
through the tariff structure.
Solid Waste Management: The project would support Leshan city to increase its service coverage to 100
percent of the urban population, increase its collection efficiency, and provide environmentally safe
disposal of collected wastes. Leshan would also increase collection and landfill fees in an attempt to
recover a major portion of the operating costs of this service.
Region-wide Water Resource Management: SPG lacks analytic tools and management support systems
to integrate the various data sources available on water q[uality and quantity. The project would support
the development of urban management information systems (UTMIS) for the government and for utilities
to project demand for infrastructure and services, assess their impact on the environment, and monitor
trends. SPG would have the opportunity to link with a siimilar system currently under development with
Bank Group assistance in Chongqing Municipality, allowing both govemments to undertake more
effective river basin-wide planning.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Indicative Costs            Bank
Component                    Category      (US$M)        % of    financing    % of Bank
Total    (US$M)       financing
Min River Basin
Chengdu Wastewater                           Physical        93.2        28.6        42.9         46.0
Leshan
Water Supply                           Physical       22.8         7.0          9.0         39.5
Wastewater                             Physical       18.8         5.8          7.0         37.2
Solid Waste                            Physical        9.2         2.8          3.5         38.0
Subtotal Min River Basins                            144.0        44.2         62.4         43.3
Tuo River Basin
Deyang Wastewater                            Physical        32.3         9.9        12.6          39.0
Luzhou Water Supply                          Physical        27.8         8.5        11.6          41.7
Zigong
Water Supply                           Physical       66.7        20.5         36.9         55.3
Wastewater                             Physical       35.2         10.8        14.5         41.2
Subtotal Tuo River Basin                             162.0        49.7         75.6         46.7
Urban Management Information Systems          Policy-         4.6         1.4         4.5          97.8
Physical
Environmental Protection and Rehabilitation   Policy-         7.5         2.3         0.3           4.0
Physical
Institutional Strengthening & Training      Institution-      7.7         2.4         7.7         100.0
Building
Total Project Costs                           325.8        100.0       150.5          46.2
Interest during construction                                 19.4         -            -            -
Front-end Fee                                                 1.5         -            1.5          -
Total Financing Required                      346.7        100.0       152.0          43.8



Page 5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The policy and institutional reforms would concentrate on: (a) utility enterprise operational efficiency
improvements; (b) resource mobilization and cost recovery measures; (c) underpinning of long-term
financial and economic sustainability; and (d) industrial pollution control reduction through a focused
time-bound action plan with respect to pollution, principally from fertilizer, pulp/paper, food/beverage
and mining. The institutional strengthening and training (IST) component would enhance policies and
operational experience in environmental protection and water, wastewater and municipal solid waste
management. Support for these initiatives has been grouped into a number of main composite packages
for the various executing agencies, covering institutional development, financial management
improvement, construction supervision and training. The component would also support provincial and
sector city agencies, master planning, future project preparation and other programs of assistance to be
defined.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: The project would help SPG to put in place the policies, institutions, and infrastructure to
sustain environmental quality and improve urban services in a period of strong growth. The proposed
project would generate benefits in terms of improvements in urban environmental quality, health,
municipal services and institutional capacity:
* Environmental Benefits: improved ambient water quality in rivers currently at risk, in particular the
Tuo and Min river basins, through reduced pollution loads from urban wastewater, wastes and
industry;
* Health Benefits: reduced incidence of water pollution-related diseases as a result of improved water
supply and wastewater systems and reduced surface water pollution near water intakes;
* Improved Municipal Services: expanded coverage of water distribution, wastewater collection,
treatment and disposal, as well as municipal solid waste collection and disposal services for the urban
population of Leshan; and
* Institutional Reforms: strengthened financial and management autonomy would enable utilities to
sustain and expand the provision of essential services for a growing population. Support for
institutional development would ensure the long-term sustainability of the organizations and of the
physical investments.
Target Population: Sichuan Province is a traditionally agricultural region in south-central China, home
to some 85 million people. Between 1987 and 1992, the central government's policy of providing
incentives for growth in coastal areas left inland provinces such as Sichuan behind. However, recent
attention to the resulting regional income disparities has prompted the Government to promote economic
incentives and infrastructure investments in the inland areas. Sichuan's economy responded quickly,
growing by 12.8 percent in 1993 (compared to a national average of 13.4 percent), with growth led by
town and village enterprises (TVEs) and the emerging private sector; in recent years economic growth has
been strong, ranging from 8 to 10 percent annually. More recent estimates show continued strong growth.
Sichuan's capital, Chengdu City, forms part of an emerging urban industrial corridor that stretches
southeast as far as the newly designated municipality of Chongqing, now the world's most populated
municipality. Project beneficiaries are the existing and newly urbanized populations in the main cities of
Sichuan, who are contributing to this sustained economic growth: the project would seek to improve the
urban service levels in the main cities of Sichuan Province, by providing services affordable to the lowest
10 percent of the income distribution.



Page 6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
A Leading Group, headed by a Vice-Governor, was set up to guide formulation and give policy direction
for the preparation and, subsequently, implementation of the project. The Group designated the Sichuan
Construction Commission (SCC) as the agency responsible for managing the project. SCC organized and
staffed the Sichuan Project Management Office (SPMO) to prepare and execute the project. The SPMO's
responsibilities include: (a) overall project coordination, management and monitoring: (b) annual budget
preparation; (c) project-wide quality assurance; (d) progress reporting to SPG and the Bank Group,
including cost management, project impact and environmental improvement assessment; (e) interagency
coordination and procurement support; and (f) sectional training facilitation. The participating
municipalities have established their own project management offices also. The personnel skill mix of the
SPMO and municipal project management offices would be adjusted from time to time to reflect the
needs of the various phases of the project, including completion of preparation and implementation.
The water supply components of Leshan, Luzhou and Zigong would be implemented by the cities'
financially autonomous water supply companies. The wastewater components of Chengdu, Deyang,
Leshan and Zigong would be implemented by the cities' recently created financially autonomous
wastewater companies. The Leshan solid waste management component would be implemented by the
city's existing Environmental Sanitation Management Bureau. The Urban Management Information
System (UMIS) component would be managed by SCC, in affiliation with the Sichuan Environmental
Protection Bureau (SEPB) and participating municipalities. The environmental protection and
rehabilitation component would be implemented by the Sichuan Cultural Heritage Bureau (SCHB) and
the Guanghan and Leshan Municipalities.
The China National Chemical Construction Corporation International Tendering Company Limited
(CNCCC Tendering Company Ltd.) would be retained as the procurement agency for all aspects of civil
and electrical and mechanical works requiring bidding through international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures. Construction supervision services would be provided by an international firm using joint
international/national supervision teams.
Onlending Arrangements: The proposed loan of $150 million would be made to the People's Republic
of China. The loan would be for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard interest rate
for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans. The IDA credit of SDR 1.5 million ($2 million
equivalent) would be for a 35-year term, including a 10-year grace period on standard Association terms.
The proceeds of the loan would be onlent to the Municipalities through SP on the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan to China. The proceeds of the credit would be onlent to Leshan Municipality
through SP at IDA's standard service charge for a 17-year period, including a 5-year grace period, and a
commitment charge of 0.50 percent per year. The Municipalities would onlend the proceeds of the Bank
loan to their utility companies for 15 years including; 5 years of grace, at an interest rate and a
commitment charge not less than the rate and charge applicable to the Bank loan to China.
Financial Management: Sichuan Province has the requisite systems and staff to carry out the financial
management of the project. SP already has ongoing Bank Group-financed projects in other sectors and the
Sichuan Finance Bureau (SFB) is familiar with the Bank Group's disbursement procedures. Sichuan
prepared a Financial Management Systems (FMS) Manual, satisfactory to the Bank Group, which would
be the basis for financial management during project imnplementation. To facilitate disbursements, a
Special Account would be opened with an authorized allocation of $11.0 million, equivalent to the
estimated average expenditures to be financed by the Bank Group over about a four-month period; the
account would be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to the Bank Group and be managed by SFB.
Auditing Arrangements: As with other Bank Group-financed projects in China, the Foreign Investment
Audit Bureau of the China National Audit Office (CNAO), established in 1983 under the name of State



Page 7
Audit Administration, would have overall responsibility for auditing the accounts of the project. The
actual auditing work would be conducted by the Sichuan Provincial Audit Department under CNAO's
supervision. The Bank Group currently accepts audits performed under the responsibility of CNAO.
Audits of the financial statements of implementing agencies and audit of the Special Account would be
submitted to the Bank Group within six months after the end of the financial year. The audit reports of the
implementing agencies would include opinions on whether the agencies were in compliance with their
respective financial covenants, and whether these agencies had taken out adequate insurance on goods
and works financed from loan and credit proceeds.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The project would be supervised through Bank Group
missions scheduled for twice a year. Headquarters and resident mission staff would cooperate in this
activity. During implementation, project performance, including the achievement of project outputs and
progress towards the attainment of development objectives, would be monitored through the use of
semiannual progress reports prepared by the SPMO. The first such monitoring report would be submitted
by January 31, 2000, and the last by January 31, 2007. In addition, an implementation completion report,
reviewing the planned objectives and the achievements of the project, including costs and benefits
derived, and performance and contribution of all parties associated with project execution, would be
prepared by the SPMO and submitted to the Bank Group within six months of the closing date.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Combined Project for Sichuan and Chongqing. Initially, one urban environmental project had been
planned for Sichuan Province, which included Chongqing Municipality. However, after the 1997
separation of Chongqing as an independent municipality with provincial-level status, the new
Government of Chongqing requested that a separate project be prepared supporting the new government
in its urban environmental program. Maintaining a combined project under these circumstances would
have been difficult in terms of decision-making and institutional coordination. Hence, a parallel
Chongqing Urban Environmental Project is being prepared.
Project Focus: The Sichuan Provincial Government has determined that the focus of this urban
environment project should be river basin water resource management, with investments concentrating on
urban wastewater, water supply, solid waste management and environmental rehabilitation.
To reduce pollution from industrial wastewater discharges, and strengthen environmental management,
the project would support the implementation of a time-bound IPCAP addressing the largest polluters.
Identified investments in clean technology, end-of-pipe treatment, pretreatment before discharge to
sewers and industrial sector rationalization would be financed by Government and industry in parallel
with the proposed project.
Project Site Selection: During project formulation, the Government submitted proposals for prioritized
investments in several cities located in the Tuo and Min river basins, includinrg investments in municipal
wastewater, water supply and solid waste management. These proposals were based on a review by SPG,
assisted by international consultants, with regard to their technical and economic viability. Several criteria
were applied in the prioritization of subcomponents, including the contribution to water and wastewater
resource management, alleviation of infrastructure constraints, local priority and commitment, and the
financial viability of the service provider. The final selection was based on a river basin focus and cost-
effectiveness decision criteria. In Leshan City, protection of cultural heritage was an additional factor in
its selection as the current wastewater outfall discharges immediately in front of the "Grand Buddha"
statue, China's largest, threatening the cultural and touristic value of this site.



Page 8
Wastewater and Water Supply Options: The initial proposals for water quality management typically
called for the construction of a large number of wastewater treatment plants. These proposals were
reassessed in the light of several options, including: (a) discharge of wastewater through conveyance
pipes or tunnels without treatment to rivers where the assimilative capacity was adequate; and (b) the
combination of several wastewater streams to be intercepted and conveyed to one large treatmnent plant.
Additional water quality modeling and cost comparison were undertaken as part of project preparation to
determine the optimal level of treatment to meet health standards and water quality targets.
Nongovernment Sources of Funding: Alternatives to pub][ic financing of the proposed investments were
considered, in particular the scope for private sector financing of urban infrastructure. However, private
sector participation, e.g., in form of "build, operate, transfer" (BOT) schemes, is currently limited to a
pilot program under the supervision of the national State Development Planning Commission (SDPC).
Chengdu is one of five pilot sites where private investors are financing a bulk water supply project under
the auspices of an Asian Development Bank Technical Assistance Project. SPG is awaiting the outcome
of this pilot initiative before entering into other private sector arrangements. Hence, the option for private
sector financing is not available for the proposed investments, but may be considered for future
investments.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank Group and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision
Sector issue                               Project                  (Form 590) Ratings (Bank-
financed projects only)
Implemen-    Develop-
tation prog-  ment objec-
ress (IP)   tive (DO)
Bank Group-financed
Urban Environment: Water, wastewater,   China:Yunnan Urban Environment Project         S             S
sanitation, solid waste, industrial pollution  (Ln 4055/Cr 2892)
Urban Environment: Water, wastewater,   Guangxi Urban Project:                         S             S
sanitation, solid waste, industrial pollution  (Ln 4348/Cr 3097)
Wastewater & tariff reform policy       China: Second Shanghai Sewerage Project       HS            HS
(Ln 3987-CHA)
Formulation of multicomponent intervention    China: Shandong Environment Project      S             S
strategy                                (Ln 4237-CHA)
Delivery, management and operations of  Shanghai Environment Project                   HS           HS
large-scale urban water and wastewater  (Ln 371 1-CHA)
systems. Environmental pollution mitigation
through time-bound action plans
Provision and management of basic services to  Third Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Project  HS     S
low-income communities                  (Cr.N0270)
Other development agencies
The Asian Development Bank has supported a  Reported to have been generally successful
range of investment programs in the urban  investment programs.
sector of China, mainly supporting urban envi-
ronmental services, in provinces that do not
overlap with World Bank supported programs.



Page 9
.    Latest Supervision
Sector issue                               Project                  (Form 590) Ratings (Bank-
financed projects only)
Implemen-    Develop-
tation prog-  ment objec-
ress (IP)   tive (DO)
Bilateral support from a number of sources  These investnents have generally been success-
including KfW and the Governments of    fully implemented, though attention has not
Austria, Australia, Finland and Denmark, has   been paid to institutional and financial matters.
financed equipment for urban water supply,    Finance has been available mainly to support
wastewater and industrial waste treatment  equipment sourced (restrictively) from the
plants.                                 lending country.
The Department for Intemational Develop-  Performance has been reported to be satisfac-
ment-DFID (of the United Kingdom) has   tory.
focused support on institutional and financial
development needs of urban utilities, and on
broad aspects of environmental management.
The Government of Japan has financed    Performance is reported to be satisfactory.
equipment for urban water supply, wastewater  Financial policies are not developed, however.
and industrial waste treatment plants.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory).
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Greater Reliance on User Charges: The Operations Evaluation Department (OED) review of Bank
Group-financed water and sanitation projects has shown generally good achievement of physical targets
but less success in sustaining the financial viability of municipal service providers. Recent sector work on
China ("Urban Environmental Service Management," Report No. 13073-CHA) supports these findings,
noting the need for greater reliance on user charges, which are presently levied at levels that do not
sustain assets or institutions. The report concludes that adequate charges for water supply, wastewater and
solid waste would be affordable, induce resource conservation and create a more dependable income
stream. Hence, tariff reforms have been a centerpiece of the policy dialogue with SPG and adjustments of
tariff levels are an integral part of the project design. Municipal solid waste user charges, for example,
would have to triple from present levels to provide sufficient funding for sustainable collection and
disposal operations.
Timing of Tariff Increases: Previous urban environment projects in China have frequently encountered
difficulties in implementing agreed tariff increases in a timely manner, sometimes delaying project
implementation by six months or more. Tariff increases often represent politically difficult decisions for
local governments, but are critical for the sustainability of the project. To avoid such delays after loan and
credit effectiveness and to ensure that changes meet the approval of all relevant authorities, this project
design has required that tariff adjustments be implemented during the preparation stage, not later than
negotiations.
Support for Institutional Management. The establishment of financially autonomous water utility
enterprises to develop and manage urban services is a long-standing Chinese practice and avoids many of
the management difficulties of publicly owned utilities in other countries. However, wastewater collection
and treatment services have only recently been given the same autonomy, generally by absorbing the
existing drainage bureaus and construction management units already active in the sector into separate
enterprises. The prior technical experience of these bureaus would undoubtedly permit a smoother
transition, but high levels of technical assistance would be needed to strengthen the new enterprises'
managerial, financial and operational capacities. Tariffs, charges and reallocation of existing taxes and
urban construction charges would help ensure adequate funds for operations and management. The



Page 10
establishment of financially autonomous utilities prior to project implementation has provided additional
time for management and operational issues to be clarified. During project formulation and preparation,
detailed analyses of IST needs were undertaken; this led to the design of a comprehensive IST component
to be included in the project, which would assist the project utilities address the challenges described
above.
Sufficient Preparation Time and Budget. Experience in China has shown that first-time projects
demand significantly greater time and monetary investments in the preparatory and initial implementation
phases than those managed by experienced project offices. As this would be the Bank Group's first
involvement in the urban environmental services sector in Sichuan, a longer lead time has been needed to
develop clear understandings of institutional and service delivery arrangements. Adequate resources were
allocated by government for preparation. DFID provided key support during preparation; further
assistance was provided in the project formulation stage by the governments of Austria, Australia, Canada
and Denmark. Technical assistance would be available ior construction supervision and the building of
strong institutions. The experience gained in this project would ensure smoother implementation for later
urban environment interventions in the province.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Sichuan Province has demonstrated its commitment to the proposed project through the following: (a) the
formation of a leading group to give policy guidance; (h) the establishment of provincial and municipal
project management offices to prepare and coordinate t:he proposed investments; (c) the investment of
provincial resources in the preparation of feasibility studies; (d) the hiring of the Southwest Engineering
Design Institute as lead consultant; (e) the high priority attached by the national and provincial
governments to addressing the deteriorating water qua]ity in the rivers of Sichuan, for example, the
establishment of the Tuo River Rehabilitation Commission; and (f) adjustments to water tariffs, and
implementation of wastewater tariffs for both domestic and nondomestic users, prior to the
commencement of project implementation.
5. Value added of Bank Group support in this project:
The Bank Group brings considerable international experience to assist in policy formulation and
investment program design, in particular in economic and financial analysis and systematic consideration
of alternatives. Bank Group assistance would also draw on our growing experience in addressing regional
environmental issues, gained from urban environmental projects throughout China (Hubei, Yunnan,
Shandong Provinces and others). Bank Group assistance in the design phase has enabled SP to widen the
scope of possible options and find more cost-effective solutions than the ones it originally considered.
Bank Group involvement would enhance the design and construction quality control of the physical
investments, accelerate institutional strengthening and training, and provide additional funds for sector
needs. Through its involvement in Chongqing in a similar urban environmental project, the Bank Group
can substantially contribute to the introduction of region-wide water resource management in the upper
Yangtze River Basin.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessmnLents are in the project file, see Annex 10)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[Y] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV = n.a.; EIRR = 10-12%
[Y] Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
[n.a.] Other: not applicable



Page 1 1
For the water supply components, EIRRs were estimated at 10-12 percent; cost-effectiveness analyses
were conducted for the wastewater and solid waste management components.
The objectives of improving infrastructure and safeguarding the environment and public health in Sichuan
are broad and, in the initial stages of project identification, a long list of 147 projects was identified by the
SPMO. A screening process reduced this long list by about half and a formal ranking process was then
used to select 17 projects for detailed consideration. At the same time, the environmental analysis found
that the greatest environmental problems were not in the main stream of the Jinsha/Yangtze River but in
the tributaries in the Chengdu Plain. Of the seven tributaries, it was agreed to focus on the Min and Tuo
Rivers. These are the most heavily polluted river basins in central and western China; they provide a
defined scope for the project area, are centered on the urban area of Chengdu, and include the main
municipalities having candidate sub-projects.
The long-term environmental objectives for the rivers are to achieve Class III Standard (according to
Chinese national regulations), which would allow the use of the rivers as a source for drinking water
supply (with treatment). The economic benefits of improving the river quality to Class IJI have not been
calculated because large amounts of data would be required and these are not available. However,
estimates of the reductions in domestic water supply treatment costs that would accrue from using better
quality river water are of the order of tens of millions of yuan annually. In addition, there would be
increases in agricultural productivity from improvements in the water quality. In order to assist prioritize
investments in river water quality protection, a River Basin Pollution Index was developed to measure the
relative cost effectiveness of different options.
The eleven municipalities in the river basins that had candidate projects were also ranked for inclusion in
the project on the basis of four criteria: rate of urban growth, economic growth prospects, demand for
environmental infrastructure and ability to pay for the infrastructure. Combining the analysis of priority
cities for infrastructure investment with the ranking in terms of river improvement, the number of
potential infrastructure components was narrowed down to eight projects in five cities.
Estimates have been made for each component of the average incremental cost (AIC), financial rates of
return and affordability. The AICs for the water components range from approximately Y 0.8 to Y 1.6/mi3.
The highest AIC is for the Zigong scheme where major works are required because of the lack of
available sources for expansion. For the wastewater schemes, the AICs range from Y 0.2 to Y 0.8/m3,
although these figures are not all comparable since different levels of treatment are being provided in each
municipality.
On current income levels, the tariff levels required to achieve SPG's financial objectives for the schemes
are broadly affordable; in the two municipalities where more than one component is proposed, the
cumulative impacts would need to be considered when annual tariff adjustments are implemented.
2. Financial: (see Annexes 2, 3 and 7)              NPV = n.a.               FRR = 9-11.5%
Provincial fiscal on-budget receipts and expenditures in 1998 totaled about Y 41 billion ($5.0 billion
equivalent) and Y 33 billion ($4.0 billion equivalent), respectively. On-budget receipts and expenditures
are projected to grow at about 9 percent and 8 percent per year in current terms, respectively. SPG expects
to pass on about 98 percent of the Bank loan and IDA credit proceeds to the municipalities and their
subborrowers. Should the municipalities and their subborrowers be unable to fulfill their obligations, SPG
would have no difficulty in covering debt service through its own resources as the debt service
represented by the project is small compared to total provincial receipts. SPG would provide all funding
not met by (a) the proceeds of the Bank loan and IDA credit, (b) municipal contributions, and (c) funds



Page 12
generated internally by the implementing agencies. SFB has independently assessed the municipalities'
ability to generate their required counterpart funds from assured sources.
The base cost estimates of the project reflect preliminary engineering designs and price levels prevailing
in December 1998. The unit prices were derived from the following sources: (a) quotations obtained from
manufacturers and suppliers; (b) prices of goods and works from recent contracts; and (c) construction
costs according to prices published by the Central and Sichuan Governments, all adjusted for inflation.
Physical contingencies have been applied to base costs, as follows: civil works-12 percent; equipment
and materials, and technical assistance-10 percent. Construction supervision services costs, estimated at
2.5 percent of the civil works and 1 percent of the materials and equipment costs of the water supply,
wastewater and solid waste management components, have been included in the project cost estimates.
Project management and engineering overhead costs of I 10 percent are also included. Price contingencies
have been applied to expenditures at projected global foreign and local inflation rates, as follows: local: 0
percent in 1999; 3 percent in 2000; 5 percent in 2001 and thereafter; foreign; 1.3 percent in 1999; 2.55
percent in 2000; 2.7 percent in 2001; 2.6 percent in 2C002; and 2.5 percent thereafter. The dollar/yuan
exchange rate has been assumed to vary in order to maintain purchasing power parity.
The financial objectives set by the municipalities for their water supply and wastewater utility companies
are to achieve full cost recovery on their operations and, in the case of the water supply companies, to
make a reasonable contribution to their capital investnent programs as well. The water supply and
wastewater companies have adjusted and implemented tariffs designed to meet these financial objectives
for 1999. Financial projections have been completed for each utility company indicating the levels of
tariffs required annually to meet the stated objectives. However, in practice, water and wastewater
companies' tariffs are adjusted only every two or three years, taking into account the tariff requirements
of other utilities, e.g., power, gas and telephone. It is possible, therefore, that in the intervening years
between tariff adjustments, the agencies may not be able to meet their annual targets. In such
eventualities, the agencies' operating revenues would need to be supplemented from the general revenues
of the parent municipality in order to remain financially viable. Solid waste management services have
traditionally been funded from the general revenues of local governments. However, where individual
users of the services have been identified, local governments have, as a policy matter, charged such users
for the services provided. Local governments expect to rely increasingly on user fees and charges to
finance these services in the future. The government departments responsible for the urban management
information systems and environmental protection and rehabilitation components would rely on
government subventions to fund their capital and operating budgets.
3. Technical:
The proposed physical investments were designed by first-class Chinese design institutes, taking into
account the latest Ministry of Construction (MOC) design standards. The engineering designs and bid
documents were reviewed by international consultants and found to be satisfactory. The technologies
involved are proven and within the capability of Chinese contractors and manufacturers if successful in
winning bids.
4. Institutional:
Executing Agencies: The water supply companies of Leshan, Luzhou and Zigong are self-funding, self-
accounting state-owned enterprises and have been in operation for some time. They have provided a
satisfactory service to their customers in spite of not always having been permitted to adjust their tariffs to
maintain financial viability. The self-funding, self-accounting, state-owned enterprise wastewater
companies of Chengdu, Deyang, Leshan and Zigong were established during project preparation; this
represents a major step in utility reform, consisent with stated national policy, and a model for the
rest of Sichuan Province. The staff of these companies was transferred from the existing municipal



Page 13
engineering administration departments responsible for sewerage and drainage services. Therefore, while
the wastewater companies would start with operations experience, they as yet lack a "corporate" culture.
Leshan's existing Environmental Sanitation Management Bureau would implement the solid waste
management component. All implementing agencies would benefit from technical assistance to be
provided under the project to help them improve, as necessary, their accounting and management
information systems, again stressing the positive steps taken and planned in utility reform and
underpinning tangible moves to market pricing.
Project Management: The SPMO, working closely with SEPB and other concerned agencies, has
arranged for the project preparation work to be completed to the satisfaction of SPG and the Bank Group.
The SPMO is being strengthened and the personnel mix adjusted to reflect the needs of the
implementation and construction phases of the project. Each city has formed, budgeted and staffed a
project management office (PMO), which has been involved throughout project formulation and
preparation; it is expected these PMOs, with support from the SPMO, would significantly enhance project
launch and subsequent implementation.
5. Social:
Land acquisition would be needed for nine subprojects (four water, four wastewater and one landfill, as
well as needing temporary land and the economic rehabilitation of affected people. About 1,350 mu (90
hectares-ha) of land would need to be acquired for construction of the project components, and a total of
312 households would require resettlement. Details of the resettlement proposals are given in Annex 6.
Resettlement impacts were identified through a detailed census and socioeconomic survey of the affected
people. Based on the survey, a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), addressing issues related to entitlements
of affected people in all categories of impacts has been prepared. The RAP contains an adequate
description of the institutions responsible for resettlement implementation, the costs and sources of
funding to complete the resettlement program, the mechanism for grievance redress and the arrangements
for monitoring and evaluating the progress and results of the process. A detailed implementation schedule
that would require the completion of all compensation and resettlement activities sufficiently before the
proposed start of construction of each subproject has also been prepared; the RAP was reviewed by the
Bank prior to negotiations and found satisfactory.
As the resettlement requirements of the project are relatively small, the resettlement program is not likely
to encounter any significant problems. There is adequate institutional capacity and commitment to
complete resettlement successfully. Regular internal and external monitoring of resettlement would
ensure timely review of the progress of resettlement implementation.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category [X] A   [I  B   []  C
An environmental assessment (EA) has been carried out for SUEP. During preparation and evaluation,
national procedures including those set out in China's Circular on "Strengthening Environmental Impact
Assessment Management for Construction Projects Financed by International Financial Organizations
(June 1993)," as well as those required by the Bank Group, were diligently followed. The EA documents
such as Environmental Assessment Report and Executive Summary have been prepared, incorporating
Bank Group comments, and found to be satisfactory. A detailed annex covering environmental
assessment and impact has been prepared (Annex 5), which summarizes the findings of the Chinese EAs
on the various components and reflects the appraisal mission findings.
Potential Impacts: The environmental impact of the project is, on balance, substantially positive and the
benefits greatly outweigh the negative impacts. The project would reduce pollution loads in the Min and
Tuo Rivers and allow for the replacement of poor-quality water supply sources. The Leshan solid waste



Page 14
management component would greatly improve waste haLndling, transport and disposal practices. Major
potential impacts during the construction phase include excavation, dust, noise, spoil disposal and
disruption of urban services. Impacts during the operational phase include sludge disposal, noise, odors
and generation of landfill gas and leachate.
Mitigation Measures: The EA specified the appropriate imitigation measures, environmental monitoring
plans, institutional arrangements and training and equipment requirements, and the cost estimate of
implementation of the mitigation measures. Major mitigation measures include controls on construction
practice, careful siting of facilities with appropriate buffer zones and controls on noise.
Public Consultation and Feedback: During the EA work, local people were consulted. The following
approaches were used for public consultation: (a) consultation meetings with local government
representatives; and (b) questionnaire analysis of public; opinion, supplemented by interviews. Major
concems from the public were resettlement-related issues and noise and air pollution during the
construction phase.
Information Disclosure: The Environmental Assessment Report (EA) and Executive Summary were
submitted to the Bank Group on December 21, 1998; the draft Resettlement Action Plan was submitted
on December 11, 1998. Both reports were reviewed and found satisfactory (copies are in the Bank
Group's Public Information Center and in the Project files--see Annex 10).
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The major beneficiaries would be the majority of the population of Chengdu, Deyang, Leshan, Luzhou
and Zigong, who would enjoy enhanced water supply, a cleaner environment through wastewater
collection, treatment and disposal and improved collection of wastes and their environmental disposal.
The implementing agencies would also benefit through the IST incorporated into the project. The cities
would benefit, overall, through benefits emanating to improved city management from the
implementation of cost-effective tariffs and charges for these services.
b. Other key stakeholders:
During the EA preparation, local communities were consulted through meetings with local government
representatives, and public opinion questionnaires supplemented by interviews.
8. Social Impact and Benefits:
The project has been designed to yield social benefits to avll income groups, in particular to those groups
currently not served with basic urban services. Ongoing studies by specialist consultants (funded by
DFID) would derive baselines from which to quantify these indirect benefits.
Project focus on environmental service provision to meet basic needs would provide a sustainable and
equitable basis for underpinning economic development of the lower income and underserved target
groups. The Willingness to Pay Study (see Project File) ascertained the high priority given by proposed
project beneficiaries to affordable improvements in urban services, and to the consequent health and well-
being betterment. A willingness to pay for these improvements was confirmed.



Page 15
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is expected to be sustainable in three respects: (a) financially; (b) institutionally; and (c) in
achieving its development objectives. Tariff reforms would enhance the financial viability of municipal
service providers. Institutionally, the creation of financially autonomous wastewater companies and
continued technical assistance for the participating institutions would strengthen utility management and
water quality monitoring capacity. Finally, the project addresses an issue of high priority to both the local
and the national governments: vital self-interest in achieving environmental conditions necessary for
sustained economic growth, which would be a strong motivation to continue implementing the long-term
water resource strategy.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                  Risk Rating             Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Complementary pollution reduction in    M         Monitoring and resource management information sys-
industry and agriculture delayed                  tem that clearly tracks sources of pollution and non-
attainment of quality targets
Pollution abatement action plan to be incorporated into
the project
From Components to Outputs 
Autonomy of wastewater organizations    M         Companies created before negotiations
Financial sustainability of water,      M         Tariffs and charges covenanted; financial performance
wastewater and solid waste services               to be core activity of project supervision
Overall Risk Rating                     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Public reaction to (a) water and wastewater tariff increases to maintain the financial viability of the water
supply and wastewater companies; and (b) increases in fees and charges for solid waste collection and
disposal.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition:
* Execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the project municipalities and their water and
wastewater companies, satisfactory to the Bank Group.
2. Other:
Disbursement Condition
* The signing of contracts with consultancy firms for (i) institutional and financial technical assistance,
and (ii) construction supervision services and quality control, as a condition of disbursement of the
civil works category.



Page 16
Implementation Covenants
At negotiations, assurances were obtained from SP that it would:
* implement or cause to be implemented the Institutional Strengthening and Training component in
accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Bank Group and discuss and agree any revisions with
the Bank Group;
* carry out or cause to be carried out the resettlement of persons affected by the project in a manner and
according to the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) satisfactory to the Bank Group;
* cause the project agencies to carry out, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank Group, the findings of the
Environmental Assessment and related implementation program;
* maintain the SPMO and the municipal project management offices, and urban management
information systems (UJMIS) centers throughout implementation, with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank Group, and with competent staif in adequate numbers for the duration of the
project;
* carry out or cause to be carried out the time-bound Indu.strial Pollution Control Action Plan (IPCAP)
for the Min and Tuo river basins in accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Bank Group and
discuss and agree any revisions with the Bank Group;
*  arrange for the Leshan and Luzhou water supply companies to carry out their time-bound investment
programs to strengthen their water supply distribution systems with respect to the project investments.
Financial Covenants
At negotiations, assurances were obtained from SP that it would:
* cause the municipalities to onlend part of the loan proceeds to their respective water and wastewater
companies, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group;
* cause Leshan Municipality to use the credit proceeds toward implementing its part of the
environmental protection and rehabilitation subcomponent;
* operate financial matters in accordance with the guidelines set out in the FMS Manual, and arrange
for the following annual audits to be submitted to the Bank Group within six months after the end of
the financial year, commencing with fiscal year 2000: (i) audit of the project accounts maintained by
the Sichuan Project Management Office (SPMO), the Leshan Environmental Sanitation Management
Bureau (LESMB), CHB, UMIS; (ii) audit of the Special Account; (iii) audit of statements of
expenditures (SOEs); (iv) audits of the financial statements of Chengdu Drainage Company (CDC),
the Deyang Sewage Treatment Corporation (DSTC), the Leshan Water Supply General Company
(LEWSGC), the Leshan Wastewater Treatment Company (LEWTC), the Luzhou Water Supply
Company (LUWSC), the Zigong Water Supply Comnpany (ZWSC and the Zigong Wastewater
Treatment Company (ZWWTC);
*  commencing with fiscal year 2000, cause LEWSGC, LUWSC, and ZWSC to (a) produce revenues
from their water supply operations sufficient to cover operations and adequate maintenance costs
(before depreciation), increases in working capital, debt service, and 20 percent of the average capital
expenditures made in a three-year period (the year preceding the reference year, the reference year
itself, and the year after the reference year); and (b) incur no additional debt without the Bank
Group's agreement, unless a reasonable forecast shows that it would have a debt service coverage of
at least 1.3 times;
*  commencing with fiscal year 2000, cause CDC, DSTC, LEWTC and ZWWTC to (a) produce
revenues from wastewater operations sufficient to cover operations and maintenance costs (including
depreciation), and the amount by which debt service requirements exceed the provision for
depreciation; and (b) incur no additional debt without the Bank Group's agreement, unless a
reasonable forecast shows that the entity would have a debt service coverage of at least 1.3 times;



Page 17
* cause the water supply and wastewater companies to prepare, before September 30, 2000, and in each
of the following fiscal years, forecasts satisfactory to the Bank Group, (a) to review whether they
would meet the covenanted requirements set forth above in such year and the following fiscal year,
and (b) to furnish the results of such reviews to the Bank Group; if any such reviews would show that
the entity would not meet the requirements set out above, the entity would take all necessary
measures, including adjustments to the structure of its tariffs and charges, in order to meet the
requirements; and
*  cause LESMB to complete, not later than July 1, 2000, a study of the fees and charges needed for full
cost recovery of solid waste collection and disposal services to industrial and commercial users, the
report of that study shall include a detailed time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank Group,
enabling such recovery comnencing January 1, 2001, and thereafter implement such action plan
taking into account the Bank Group's comments.
Reporting and Monitoring
At negotiations, assurances were obtained from SP that it would:
*  cause each implementing agency to prepare semiannual project progress reports; the SPMO would
then send a consolidated report to the Bank Group by the thirtieth of the following month,
commencing January 2000; and
*  carry out with the Bank Group a mid-term review of the project by June 30, 2003, and implement, or
cause to be implemented, agreed recommendations.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[x] 1. The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation. About 40 percent of the draft final engineering and draft bid
documents were reviewed at negotiations.
[x] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. Bid packaging has also been agreed (see Annex 8, Table C).
[x] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality; the Project Implementation Program is shown in Armex 3B.
1: Compliance with Bank Group Policies
[x] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank Group policies.
[]  [2. The following exceptions to Bank Group policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank Group policies.]
Team Leader: Geo    Ra                          Country Director: Yukon Huang
Sector Manager: Keshav Va



Page 18                                      ANNEX I
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DE,SIGN SUMMARY
China: Sichuan Urban Environment Project
Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance           Monitoring and               Critical
Indicators'              Evaluation              Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal: Sector Indicators:      SectDr/Country Reports:  (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
Safeguard the environment Ambient environment con-  EPB statistics for environ-
and public health through   ditions in Sichuan Province mental quality
alleviation of urban environ- improved
mental infrastructure con-
straints                Environment-related health  Bureau of Public Health
problems reduced
Urban environmental infra- Statistics of the Construction
structure supply meets   Commission
demand
Project Development      Outcome/Impact           Project Reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
Protect quality of Sichuan's Reduction of pollution load  Statistics of SEPB  Parallel efforts to manage
rivers and provide safe  from urban sector                                industrial wastewater pollu-
water on a sustainable basis                                              tion are successfully imple-
to its growing population                                                  mented
Expansion of supply of safe Statistics of Water Supply  Funds availability to fmnance
water to meet urban demand Companies              distribution network exten-
sions
Improvement of financial   Audited financial state-  Timely authority to adjust
viability of municipal ser-  ments, annual fmancial    tariffs to maintain viability
vice providers          projections
Output from each         Output Indicators:       Project Reports:        (from Outputs to
component:                                                                 Objective)
Market-oriented pricing and Ratio of actual tariff to rec- Water Supply Co. statistics; Govemment maintains tar-
financial management intro- ommended cost recovery   Project supervision missions iffs at cost recovery levels
duced in participating muni- tariff increased                              for all utilities
cipal service providers in
Sichuan
Infrastructure capacity for  Volume increase for: waste- Sichuan and company sta-  Parallel collection systems
wastewater, water supply,  water collected, safe water  tistics and periodic reports  implemented; connections
and waste management    supplied; and waste safely                         made to water supply
increased                disposed                                          network
Cost-effective wastewater   Small and medium indus-   Statistics of Sichuan EPB.  Pilot experience dissemi-
pollution abatement mea-  tries adopt clean technology, IWPAAP is implemented in nated and adopted through-
sures undertaken in industry and implement end-of-pipe  accordance with scope and  out Sichuan's industry
treatment                timing agreed            sector; effective regulation
'Baseline and target levels of achievement to be agreed at the Project Launch Workshop, scheduled for late 1999.



Page 19                                       ANNEX 1
Hierarchy of Objectives     Key Performance            Monitoring and               Critical
Indicators'              Evaluation               Assumptions
Water quality monitoring    Long-term water resource   Sichuan EPB; draft and final Long-term strategy is being
and management capacity  strategy developed and staff strategy documents    implemented
strengthened             trained in water quality
monitoring
Project Components/      Inputs: (budget for each   Project Reports:         (from Components to
Subcomponents:           component)                                          Outputs)
Wastewater management   Achievement of planned    Project Progress Reports,   Wastewater companies are
activities (see Annex 3)    supervision missions, data  established and sustained
of companies and SEPB
Water Supply             Percent of sewage collected Project Progress Reports,   Distribution network
and treated, as required  supervision missions, data  extended, tariffs adjusted to
of companies and EPB     maintain financial viability
Solid waste management   Supplies increased to meet  Project Progress Reports,   Adequate funding through
demand, water quality    supervision missions      increased user fees and
improved                                           budgetary allocation
Urban management         Service area extended,    Project Progress Reports,   Sharing of data by interested
information systems      increased collection effi-   supervision missions   agencies, avoidance of
ciency, percent of waste                           duplication
land filled in
Environmental protection   Development of operational Project Progress Reports,   Sufficient counterpart funds
and rehabilitation       systems, inproved base    supervision missions      available on time
mapping
Institutional strengthening   Implementation of Imme-   Project Progress Reports,   Government commitment to
and training             diate Measures Action Plan  supervision missions    financing "intangibles"
Improvements in accounting
and MIS, numbers of man-
agement and staff trained, in
system operations and
financial management



Page 20                                 ANNEX 2
ANNEX 2: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
China: Sichuan Urban Entvironment Project
1.   The Chengdu Plain in Sichuan Province which has a population of over 110 million people, is
drained by the principal tributaries of the Yangtze, Min and Tuo Rivers; these flow south and discharge
into the Yangtze River, China's main water resource. These rivers and their tributaries have become
seriously polluted by untreated industrial and domestic wastewater discharges, and by agricultural runoff.
Pollution in the Tuo is particularly bad as the catchment population accounts for almost 20 percent of the
provincial total. These river systems exhibit extremes in their flow regime, varying between floods during
May through September and dwindling to virtually no flow in some rivers during October through April,
adversely impacting water supply sources, and causing degraded environmental conditions during low
flows.
2.   The Sichuan Provincial Government has embarked on a comprehensive program of environmental
measures to address environmental degradation and water pollution. An Urban Water and Wastewater
Resources Study, including river water quality modelirng, and an Urban Environmental Infrastructure
Study have been carried out to formulate environmental strategies for the region, focusing on 11 cities in
Sichuan and 3 in Chongqing. Based on these studies, environmental projects, shown in parentheses, have
been prioritized for the cities of Chengdu (wastewater) and Leshan (water supply, wastewater and
municipal solid waste) in the Min River Basin, and Deyang (wastewater), Zigong (water supply and
wastewater) and Luzhou (water supply) in the Tuo River Basin.
3.   A comprehensive package of investments are proposed for the cities of Chengdu, Deyang, Leshan,
Luzhou and Zigong under the Sichuan Urban Environment Project. They include: Water Supply and
Wastewater Systems Development, Municipal Solid Waste Management, Urban Management
Information System, Environmental Protection and Rehabilitation, and Institutional Strengthening and
Training; the project cost inclusive of contingencies is estimated at about Y 2,802 million ($326 million).
Chengdu Wastewater
4.   Existing Situation. Chengdu, the capital of Sichluan Province, is an important administrative
center. It has an urban area of 118 square kilometers (km2) with a population of 1.8 million. The
population is projected to increase to 2.5 million by 2010. The city is facing major pollution of its rivers.
Most of the municipal and industrial wastewater enters the river system without treatment, causing
significant pollution within the city. Of significance are the levels of pollutants of industrial origin. Oils,
phenols and toxic metals are all present in high concentrations, arising from industrial discharges.
Biological oxygen demand (BOD) and ammonia concentrations indicate that the water quality of the
Chengdu rivers, the Min, Fu, Nan and Sha, are badly polluted. BOD and ammonia concentrations in the
downstream reaches of the Min River are expected to rise to 18 milligrams per liter (mg/l) and 10 mg/l.
There are two treatment plants serving two of the five drainage areas, and one is currently inoperative.
5.   At present, only 186,000 cubic meters per day (m3/d) of the 850,000 m3/d of wastewater produced
in Chengdu are treated in two treatment works. The city central zone is served by the Sanwayao with a
capacity of 100,000 m3/d at the wastewater treatment works located in the south of the city. Extension of
these works by another 300,000 m3/d is currently under way. The main eastern drainage zone, which has a
large service area of 183 kM2, has a wastewater treatment plant of 86,000 m3/d capacity at Shizhishan
with primary treatment, but is not presently operated.
6.   Proposed Wastewater Subcomponent (Y 809,8 million; $93.2 million). The proposed
subcomponent will comprise the following works:



Page 21                                 ANNEX 2
*  A 6.7 km interceptor sewer of 2,400 millimeters (mm) connecting to the termination of the existing
sewerage system near the junction of the Second Ring Road, to the site of the proposed Chengdu
No. 2 wastewater treatment works;
*  The No. 2 wastewater treatment works with a capacity of 300,000 m3/d;
*  A 2,600 mm outfall, 0.7 km long, from the treatment works; and
*  A program of secondary sewer construction, including link sewers.
Leshan Water Supply
7.   Existing Situation. Three water treatment plants with a combined capacity of 85,000 m3/d are
currently operated to serve a total population of about 370,000. One plant of 15,000 m3/d capacity can
only be used when river flows are high, as abstraction is downstream of the pollution sources. The water
distribution system comprises about 53 km of mains of diameters varying from 150 mm to 800 mm, and
does not cover the entire city. The distribution system is in urgent need of rehabilitation and
strengthening, and pipe failures are reported to be frequent. There are two high-level reservoirs with a
combined capacity of 2,500 cubic meters.
8.   Present supplies are inadequate to meet present and future water demand. Extremely poor water
quality in the Min River has necessitated the development of sources in the Dadu and Qingyi Rivers.
These rivers have large dry-season flows. It has been estimated that by the year 2010, the water demand
in Leshan will have risen to a value in the range of 360,000 to 390,000 m3/d. This implies a need for an
additional supply of 200,000 m3/d by the year 2010. Studies indicate that it is feasible to develop an
additional source from the Qingyi River. It is proposed to develop the new source in two phases. The
existing No. 3 treatment works will be extended in 2005 to provide an additional 50,000 m3/d, and next
augmentation in 2010 will provide an additional 100,000 m3/d.
9.   Proposed Water Supply Subcomponent (Y 196.0 million; $22.8 million). The first phase
financed under the project will have a capacity of 100,000 m3/d. The subcomponent will comprise the
following works:
*  An intake from the Qingyi at Ganyan of capacity 110,000 m3/d;
e  A 1,100 mm raw water transmission main 3 km long, to the treatment plant;
*  The water treatment plant at Guliba of capacity of 100,000 m3/d;
a  Treated water pumping station;
*  Treated water transmission mains comprising 10 km of pipes of 600 mm, 800 mm, and 1,000 mm;
*  Distribution network improvements.
Leshan Wastewater
10.  Existing Situation. Leshan is situated at the confluence of three rivers, the Min, Dadu and Qingyi.
It has important tourist attractions of the Grand Buddha carved on a cliff, the Emei Mountain and other
historic relics. The city population is projected to grow from the present 200,000 to about 350,000 by
2010, under the low-growth scenario. All wastewater from the central area of the city is conveyed in
sewers of stone arch construction, rectangular channels or pipes discharging directly to the Min, Qingyi
and Dadu or to the Zhugongxi. There are seven large outfalls discharging to the Min River, and a further
six outfalls to the Qingyi and Dadu Rivers. The Xugongxi receives discharges from seven minor outfalls.
While some industrial wastewater is discharged to the municipal sewers, a dedicated sewer discharges
industrial wastewater from five of the largest factories to a point just downstream of the Grand Buddha.
The effects of the wastewater discharges are highly visible in the environmentally sensitive area of the
1,200-year-old Grand Buddha. At the low flow season, BOD and ammonia concentrations rise to high
levels with ammonia reaching the very high level of 4 mg/l.



Page 22                                  ANNEX 2
11.  Studies indicate that full treatment of wastewater in Leshan will provide little benefit to the quality
of the river system as a whole. However, there are othe.r local factors that make water pollution control
very important. The pollution control strategy is to intercept all wastewater in the Min andDadu Rivers,
and discharge it downstream of the confluence. In the second stage, full secondary treatment will be
provided. The total average wastewater flows are projected at 152,300 m3/d in 2010, and 224,400 m3/d in
2015 under the low-growth scenario.
12.  Proposed Wastewater Subcomponent (Y 160.7 million; $18.8 million). The proposed works
would comprise the following:
*  Reinforced concrete pipe interceptors 12.5 km in length, of diameters ranging from 500 mm to
1,500 mm;
*  A tunnel 0.85 km long under the Dadu River;
*  Twin 1,200 mm steel outfall mains, 2.3 km long;
*  Three pumping stations with nominal capacities of 130,000 m3/d, 32,000 m3/d, and one pumping
station with nominal capacity of 254,000 m3/d including preliminary treatrnent with screening and
gritting;
*  Link sewers and missing connections.
Leshan Municipal Solid Wastes
13.  Existing Situation. Present per capita solid waste generation is estimated at 0.84 kilograms per day
(kg/d), and is projected to rise to 0.96 kg/d by 2010. Low and high estimates of population projections for
2010 are 327,000 and 410,000. Solid waste generation is projected to rise from the current 196 tons/d to
between 301 and 391 tons/d in 2010. Industrial and commercial waste generation is expected to be dealt
with separately.
14.  The existing collection system relies on householders bringing their wastes to a transfer station or
collection point consisting of a variable number of stee]. bins. Handcarts are also used to transfer waste
from a small station to a bigger one. Waste is loaded by several means on to trucks, which deliver the
wastes to the existing unsanitary landfill at Ling Yun, at a distance of 7 km by road to the southeast of the
city. The age of the trucks varies from 3 to 12 years, and the older trucks are not in reliable working
condition. The landfill site incorporates end-tipping down the advancing face of a slope that is unstable,
and generates leachate at a peak rate in the wet season of up to 100 m3/d, which passes into local
watercourses. Some gas venting has been arranged.
15.  About 41 percent of the 200 tons of municipal solid waste generated is delivered to the existing
landfill. The remainder is recycled or disposed of elsewhere. Current problems concern the efficiency of
both the waste collection methods and the system for transferring waste to the landfill, as well as the
health and environmental impacts of these activities. The city plans to increase the proportion of wastes
collected and delivered to the municipal landfill to 90 percent by 2010. The current landfill is inadequate
in terms of site capacity, waste handling and environmental impacts.
16.  Proposed Solid Waste Management Subconuponent (Y 78.6 million; $9.2 million). The
proposed arrangements would aim to expand collection of wastes with different size vehicles, improve the
design of transfer stations, and transfer waste to the lanclfill through larger containers with a compaction
facility. Improvements to the existing landfill allow for collection, recirculation and treatment of the
leachate before it is discharged, and the collection and flaring of landfill gas. The existing landfill will
also be expanded in area. The project will comprise the following works and equipment supplies:



Page 23                                  ANNEX 2
*  Transfer station, vehicle storage and repair facility;
*  Landfill preparation (clay excavation) including extension;
*  Treatment works including equipment and gas disposal facility. Collection;
*  Collection and transportation vehicles with containers, and street sweeping trucks;
*  Landfill operating equipment.
Deyang Wastewater
17.  Existing Situation. Deyang situated on the northwest of the Chengdu Plain on the Mianyuan
River, has a current population of about 300,000, which is expected to double by 2010. The Mianyuan
River bisects Deyang, which is also flanked by the Shiting River. The Mianyuan River receives the vast
majority of wastewater generated in Deyang, and the Shiting receives wastewater flows from the urban
area west of the railway line. The urban section of the Mianyuan River conveys an average flow of
45 m3/s, which drops to about 0-5 m3/s during the dry season. Dissolved oxygen falls to very low levels,
and BOD and COD levels exceed 1 Omg/l and 1 7mg/l, respectively, during the dry season.
18.  The largest of the four drainage areas covers the urban center of the city, and the Mianyuan River
on the eastern boundary of this catchment is the receiving water for this drainage area. The main sewers
in this drainage area flow west to east and discharge to the river. A 11 km interceptor constructed on the
east bank of the river collects flows from the top half of the catchment. However, this interceptor is
incomplete and discharges through a single outfall halfway down the drainage area. South of the
interceptor, a number of outfalls discharge into the river. Wastewater from the drainage area on the east
side of the river discharges to the river through a number of outfalls. All domestic wastewater pass
through septic tanks prior to discharge to the municipal sewer system; there are no treatment facilities for
wastewater. Total wastewater flows of 266,000 m3/d are projected for 2010 under the low-growth
scenario
19.  Long-term plans for wastewater development aim to improve river water quality through full
secondary treatment of wastewater. Phase I of the development plan is to intercept all wastewater from
the two largest drainage areas covering the central area of the city, construct wastewater treatment works,
and improve river water quality by reduction of BOD from 60 mg/l to 30 mg/l, and ammonia by one third
from 24 mg/l to 18 mg/l.
20.  Proposed Wastewater Subcomponent (Y  276.8 million; $32.3 million). The proposed
wastewater subcomponent comprises the following works:
*  Extension of the existing box culvert interceptor a distance of 6.7 km to the proposed treatment works
site;
*  Construction of a wastewater treatment works with a nominal capacity of 100,000 m3/d;
*  Construction of a river crossing to allow transfer of wastewater from the eastern side of theMianyuan
River to the new interceptor;
*  Link sewers and missing connections.
Luzhou Water Supply
21.  Existing Situation. Luzhou is developing rapidly as a financial, commercial, and container port
city. It is situated at the junction of the Tuo and Yangtze Rivers. It is well connected by roads.
Construction within the city is going on at a fast pace, and considerable new infrastructure is being
installed. The Provincial Government has decided to develop the northern city of Fuji as the new
administrative center for the adjacent Luzian County. Additionally, new serviced land is being developed
to accommodate the new developments, in particular, Luzhou City is developing a new 460 hectare (ha)



Page 24                                 ANNEX 2
urban area at Nan Gao. Population is projected to rise, to about 384,000 in 2010 under the low-growth
scenario.
22.  The total population served by the current water supply service area is estimated at 286,000. The
urban area of Luzhou is served by three separate systems, which until recently have operated as separate
companies. The systems serve the central area and the area north of the Yangtze including Xiaoshi and
Beijiao; the area of Lantian on the south bank of the city; and the satellite towns of Anfu and Naxi.
23.  The Luzhou-Beijiao system has three treatment works with total capacity of 120,000 m3/d.
Treatment works exist in Beijiao (100,000 m3/d); Zhongshan (20,000 m3 /d), which draws water from the
Tuo River; which is heavily polluted with arsenic and volatile phenols, and cannot be used; Lantian
(6,000 m3/d) and Fuji (10,000 m3/d). Maximum water requirement for 2010 is estimated at 144,200 m3/d
based on the low-growth scenario, and includes the nevw developments of Fuji and Nan Gao.
24.  The Luzhou-Daxikuo water system has a treatment capacity of 3,000 m3/d, and purchases about
5,000 m3/d of water from the Natural Gas and Chemical Company, which has set up the infrastructure to
supply water to its employees housed within its compounds. The extemal distribution mains are owned by
the gas company, but are expected to be transferred to the newly formed Luzhou General Water Supply
Company. Total water requirements in 2010 under the low-growth scenario are projected to be
72,800 m3/d.
25.  Proposed Luzhou-Beijiao and Luzhou-Daxikou Subcomponent (Y 238.5 million; $27.8
million). The proposed works comprise the following:
* Luzhou-Beijiao. The scheme will augment water supply to the Nan Gao development zone to the
north of the city, and also expand the supply to cover Fuji city and villages to the north. The works
comprise extension of existing treatment works by 50,000 m3/d, and transmission works to deliver
70,000 m3/d to supply the additional 20,000 m3/d coming from the spare capacity of the existing
works. Specifically, works would include:
* duplication of the existing 50,000 m3/d treatment works;
* transmission mains (800 mm and 600 mm) to Nan Gao;
* transmission mains of 700 mm of length 31 km to Fuji town with a pump station en route;
* distribution mains for supply of new water;
* distribution system improvements; and
*  Luzhou-Daxikuo.. The proposed scheme comprises a new water treatment works of 50,000 m3/d
capacity, together with the necessary transmission mains. Specifically, it would include:
*  An intake/pump station on the Yangtze of capacity 50,000 m3/d, for first phase;
* A single raw water pipeline, 800 mm and 1.2 km long, to treatment works;
* A water treatment works of 50,000 m3/d capacity;
* Treated water transmission mains of 2 km of 1,000 mm, and 2 km of 500 mm;
* A reinforced concrete reservoir of 20,000 m3/d capacity;
* Refurbishment of an existing 1000 m3 tank;
* Distribution network improvements.
Zigong Water Supply
26.  Existing Situation. Historically Zigong has depended on reservoirs for municipal water supply,
such as the Changshaba, Hulukuo and Congtanyan reservoirs. Dry-weather flows in the local rivers are



Page 25                                  ANNEX 2
low. The Jinfu River, which flows through the city, has flood flows of 3,500 m3/s, but dry-season flows
fall to a few cubic meters per second. Nineteen industries have constructed their own facilities for
diversion of water from the Tuo River and the upper reaches of Fuxi River. The Fuxi is entirely
inadequate since at times the natural flow is zero, or the only flow is largely untreated wastewater. The
larger rivers in the area from which abstractions are possible-the Min, Dadu and Yangtze-are at some
distance from the city and are costly to develop.
27.  While the municipal water treatment works and distribution system  have a capacity of
230,000 m3/d, the limited resources frequently fall below this supply capacity. For a few months the
supply does not exceed 192,000 m3/d, and has to be restricted to 130,000 m3/d. The water distribution
system covers fully the city area and a part of the suburbs. There are 223 km of mains larger than
100 mm, varying between 100 and 1,000 mm, and 13 high-level reservoirs, which are supplied by booster
stations. There is an increasing frequency of pipe bursts, and leakage from the system is reported as 10
percent. The projected total water demand for 2010 under the low-growth scenario is 527,800 m3/d.
28.  Zigong plans to meet the water requirements of 2010 in two stages. The city plans to develop a new
water source from the Min River in two stages of 220,000 m3/d each.
29.  Proposed Water Supply Subcomponent (Y 574.2 million; $66.8 million). The proposed scheme
will comprise the following:
e Intake and conveyance works incorporating a 66 km long 1,600 mm pipeline;
*  Yuanbachang treatment works of 80,000 m3/d capacity, and including a treated water pump station;
e  A raw water pump station to deliver 132,000 m3/d of water through a 1,200 mm main 4 km long, to
the intake that feeds the Changtu treatment works;
*  A treated water main of 900 mm length 0.14 km, connecting Yuanbachang to the existing 800 mm
distribution main;
* An emergency facility to draw water from the Xushui to the Yuanbachang treatrnent works during
breakdowns, comprising an intake pump station and a 1,000 mm pipeline 0.17 km long;
e Treated water transmission mains of 1,200 mm 8.9 km long, to deliver water from the Changtu
treatment works to the distribution system;
* Distribution network improvements.
Zigong Wastewater
30.  Existing Situation. Zigong is situated in the south of the Sichuan basin, on the Fuxi river, a
tributary of the Tuo River. Average flow in the Fuji is high at 22 m3/s, but the mean flow in the dry
season falls to 4 m3/s. During the dry season, river water quality exceeds by 100 percent the Class IV
BOD standard, and dissolved oxygen content of the river falls below 1 mg/l, affecting drinking water
sources and creating serious environmental conditions. The city has about 128 outfalls from 12 drainage
areas that discharge treated or untreated effluent from a large number of factories, and domestic
wastewater.
31.  The existing sewerage system covers an area of approximately 37 kM2, and serves about 441,000
people, together with a number of smaller factories and the commercial sector of the city. Large
enterprises discharge wastewater directly into local watercourses through privately owned sewerage
networks and outfalls. The older urban center is served by a combined sewer system, while the newer
developed areas have separate systems. All properties are equipped with septic tanks before discharge to
the public sewers. Most of the sewer system in Zigong is very old, and levels and sizes of much of the
system are not available. The city has no wastewater treatment works, and all industrial and domestic
effluent is at present discharged to the local rivers. Wastewater from a major portion of the city is



Page 26                                  ANNEX 2
discharged to the Fuxi River through nine outfalls. Other outfalls discharge wastewater to the Weijuan,
Xushui and Zhongxi Rivers.
32.  The long-term wastewater development plan for Zigong includes full coverage of the drainage
catchments, full secondary treatment of domestic wastewater, and industrial water pollution control that
requires industries to undertake program to treat all wastewater on site prior to discharge to sewers or
watercourses according to a time-bound plan. In the first phase during 2000-05, wastewater from 8 out of
12 drainage areas, comprising about 53 percent of the urban area, will be intercepted, treated and
discharged downstream of the city.
33. Proposed Wastewater Subcomponent (Y 30.2.0 million; $35.2 million). The proposed
wastewater subcomponent would comprise the following works:
* Reinforced concrete pipe interceptor, 5.2 km long in varying diameters of 600 to 1,600 mm; steel pipe
interceptors of 2x450 mm, 90 m long; and one 1,000 mm, 90 m long to collect sewage flows from
seven major sewage outfalls;
* Pumping station at Shawan to lift the flow from an existing outfall into the interceptor;
* Secondary sewers, link sewers and missing connections;
*  Pumping station at Diajiaba to forward flows to the treatment works;
*  Steel pumping mains from the Daijiaba pumping, station to the treatment works, comprising
2x1,000 mm and a single 1,200 mm for a total length of 1.5 km;
* Treatment works of nominal capacity 80,000 m3/d.
Urban Management Information System
34.  Sichuan cities have entered a period of rapid change that will dramatically increase pressure on
municipal infrastructure managers to become more efficient, attract financing from various sources, and
serve their clientele better. Currently monitoring and planning depends largely on hard-copy maps, plans
and archives. Present management and decision-making tools were created in a time of much slower
change, fewer options, and less need to satisfy customers.
35.  The Sichuan Urban Environment Project (SUEP) creates both the need and the opportunity to
introduce new information systems, and improved planning and decision-making tools. Major new
infrastructure will be constructed as part of SUEP, and efforts will be made to improve operational
efficiencies in existing infrastructure. Improved budgeting monitoring and management will be required
to meet this challenge. There is an opportunity to equip the provincial and several municipal governments
with basic information management tools that can be built upon and extended over time to other cities.
The urban management information system (UMIS) had been designed to provide this.
36. Proposed Urban Management Information Systems Subcomponent (Y 38.1 million, $4.6
million). The proposed subcomponent would comprise the following:
* Development of a Provincial Decision Support System (PDSS) and Office Automation System
(OAS);
* Development of an Environmental Management Information System (EMIS) and a related OAS at the
provincial level;
* Establishment by Deyang of a UMIS center to coordinate development of an Urban Decision Support
System (UDSS);
* Establishment by Leshan of a UMIS to coordinate the development of an Infrastructure Operations
System (IOS) for wastewater management, including surveys of existing buried water facilities; and



Page 27                                 ANNEX 2
* Establishment by Luzhou of a UMIS center to coordinate development of a UDSS and an IOS for
water.
Environmental Protection and Rehabilitation
37.  Sichuan Province has an economically important and rich heritage including world-famous relics
and historic sites from past dynasties, and a vibrant and diverse living culture. Among the better known
are the Grand Buddha of Leshan and the archeological site of Sanxingdui. The city of Leshan has a rich
cultural history dating back 3,000 years. Across the Dadu River from the city, and set on three rocky hills
is the historic park and site of the 1,200-year-old statue of the Grand Buddha, 71 meters high above the
river, and carved into the cliffs. The Grand Buddha is a World Heritage Site. Leshan, with a growing
population of 230,000, is a center of regional commercial and industrial activities. The number of tourists
are projected to exceed the present 1,050,000 a year. The Archaeological Site of Sanxingdui is situated 8
km from the city of Guanghan on the banks of the Yaxi River. The site extends over 12 km2 and contains
the remains of an ancient city, yielding unparalleled information about the earliest civilizations to inhabit
the region, and will continue to yield information for many years to come. This site is of great cultural
significance, and provides opportunities to interpret and present the historical artistic and cultural
character and achievements of the Chinese people over four millennia. A museum constructed two years
ago receives about 360,000 visitors a year, and is projected to rise dramatically in the growing educational
and tourist markets of the area. The planning, operation and maintenance of these and other museums and
historic sites would set a valuable opportunity to extend coverage to other sites of the Sichuan and
neighboring provinces.
38.  The cultural heritage development plan will provide the framework for institutional policy
development; conservation area planning; conservation architecture and technology, the business
planning for conservation viability; and the promotion of interpretation and presentation of historic sites
and museums for the benefit of education and tourism. The activities proposed under the component will
provide a valuable model for the planning and development of museums and historic sites, and stimulate
good practice. The project would benefit local economies, strengthen the management of cultural assets,
promote tourism, and bolster the local economy.
39. Proposed Environmental Protection and Rehabilitation Subcomponent (Y 61.9 million; $7.5
million). The proposed component will comprise the following:
*  Improvements and environmental rehabilitation of infrastructure and buildings at the World Heritage
Site of the Grand Buddha, including improved access to the Grand Buddha;
*  Equipment for environmental monitoring, promotion, display and adaptation of museums and historic
sites, and information technology;
*  Consultant services for (a) training and strengthening management at Leshan, Sanxingdui and the
Chengdu Center for Restoration and Conservation of Cultural Relics, (b) monitoring and analysis of
Mahao Rock Tombs at Leshan, (c) relics restoration and analysis at the Chengdu Center, and (d)
setting up a cultural heritage information database for the Sichuan Provincial Cultural Relics Bureau.
Institutional Development, Strengthening and Training (Y 65.3 million; $7.8 million)
40.  The component would comprise a number of main composite packages of technical assistance for
the various municipalities and agencies, covering institutional development and financial management for
the water supply, wastewater and solid waste management agencies, construction supervision, and
training, together with an allowance for support for the provincial and sector city agencies, and other
programs of assistance to be further defined. Details are set out in Annex 8, Table D, showing estimated
national and international person-months and other supporting relevant information.



Page 28                                                ANNEX 2
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
IComponent       i Location    !Description                               Capacity/Size        Function
I Chengdu Wastewater
Main Interceptor  ISecond Ring  Reinforced concrete gravitype sewertocollectal,7 kmDN2400     Toextendthe 14km
sewer           IRoad to a site iwastewater discharging from a large drainage area            interceptor sewer serving the
!next to the   to convey it to a proposed new treatment works.               No. 3 drainage area to the
new WWTW                                                                    new treatment work
on the east
bank of the
1Fu River
Wastewater       I East bank of Activated sludge treatment comprising: coarse and i300,000imi/d  To treat wastewater of the
Treatment Works  , Fu River next fine screens, grit channel, primary sedimentation            No.3 drainage area of
Ito the existing ! with sludge thickening, activated sludge tanks with      'Chengdu
1WWTW        plug flow aeration using fine bubble diffused ait, an!
anoxic zone at inlet, final settling tanks with waste I
activated sludge anaerobic digestion, dewatering of            -
'digested sludge by centrifuges, and sludge disposal I
to landfill. An overflow chamber and pipe to
discharge sewage that cannot be handled at the
lworks. Final effluent standard: BOB-20 mg/I; SS-
I           ,___  30 mg/I; NH4-N-10 mg/i
Outfall          NewWWTW  Outfall to discharge eated            er       695                  To discharge trted effluet
to Fu River _m_N_60 _to the Fu River.
Leshan Water Supply
Intake           At Qingyi   !A 23 m by 26 m rectangular intake 400 lmo upstreamFor ultimate capacity of,New intake to abstract
River       of the present intake, a pumping station aid 3.1 km 220,000 m3/d. Twin DN additional water for Leshan
raw water main                             1300 collection lines
30m into river, and 2
-duty and one standby
'  fixed speed pumps
irated at 2300 1/hr for
first phase.
Raw WaterMain  ;Qingyi to    3.1 km raw water main                       DN 1100 prestressed
_ _ WTW                       _                    _       concrete
Water Treatment   Located 1.9  Pre-sedimentation, sedimentation, rapid, ravity   Tl0,0OOm31d  To augment water supplies to
Works           nkm from      filters chlorinafton and disinfection, clear water   jLeshan
!intake      basin
adjacent to
!existing
I WTW       ,,I
Treated Water    jWTW to    TTwo prestressed concrete transmission mains  DN 1000, 852 m length!To convey treated water to
Transmission Mains distribution                                           DN 800, 7.879 km    the distribution network
system                                                 length
_ _ . __ .___.__ _ ___ ................ .______ __. .. ___ .                                    .____  _ __._  .........DN 600, 1.7 km let  - h  ------ ----
Leshan Wastewater
Interceptor Sewers Along right                     iepo  12.5 km         ,DN 1500, 2199 m long To convey wastewater
land left banks ,length to convey city wastewater (total) flow of   ,DN 1250, 2401 m long ,generated in the city t a point
, of Zhigongshi 250,000 m3/d to a temporary discharge point 2 km  ,DN 1200, 1736 m long south of the famous Grand
River, right  Eon Dadu River downstream of Leshan and the  DN 1000, 915 m long  Buddha
bank of Min m   Grand Buddha, with preliminary treatment through DN 800, 3144 m long
1 River and left i screening and gritting, and including a river  DN 700, 819 m long
jbank of Dadu crossing                                  DN 600, 651 m long
River                      _                           jDN 500. 646 m long
Three Pumping    (i) At junction' (i) No. I Pumping Station with maximuri capacfit (i) 2 duty pumps and I To lift wastewater to convey
Stations         iof          130,000 m3/d, (ii) No. 2 Pumping Station with    standby, each pump    to temporary outfall
!Zhugongshi  maximum capacity 32,000 m3/d, and (iii) No. 3    rated at 2736 m3/hr at
land Min    .Pumping Station with maximum capacity of   j10.8m head, (ii) 2 duty
Rivers, (ii)   250,000 m3/d                             and I standby pumps
l along Min                                            -rated at 674 m3/hr at 7.5
'River, an (iii)                                        m head, and (iii) 4 duty
i at junction of                                        and I standby pumps
Min and                                                 rated at 2650 m3/hr at 2
I Dadu Rivers                                           meter head
Tunnel           Across Dadu i Horseshoe tunnel                           3 m by 3 m 850 m long To convey wastewater across
River                                                                       river



Page 29                                                            ANNEX 2
Component            i Location     !Description                                          Capacity/Size            'Function
Outfall              'At             A temporary outfall to the River Dadu until          2x DN 1200 steel          To discharge wastewater
l Dujiachang  .:wastewater treatment plant is constructed next       mains, 2.3 km long       downstream of the Grand
phase -Buddha
Lesan Municipal Slid Waste Management
Transfer Station     Qingguoshani. For transfer of collected wastes tolandf;il. Also       80 ton per d capacity    Waste collection and transfer
Lu in Leshan 'provided with vehicle storing and repair facility                                point
Waste Collection,   Leshan           Collection and transportation vehicles incldinu g     2.8 tone ontainer trucks For waste collection and
Vehicles                             containers and street sweeping trucks                 (3) 10 ton container   ,transfer, and street cleaning
trucks (3), containers
(3), 5 ton rear loaders
(6) 2 ton rear loaders
i(8), street sweepers (3),
5 ton street washers (3),
pedestrian sweepers
______                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(2), and repair truck
,_,__    ,,   _  __,,_,_   ,_,__,__,,_ _ _  _ 2?,  d repar t ,,c,k,. ........... ... ... ... .. ..... ................ .
Landfill Equipment At landfill    Heavy earth moving equipment landfandfill                Compactor (1),          'For moving and
excavator (1), bulldozer.consolidating wastes
(1) 5 ton trucks (3)
Landfill              7km from       Landfill extension works including leachate           Adequate for 12 years   For disposa of wastes
city            treatment and gas disposal                           i operation
.                                                            _  .   _  . ..  _   ._. _   .. ........... ._ .. _ _ _ . . __ . . _ ........................... __ .... _ _ .. _ _ _ ._ ............ ......  ......_....... ........  .   .     ................. .  ........ .  ..... _  .   .  ....... ............   .....  . ..........
Deyang Wastewater
Interceptor Sewer  !South along  i Extension of the existing box culvert interceptor a  . 15 m          by  1.5 m  box  .  To collect wastewater from
I Mianyuan      distance of 6.7 km to the proposed treatment works culvert                     No. 2 Drainage area
River
River crossing       Across          Construction of a siphon river crossing to allow the .... .. . .....'.'.   . .'"'  ."' ..'""" .... .''"''.To 'c'olect w a'tewater'fr'om "''''
Mianyuan       transfer of wastewater from the east side of the                               No. 3 Drainage area
River          Mianyuan River, into the new interceptor
Wastewater           At Beijiao,    Secondarytreatmentwith coarsebar screening,lift 100i                d             onteatw wtewater fromtwo
Treatment Works    7 km down-  ,pumping, fine screening, grit removal, anaerobic    4 anoxic tanks;                 of the largest drainage areas
stream of the  biological pretreatment tanks, eight carousal type                             covering most of the central
city           oxidation ditches built in pairs, sludge thickening,                           -urban area of Deyang
sludge dewatering using filter belt presses, and
sludge disposal to landfill
. ...                                          __ _.  ... ...    _ _ ....................... _ . _ _ _._ ....... _ . ___ .... .   ......... . ..     ............     .........................   ................  ............................................ .....................
Luzhou Water Supply
(a) Luzhou-Beijiao Water Supply Scheme
Intake Pumps         !Atexisting   ..Additiona pumping capacity to deliver new water :Three pumps 576 to   ,Toconveyadditional water
,intake pump   to treatment works                                    ,972 m3/hr at varying    to WTW
station                                                              heads
Treatment Works           seof       Replicationoofdexisting50,000             ity of      50,000n  d               Tonextendexistng 50,000
existing north |treatment works incorporating two stage              Three forwarding         m /d WTW to augment water
treatment     ,sedimentation followed by rapid gravity filtration,  pumps, 980 tol480         supply generally , and
works           chlorination and disinfection, and forwarding        m3/hr at 80 to 65 m      provide service to new
.   pumping station                                 :head for Fuji supply,   administrative capital of Fuji
'and 3 pumps rated at    and new development area of
,              !                                                     ,576 to 972 m3/d at 63 to Nan Gao
.50 m head for supply to j
!__,_,Nan Gao
Clear Wae Main   From               ,Water supply to Fuji city, comprising gravity main  To meet average             To supply treated water to
to Fuji              treatment       12.8 km to Shaun Gia pumping station, and 18km   demand of 24,000 m3/d Fuji city
plant to Fuji  pumping main to proposed 9,000 m3 Er Dau Gao   for Fuji.
'tank at Fuji                                         CI DN 700 gravity
main,
CI DN 700 pumping
main,
,                                                    I steel DN 700, 0.7 km
spur to tank, booster
pumping station, and
l9,000 m3 reservoir
Clear Water main to From             Water supply to new development zone of Nan          ,To meet average          To supply water to new
Nan Gao              treatment       Gao, comprising a pumping main, a 2,.5 km             demand of 24,000 m3 /d, development zone
.plant to Nan  ,prestressed concrete gravity main, and a reservoir  ,for Nan Gao.
Gao                                                                  Steel DN 800 pumping,
main to 2,000 m
rLeservoir



Page 30                                                      ANNEX 2
Component           Location    'Description                                       Capacity/Size         'Function
Distributiont      Within Nan  :Water distribution network of pipes varying from    89   C   N60           o supply water within Nan
Network to Nan     Gao            DN 150 to DN 600, 9.6 km long, for first phase of  1.078 km Cl DN 500,  :Gao development
Gao                dvlpetthis new development to meet needs up t2 2005    :1.839 km CI DN 400
izone                                                         :1. 168 km DN 300
:391 m CIDN 250
I                                            :2.309 ~~~~~~~~~~~km CI DN 200
2.758 km ClDN 150
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   .1  _ _ _ _ _ _.~~~~~~-.~~...---.......-~~~....-....~~~.......-.~~~.. . .--.  ....-..-.....-..--..-..-............"-....- . .-............-..................... -......... ......... .... ... .
(b) Luzhou-Daxikuo Water Supply Scheme
Intake and pumip      At Yangtze-18 m diameter intake structure, and abstaction   For ultimate capacity of~ For abstraction of water from
station            River         ;through twin DN 800 pipes                        I110,000 m3d, with    'new intake
Phase I capacity 55,000,
Three intake pumps
:rated at 318 1/hr at 65ml
____________                                                  h~~~~~~~~~~~~~ead
Raw Water Pipeline IFntake to      S-lt"eel o'r pr-estre-ss-e-dc-o'nc're-te -p-i-p-e't-o- WT W  1 2 km DN800    -----   T o- c on v-e y- ra-w- -w-a t'e-r'to
1WTW at                                                                               treatment works
Daxikou
Treatmnent Works  D5ai-kou       .Two stage sedimientation followed by rapid gravity-        ------------  Totratab-acedwae
Ifiltration, chlorination and disinfection, including   Two treated water
!treated water pumping station                   pumps, each rated at
972-1,440 mn/hr at 80-
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 m head
Treated Water     -To Naxi ndfi Trateid ;water delive-red toten'e-w 21000 d'm'--    2-.0'k km"'DN' 1000   T.o -d-eli ver treated water to
Transmission       Anifu towns  'reservoir at He Xi and to an existing tank, at   :200m DN 500            Naxi
i          Cr~~uanshan
Reservoir                       :New reservoir at He Xi to serve Naxi             '2000U Jn                o provide balancing
_____________                                                 l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,000m3i
Zigong Water Supply
Intake             'From Min   'Intake structure, 27 m diameter, and pum,,p station  'Sized for ultimate  'To abstract20,0 i3t
River 66 km                                                   :capacity of 440,000    first phase
frmZigong                                                   mn/d, and DN 1200
discharge pipe. Three
_____                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~pumps rated at 1270 I/s
Raw   aterto   roMiver        6 k  long selor prestressed precast cnrt        DN1600 steel or        To convey to existing
WTW           RiverWto       pipe to convey raw water to two WTW, including 4 'prestressed concrte    Changtu WTW, and
large river crossinigs 70 m to 80 m using pipe  ;pipes                  'proposed Yuan Ba Chang
bridges and siphons and four road cross'inWT
[132,000 mi/d diverted at distribution chiamber to
;existing Chengdu WTW to extend capacity to
120,000 mn/d (with other funding), and balance
conveyed to proposed Yuan Ba Chang]    -.
New WTW at Yuan iSouth of         Two stage sedimentation followed by rapid gravity 80,00   /             To met increased water
Ba Chang           Xushui River Ifiltration, chlorination and disinfection                                demand. [treated water
lin Zigong                                                                            :conveyed to distribution
system through existing DN
_______________                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~800 distnibution main]
Treated Wae1rm                    Tanmsino6tetdwtrfrmetne WWD    20 89k                            -ogT  convey treated water to
Transmission Main  Changtu        at Changtu WTW (financed under other funding) to.                       distribution network
WTW to    'distribution system
~System
Standby Intake at   nZiog         Intake structure 12.5 m diameter caissoni, intake   .0.4 km DN 1200     ForTuse in emergency
Xushui River                      pming station, and delivery main to ijilet      'delivery main. Capacity conditions on pipeline
chamber                                          up to 88.000 m`/d with  closure
two pumps each 509
I/sec at 26 m head
Zigong Wastewater
Interceptors      IFrom           R einforced concrete pipe itreos5.kmln,DN60,.2km                        Tcoltwaeaerfm
Shitanba and !in varying diameters of DN 600 to DN 1600 to     DN 1000, 2.1 1 kmi     the drainage areas
IRenheqiao to  collect sewage from seven major sewage outfalls   DN 1200, 1.56 km
Wushiti to                                                    DN 1400, 1.29 km
____________ I Daijiaba PS                                                   ;DN 1600, 2.72 km
River Crossing -to  At   iqio-  ,St-eel p-ipe inte-rce-pt-or-to c-onv-e-y .-w.a-s-t.ew,at-er .f.rom ....i2xDN 450, 90 m  To convey wastewater fromn
Connect Outfall To IBridge       :area across Xin Qiao bridge to intercepltor      I xDN 1000, 90 m       outfall to interceptor
Inteceptor



Page 31                                                ANNEX 2
Component        I Location   Description                                 'Capacity/Size        Function
River Crossing to   At Xinqiao   Steel pipe interceptor to convey wastewater from   2xDN 450, 90 m  To convey wastewater from
Connect Outfall To Bridge      area across Xin Qiao bridge to interceptor  IxDN 1000, 90 m      outfall to interceptor
Interceptor      |
Lift Pumping      At Shawan   Lift pump staon to ift wastewater from outfall at   10m/d        ;To lift wastewater from an
Station          iChainage 1240                                           .Two pumps            outfall at level lower than
._______       __. _.interceptor
Final Pumping     At Daijiaba   Pump station with grab coarse screens to convey all Maximum discharge of To convey total wastewater
Station and      near Fuxi   .wastewater collected to treatment works.    .144,000 m3/d.        collected to WWTW
Overflow          River       :Screenings removed to landfill.            ;Four submersible
pumps (one standby)
each rated at 2004
M /hr for a delivery
'head of 25 m.
Siphon           rUnderFuxi  'Siphon under 100 m wide river to convey     '2xDN 1000 steel pipes, To convey total wastewater
River near   wastewater to treatment works                0.9 km              across river
. WWTW      ._I_.-
Wastewater        Across the   Wastewater treatment comprising: fine screening,  maximum discharge    To treat wastewater to river
Treatment Works  river from   grit removal, extended aeration with fine bubble  !144,000 m3/d, Average discharge standards
Daijiaba PS   diffused air (4 tanks), sludge thickening, sludge   IDWF 80,000 m3/d
dewatering using filter belt presses, and sludge
disposal to landfill                       i



Page 32                                      ANNEX 3
ANNEX 3A: ESTIMATE:D PROJECT COSTS
China: Sichuan Urban Environment Project
Project Cost By Component                        Local     Foreign      Total
$ million
Project Component 1-Min River Basin Water Quality Recovery
Chengdu Wastewater                                                61.0        17.1       78.0
Leshan Water Supply                                               14.0         5.0       19.0
Leshan Wastewater                                                 11.5         4.2       15.7
Leshan Solid Waste Management                                      6.7         1.2        7.9
Project Component 2-Tuo River Basin Water Quality Recovery
Deyang Wastewater                                                 20.3         6.9       27.2
Luzhou Water Supply                                               16.8         6.3       23.1
Zigong Water Supply                                               41.5        14.5       56.0
Zigong Wastewater                                                 21.9         7.5       29.4
Project Component 3-Urban Management Information Systems
Operations Management Support System (OMSS)                        2.9         1.0        3.9
Project Component 4-Environmental Protection and Rehabilitation        4.5         1.9        6.4
Project Component 5-Institutional Strengthening, Training and          1.3         5.4        6.7
Construction Supervision
Total Base Cost                                             203.2        71.0      273.3
Physical Contingencies                                                18.3         7.7       26.0
Price Contingencies                                                   19.2         7.3       26.5
Total Project Costs                                         239.8        86.0      325.8
Interest during construction                                           0.0        19.4       19.4
Front-end fee                                                          0.0         1.5        1.5
Total Financing Required                                    239.8       106.9       346.7
Local     Foreign      Total
Project Cost By Category                                 $ million
Works                                                                121.6        52.1      173.7
Goods                                                                 53.3        23.9       77.2
Services                                                               6.3         7.1       13.4
Land acquisition and resettlement                                     32.0         0.0       32.0
Construction supervision services                                      1.5         3.0        4.5
Engineering and management                                            25.0         0.0       25.0
Total Project Costs                                            239.8        86.0      325.8
Interest during construction                                           0.0        19.4       19.4
Front-end fee                                                          0.0         1.5        1.5
Total Financing Required                                       239.8       106.9      346.7
Note: May not add due to rounding totals.



CHINA
SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS-PROJECT COST SUMMARY
%         % Total
Y Million                                           S Million                  Foreign       Base
Local      Foreign        Total                     Local       Foreign       Total      Exchange       Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                       828.5        355.1       1,183.5                     99.8         42.8        142.6           30           52
B. Equipment&Materials                               359.3        160.9        520.2                      43.3         19.4         62.7           31           23
C. Technical Assistance & Studies                     45.5         50.7         96.2                       5.5          6.1         11.6           53            4
D. Land Acquisition & Resettlement                   244.5            -        244.5                      29.5            -         29.5            -           11
E. Construction Supervision Services
& Quality Control                                    11.1         22.8         33.9                       1.3          2.8          4.1           67            1
F. Engineering & Management                          190.3            -        190.3                      22.9            -         22.9            -            8
Total BASELINE COSTS                      1,679.2        589.5      2,268.6                     202.3         71.0        273.3           26          100         n
Physical Contingencies                               152.1         63.8        215.9                      18.3          7.7         26.0           30           10         X
Price Contingencies                                  228.3         89.1        317.4                      19.2          7.3         26.5           28           10        CD
Total PROJECT COSTS                       2,059.5        742.3      2,801.9                     239.8         86.0        325.8           26          119
EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS-BY YEARS
(Totals including contingencies)
Y million                                                   $ million
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005   Total             1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                      - 139.3  290.7  370.6  408.4  216.7  64.8  1,490.4           -   17.0  34.9  43.5  46.9  24.3   7.1  173.7
B. Equipment&Materials                              -  31.7  38.0  62.5  140.6  252.2  156.0   680.9             -   3.9   4.6   7.3  16.1  28.2  17.1  77.2
C. Technical Assistance & Studies                 0.9  35.0  43.2  27.9   2.6   2.7          -    112.2        0.1   4.3   5.2   3.3   0.3   0.3          -   13.4
D. Land Acquisition & Resettlement                  - 171.0  87,4   6.0        -      -      -    264.5          -  20.8  10.5   0.7         -      -     -   32.0
E. Construction Supervision Services & Quality Control  -   3.2   6.2   8.7  10.4   7.1   2.9      38.5          -   0.4   0.7   1.0   1.2   0.8   0.3   4.5
F. Engineering & Management                         -  30.6  34.8  38.6  49.2  42.3  20.0    215.4               -   3.7   4.2   4.5   5.7   4.7   2.2  25.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                      0.9  410.8  500.2  514.3  611.2  520.9  243.6  2,801.9       0.1  50.0  60.1  60.4  70.1  58.4  26.6  325.8
z
z
m
x
W.



TABLE 1: DETAILED COST-CHENGDU WASTEWATER
(Y million)
Base Cost                                    Totals Including Contingencies
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 Total        1999 2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
CWW/Cl Interceptor Sewer, Secondary Drainage
Overflow Chamber & Pipe                                    -   7.5  10.0  12.5  12.5   5.0  2.5  50.0             -   8.5  11.8  15.5  16.3   6.8   3.6  62.6
CWW/C2 Improvement & Extension to
Secondary Sewers                                           -   1.3   1.3  2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6  13.1             -   1.5   1.5  3.3   3.4   3.6   3.8  17.1
CWW/C3WaterTreatmentWorksNo.3                               -  27.5  36.7  36.7  36.7  27.5  18.4 183.5            -  31.3  43.4  45.6  47.8  37.7  26.4 232.1
SubtotalCivil Works                                -  36.3  48.0  51.8  51.8  35.1  23.5 246.6            -  41.3  56.8  64.3  67.6  48.1  33.7 311.8
B. Equipment & Materials
CWW/MI Grid Vortex Separators & Clarifiers                  -     -     -     -     -   3.0   4.5   7.5            -     -     -     -     -   4.0   6.4  10.4
CWW/M2 Aeration System incl. Return/Recycle Pumps           -     -     -     -     -  27.2  40.8  68.0            -     -     -     -     -  36.6  57.6  94.2
CWW/M3 Secondary Sludge Thickening System                   -     -     -     -     -   2.4   3.6   6.0            -     -     -     -     -   3.2   5.1   8.3
CWW/M4 Primary Sludge Thickening System                     -     -     -     -     -   0.6   0.9   1.5            -     -     -     -     -   0.8   1.3   2.1        m
CWW/M5 Sludge Digestion System incl. Boilers                -     -     -     -     -  13.6  20.4  34.0            -     -     -     -     -  18.3  28.8  47.1
CWW/M6 Sludge Dewatering System                             -     -     -     -     -   3.0  4.5   7.5             -     -     -     -     -   4.0   6.4  10.4
CWW/Nl Inlet Station Pumps, Screens & Screw Conveyors       -     -     -     -     -   6.0   9.0  15.0                  -       -         -   8.1  12.7  20.8
CWW/N2 Scrapers & Stirrers                                  -     -     -     -     -   2.8   4.2   7.0            -     -     -     -     -   3.8   5.9   9.7
CWW/EI Power Supply                                         -     -     -     -   3.8   5.7     -   9.5            -     -     -     -   4.9   7.7     -  12.5
CWW/E2 High & Low Voltage Power Distribution                -     -     -     -   4.8   7.2     -  12.0            -     -     -     -   6.1   9.7     -  15.8
CWW/E3 Instrumentation, Control & Automation                -     -     -     -     -  11.8  17.7  29.5            -     -     -     -     -  15.9  25.0  40.8
CWW/SI Laboratory Equipment                                       -     -     -     -   0.2   1.4   1.6            -     -     -     -     -   0.2   2.0   2.2
CWW/SIA Tools & Equipment                                      -        -     -     -   0.6   0.8   1.4            -     -     -     -     -   0.8   1.2   1.9
CWW/SIB Vehicles                                            -   3.2     -     -     -     -     -   3.2            -   3.6     --                -     -   3.6
Subtotal Equipment& Materials                      -   3.2     -     -   8.6  84.0 107.9 203.7            -   3.6     -     -  11.0 113.0 152.3 279.8
C. LandAcquisition&Resettlement                               -  78.6  52.4     -     -     -     - 131.0            -  83.8  58.1     -     -     -     - 141.9
D. Construction Supervision Services
Civil Works                                                 -   0.9   1.2  1.3   1.3   0.9   0.6   6.2             -   0.9   1.3   1.4   1.5   1.1   0.8   7.0
Equipment & Materials                                       -   0.0     -     -   0.1   0.8   1.1  2.0             -   0.0     -     -   0.1   1.0   1.4   2.5
Subtotal Construction Supervision Services         -   0.9   1.2   1.3   1.4   1.7   1.7   8.2            -   1.0   1.3   1.4   1.6  2.1   2.1   9.5
E. Engineering & Management
Civil Works                                                 -   3.6   4.8   5.2   5.2   3.5  2.3  24.7             -   3.7   5.1   5.7   6.0   4.3   3.0  27.8
Equipment & Materials                                       -   0.3     -     -   0.9   8.4  10.8  20.4            -   0.3     -     -   1.0  10.3  13.8  25.4
Land Acquisition & Resettlement                             -   7.9   5.2     -     -     -     -  13.1            -   8.0   5.5     -     -     -     -  13.5
Total                                              - 130.9 111.7  58.3  67.8 132.8 146.2 647.6            - 141.6 126.7  71.5  87.2 177.7 205.0 809.8
z
L4



TABLE 2: DETAILED COST-LESHAN WATER SUPPLY
(Y million)
Base Cost                                     Totals Including Contingencies
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 Total         1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
LWS/CI Intake, Pumps, Screens & Raw Water Main            -   2.7   5.4   8.1   6.8   4.1      -  27.0            -   3.1   6.4  10.1   8.8   5.5      -  33.9
LWS/C2 Transmission Main                                  -     -   3.6   5.4   5.4   3.6      -  18.0            -     -   4.3   6.7   7.0   4.9      -  22.9
LWS/C3 Treatmnent Works                                   -   6.5  13.0  13.0  13.0  13.0   6.5  65.0             -   7.4  15.4  16.1  16.9  17.8   9.3  83.0
LWS/C4 Distribution Network Improvements                  -   0.4   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.4   3.8             ^   0.4   0.9   0.9   1.0   1.0   0.5   4.9
Subtotal Civil Works                             -   9.6  22.8  27.3  25.9  21.4   6.9  113.8            -  10.9  26.9  33.8  33.8  29.3   9.9 144.6
B. Equipment & Materials
LWS/El Power Supplies                                     -     -     -   1.5   3.0   0.5      -   5.0            -     -     -   1.8   3.8   0.7      -   6.3
LWS/E2 High & Low Voltage Power Distribution              -     -     -   1.8   3.6   0.6      -   6.0            -     -     -   2.2   4.6   0.8      -   7.6
LWS/E3 Instrumentation, Control & Automation              -     -     -     -   2.0   3.0      -   5.0            -     -     -      -   2.6   4.0     -   6.6
LWS/S1 Tools & Fumiture                                   -     -     -     -   0.1      -     -   0.1                  -            -   0.1     -     .   0.1        n
LWS/S1A Vehicles                                          -   1.2                              -   1.2            -   1.3                                   1 .3
Subtotal Equipment& Materials                    -   1.2     -   3.3   8.7   4.1      -  17.3            -   1.3     -   4.0  11.1   5.5      -  22.0
C. Land Acquisition & Resettlement                          -   8.5   0.9      -     -     -     -   9.4            -   9.0   1.0      -     -     -      -  10.1
D. Construction Supervision Services
Civil Works                                               -   0.2   0.6   0.7   0.6   0.5   0.2   2.8             -   0.2   0.6   0.8   0.8   0.7   0.2   3.2
Equipment & Materials                                     -   0.0     -   0.0   0.1   0.0      -   0.2            -   0.0     -   0.0   0.1   0.1      -   0.2
Subtotal Construction Supervision Services       -   0.3   0.6   0.7   0.7   0.6   0.2   3.0             -   0.3   0.6   0.8   0.9   0.7   0.2   3.4
E. Engineering & Management
Civil Works                                               -   1.0   2.3   2.7   2.6   2.1   0.7  11.4             -   1.0   2.4   3.0   3.0   2.6   0.9  12.9
Equipment & Materials                                     -   0.1     -   0.3   0.9   0.4      -   1.7            -   0.1     -   0.4   1.0   0.5      -   2.0
Land Acquisition & Resettlement                           -   0.8   0.1     -      -     -     -   0.9            -   0.9   0.1      -     -     -     -   1.0
Total                                            -  21.4  26.6  34.3  38.8  28.6   7.7  157.6            -  23.5  31.1  42.0  49.8  38.6  11.0 196.0
>
C4



TABLE 3: DETAILED CosT-LESHAN WASTEWATER
(Y million)
Base Cost                                       Totals Including Contingencies
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  Total          1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
LWW/CI Interceptor Sewer                                   -   3.0   5.9   8.9  11.8       -      -  29.5            -   3.4   7.0  11.0  15.4       -      -  36.7
LWW/C2 Outfall incl. Tunnel                                -      -  11.1  16.7  22.2   5.6       -  55.5            -     -  13.1  20.7  28.9   7.6        -  70.3
LWW/C3 Pumping Station No.3 & Equipment                    -      -   3.3   5.0   6.6   1.7       -  16.5            -     -   3.9   6.1   8.6   2.3        -  20.9
LWW/C4 Link Sewers & Connections                           -   0.3   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.3   3.1               -   0.4   0.7   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.4   4.0
SubtotalCivil Works                               -   3.3  20.9  31.1  41.2   7.8   0.3  104.6              -   3.7  24.7  38.6  53.7  10.7   0.4 131.9
B. Equipment & Materials
LWW/El Power Supply                                        -      -     -      -   0.2   0.3      -   0.5            -     -      -     -   0.3   0.4       -   0.7        X
LWW/E2 Instrumentation, Control & Automation                   -        -      -   0.1   0.4      -   0.5            -     -      -     -   0.1   0.5       -   0.7       in
LWW/Sl Laboratory Equipment                                -      -     -      -     -   0.1      -   0.1            -     -      -     -      -   0.1      -   0.1       CD
LWW/SIA Miscellaneous Equipment                                 1,-     -      -     -   1.5      -   1.5            -     -      -     -      -   2.0      -   2.0        a)
LWW;S;C VVICI1Airs                                                      -      -     -     -      -   1.0            -    i.i        -     -                    1.1
Subtotal Equipment & Materials                    -   1.0      -     -   0.3   2.3       -   3.6            -   1.1      -     -   0.4   3.1       -   4.6
C. Land Acquisition & Resettlement                            -   6.9   0.8      -     -      -     -   7.7            -   7.4   0.9       -     -      -     -   8.2
D. Construction Supervision Services
Civil Works                                                -   0.1   0.5   0.8   1.0   0.2   0.0   2.6               -   0.1   0.6   0.9   1.2   0.2   0.0   2.9
Equipment & Materials                                      -   0.0      -      -   0.0   0.0      -   0.0            -   0.0      -     -   0.0   0.0       -   0.0
Subtotal Construction Supervision Services        -   0.1   0.5   0.8   1.0   0.2   0.0   2.7               -   0.1   0.6   0.9   1.2   0.3   0.0   3.0
E. Engineering & Management
Civil Works                                                -   0.3   2.1   3.1   4.1   0.8   0.0  10.5               -   0.3   2.2   3.4   4.8   1.0   0.0  11.8
Equipment & Materials                                      -   0.1      -      -   0.0   0.2      -   0.4            -   0.1      -     -   0.0   0.3       -   0.4
LandAcquisition&Resettlement                               -   0.7   0.1       -     -     -      -   0.8            -   0.7   0.1      -      -     -      -   0.8
Total                                             -  12.4  24.4  35.0  46.7  11.4   0.3  130.1              -  13.4  28.4  42.9  60.2  15.3   0.5  160.7
z
z
m
(.



TABLE 4: DETAILED COST-LESHAN SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
(Y miltion)
Base Cost                                     Totals Including Contingencies
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 Total        1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
LSW/CI Transfer Station, Buildings/Landfill & Treatment Works  -   1.2  2.3   2.3   3.5   2.3  -  11.7          -   1.3   2.8   2.9   4.6   3.2      -  14.8
LSWIC2 Landfill Extension Earthworks                     -     -     -   1.2  2.7       -     -   3.9           -     -      -   1.5   3.6     -     -   5.0
Subtotal Civil Works                            -   1.2  2.3   3.5   6.2   2.3       -  15.6                1.3   2.8   4.4   8.1   3.2     -  19.8
B. Equipment & Materials
LSW/MI Treatment Works Equipment & Landfill Gas Facility  -     -     -   0.8   1.8     -     -   2.6           -            -   1.0   2.3     -      -   3.3
LSWISI Collection&Transportation Vehicles                -     -      -   1.7   1.7  2.6   2.6   8.7            -            -   2.1   2.2   3.5   3.7  11.5
LSW/S2 Landfill Operating Equipment                      -      -     -   1.2   1.2   3.6     -   6.0                        -   1.5   1.5   4.8     -   7.8        X
LSW/S3 Monitoring & Office Equipment                     -      -     -     -   0.1   0.1     -   0.2           -      .    -      -   0.1   0.2      -   0.3
SubtotalEquipmicent&Materials                   -      -     -   3.7   4.8   6.4   2.6  17.5                  -     -   4.5   6.2   8.5   3.7  22.9
C. Land Acquisition & Resettlement                         -   7.8  13.0   5.2      -     -     -  25.9           -   8.3  14.4   6.0      -     -     -  28.7
D. Construction Supervision Services
Civil Works                                              -   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.1      -   0.4           -   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.1      -   0.4
Equipment & Materials                                     -     -     -   0.0   0.0  0.1   0.0   0.2            -      -     -   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.2
Subtotal Construction Supervision Serices       -   0.0  0.1   0.1   0.2  0.1   0.0   0.6              -   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.0   0.7
E. Engineering & Management
Civil Works                                              -   0.1   0.2   0.4   0.6   0.2      -   1.6           -   0.1   0.2   0.4   0.7   0.3      -   1.8
Equipment & Materials                                    -    -       -   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.3   1.8           -      -     -   0.4   0.6   0.8   0.3   2.1
Land Acquisition & Resettlement                          -   0.8   1.3  0.5       -     -     -   2.6           -   0.8   1.4   0.6      -     -     -   2.7
Total                                           -   9.9  16.9  13.8  12.4  9.7   2.9  65.5             -  10.5  18.8  16.4  15.8  13.0  4.1  78.6



TABLE 5: DETAILED COST-DEYANG WASTEWATER
(Y million)
Base Cost                                     Totals Including Contingencies
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 Total         1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
DWW/CI Interceptor Sewer& Siphon                         -   2.6   5.2   7.8  10.4      -     -  26.0           -   3.0   6.1   9.7  13.6      -      -  32.3
DWW/C2 WastewaterTreatment Works                         -  12.3  24.6  36.9  36.9  12.3      - 123.0           -  14.0  29.1  45.8  48.1  16.8         153.8
DWW/C3 Link Sewers & Missing Connections                 -   0.5   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   0.5   5.2            -   0.6   1.2   1.3   1.4   1.4   0.7   6.6
Subtotal Civil Works                            -  15.4  30.8  45.7  48.3  13.3   0.5 154.2             -  17.5  36.5  56.8  63.0  18.3   0.7 192.8
B. Equipment & Materials
DWW/EI Power Supply                                      -     -     -      -   1.7   3.9     -   5.5           -      -     -     -   2.1   5.2      -   7.3            (D
DWW/E2 High & Low Voltage Power Distribution             -     -     -      -   2.1   4.9     -   7.0               -     -        -   2.7   6.6      -   9.3            LO
DWW/E3 Instrumentation, Control & Automation             -     -      -     -   3.0   7.0     -  10.0            -     -     -     -   3.8   9.4      -  13.3            0o
DWW/SI Laboratory Equipment                              -     -     -      -     -   0.6     -   0.6           -      -     -     -     -   0.8      -   0.8
DWW/SlA Miscellaneous Equipment                             -     -      -        -   2.0     -   2.0           -      -     -     -     -   2.7      -   2.7
DWW/SHB Vehicles                                         -   1.2     -      -     -     -     -   1.2           -   1.3      -     -           -      -   1.3
Subtotal Equipment & Materials                  -   1.2      -     -   6.8  18.4     -  26.3            -   1.3     -     -   8.6  24.7      -  34.7
C. Land Acquisition & Resettlement                         -  18.7  2.1       -     -     -     -  20.8            -  20.0   2.3     -      -     -     -  22.3
D. Construction Supervision Services
Civil Works                                              -   0.4   0.8   1.1   1.2  0.3   0.0   3.9             -   0.4   0.8   1.3   1.4   0.4   0.0   4.3
Equipment & Materials                                    -   0.0     -      -   0.1   0.2     -   0.3           -   0.0      -     -   0.1   0.2      -   0.3
Subtotal Construction Supervision Services      -   0.4   0.8   1.1   1.3   0.5   0.0  4.1              -   0.4   0.8   1.3   1.5   0.6   0.0   4.6
E. Engineering & Management
Civil Works                                              -   1.5   3.1   4.6   4.8   1.3   0.1  15.4            -   1.6   3.3   5.1   5.6   1.6   0.1  17.2
Equipment & Materials                                    -   0.1     -      -   0.7   1.8     -   2.6           -   0.1      -     -   0.8   2.2      -   3.2
Land Acquisition & Resettlement                          -   1.9   0.2      -     -     -     -   2.1           -   1.9   0.2      -     -     -      -   2.1
Total                                           -  39.3  37.0  51.5  61.9  35.4   0.6 225.5             -  42.8  43.1  63.1  79.6  47.4   0.8 276.8



TABLE 6: DETAILED CosT-LuzHou WATER SUPPLY
(Y million)
Base Cost                                   Totals Including Contingencies
1999 2000  2001  2002 2003 2004 2005 Total            1999 2000 2001  2002  2003  2004 2005 Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
LBWS/CI Treatment Works, Intake Pumps/Chemical Dosing&        -   1.4  4.2  4.2  2.8   1.4       -  14.0            -   1.6  5.0   5.2   3.7   1.9          17.3
Chlorination Eqpt
LBWS/C2FuxiPipeline7 Pump Station                             -   4.7   9.4  14.1  14.1  4.7     -  47.0            -   5.3  11.1  17.5  18.4   6.4     -  58.8
LBWS/C3 Nan Gao Distribution Mains                            -    -      -   1.8  2.7  4.5      -   9.0            -     -     -   2.2   3.5   6.2     -  11.9
LBWS/C4 Booster Pump Station                                  -    -      -   1.2  1.8  3.0      -   6.0            -     -     -   1.5  2.3   4.1      -   7.9
LBWS/C5 Distribution Network Improvements                     -   0.3   0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5   0.3   2.5              -   0.3   0.6   0.6   0.7   0.7   0.4   3.2
LDWS/CI Access Road & Site Preparation                        -   0.5     -    -    -    -       -   0.5            -   0.6     -     -     -     -    -   0.6
LDWS/C21ntakeStructure&Equipment                              -   1.2  2.4  3.6  3.6  1.2        -  12.0            -   1.4  2.8   4.5   4.7   1.6      -  15.0
LDWS/C3 Treatment Works, Chemical Dosing/& Chlorination Eqpt.  -   4.7   9.3  14.0  9.3  9.3     -  46.5            -   5.3  11.0  17.3  12.1  12.7     -  58.5
LDWS/C4 Transmission Main & Reservoir                         -    -   1.4  2.1   2.8  0.7       -   7.0            -     -   1.7   2.6   3.7   1.0     -   8.9
LDWS/C5 Distribution System Improvements                      -   0.3   0.5   0.5  0.5  0.5   0.3   2.7             -   0.3   0.6   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.4   3.4
SubtotalCivil Works                                  -  13.0  27.7  42.0  38.1  25.8  0.5 147.2            -  14.7  32.8  52.1  49.7  35.4  0.7 185.5
B. Equipment & Materials
LBWS/EI Power Supply                                          -    -      -     -   0.6  1.4     -   2.0            -     -    -      -   0.8   1.9     -   2.7
LBWS/E2 High & Low Voltage Power Distribution                 -    -      -     -   0.6  1.4     -   2.0            -     -    -      -   0.8   1.9     -   2.7
LBWS/E3 Instrumentation, Control & Automation                 -    -      -    -   0.9  2.1      -   3.0            -    -      -     -   1.2  2.8      -   4.0       -e
LDWS/EI Power Supply                                          -    -      -    -   0.3  0.7      -   1.0            -    -      -     -   0.4   0.9     -   1.3
LDWS/E2 High & Low Voltage Power Distribution                 -    -      -    -   0.8  1.8      -   2.5            -    -      -     -   1.0  2.4      -   3.3
LDWS/E3 Instrumentation, Control & Automation                 -    -      -    -   1.1  2.5      -   3.5            -     -    -      -   1.3  3.3      -   4.6
LBWS/SI Miscellaneous Equipment                               -    -      -     -    -   1.0     -   1.0            -     -    -      -     -   1.3     -   1.3
LBWS/SIAVehicles                                              -   1.0                      -     -   1.0                1.1     -     -     -     -    -   1.1
LDWS/S I Laboratory Equipment                                 -     -                 -   0.1    -   0.1            -                       -   0.1     -   0.1
LDWS/SIA Tools & Fumiture                                     -    -      -     -    -   0.1     -   0.1                                    -   0.1     -   0.1
LDWS/SlB Vehicles                                             -   1.2     -    -    -    -       -   1.2            -   1.3     -     -     -     -    -   1.3
Subtotal Equipment & Materials                       -   2.2     -     -   4.2  11.0    -  17.4            -   2.5     -     -   5.4  14.8     -  22.6
C. Land Acquisition & Resettlement
Beijiao                                                       -   2.0   0.2     -    -    -    -   2.2              -   2.1   0.2     -     -     -    -   2.4
Daxikou                                                       -   3.3   0.8     -                -   4.1            -   3.5   0.9     -     -     -    -   4.4
Subtotal Land Acquisition & Resettlement             -   5.3   1.0     -    -    -      -   6.3            -   5.6   1.2     -     -     -    -   6.8
D. Construction Supervision Services
Civil Works                                                   -   0.3   0.7   1.0  1.0  0.6   0.0   3.7             -   0.3  0.7   1.2  1.1   0.8  0.0   4.1
Equipment & Materials                                         -   0.0     -    -   0.0  0.1      -   0.2            -   0.0     -     -   0.0   0.1     -   0.2
Subtotal Construction Supervision Services           -   0.3   0.7   1.0  1.0  0.8   0.0   3.9             -   0.4  0.7   1.2   1.2  0.9   0.0   4.3
E. Engineering & Management
Civil Works                                                   -   1.3  2.8  4.2  3.8  2.6  0.1  14.7                -   1.3  2.9   4.7   4.4   3.2  0.1  16.6
Equipment & Materials                                         -   0.2     -    -   0.4  1.1      -   1.7            -   0.2     -     -   0.5   1.3     -   2.1
Land Acquisition & Resettlement                               -   0.5  0.1      -    -    -      -   0.6            -   0.5  0.1      -     -     -    -   0.6
Total                                                -  22.8  32.4  47.2  47.6  41.3   0.6 191.8           -  25.2  37.7  58.0  61.2  55.6  0.8 238.5
z
m
x



TABLE 7: DETAILED COST-ZIGONG WATER SUPPLY
(Y million)
Base Cost                                     Totals Including Contingencies
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 Total          1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
ZWS/Cl Access Roads                                           -   2.7   0.3     -      -     -     -   3.0            -   3.1   0.4      -     -      -     -   3.4
ZWS/C2 Raw Water Main                                         -  11.1  22.1  22.1  22.1  22.1  11.1 110.5             -  12.6  26.1  27.4  28.8  30.3  15.9 141.1
ZWS/C3 Treated WaterMains                                     -     -     -   1.6   4.0   2.4      -   8.0            -     -      -   2.0   5.2   3.3      -  10.5
ZWS/C4 Pipe Bridges                                           -   0.1   0.9      -     -     -     -   1.0            -   0.1   1.1      -     -      -          1.2
ZWS/C5 Nixi Intake Pump Station                               -   1.9   3.7   5.6   7.4      -     -  18.5            -   2.1   4.4   6.9   9.6       -     -  23.0
ZWS/C6 Treatment Works                                        -   3.9   7.8  11.7  11.7   3.9      -  39.0            -   4.4   9.2  14.5  15.3   5.3       -  48.8
ZWS/C7 Distribution Network Improvements                      -   1.1   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   1.1  11.2             -   1.3   2.6   2.8   2.9   3.1   1.6  14.3
Subtotal Civil Works                                -  20.7  37.0  43.2  47.4  30.6  12.2 191.2              -  23.6  43.8  53.6  61.8  41.9  17.5 242.3
B. Equipment & Materials
ZWS/Ml Intake Pumps (Yuanba & Xushui)                         -     -     -   2.0   3.0   5.0      -  10.0            -     -      -   2.4   3.8   6.7      -  13.0
ZWS/M2 Blowers & Filter Floor Nozzles                         -     -     -   1.2   1.8   3.0      -   6.0            -     -      -   1.5   2.3   4.0      -   7.8
ZWS/M3 Chlorination Equipment                                 -     -     -      -   0.5   1.1     -   1.5            -     -      -     -   0.6   1.4      -   2.0
ZWS/M4 Chemical Dosing System                                 -     -     -      -   0.3   0.7     -   1.0            -     -      -     -   0.4   0.9      -   1.3
ZWS/M5 Valves & Miscellaneous Items                           -     -     -   0.6   1.4      -     -   2.0            -     -      -   0.7   1.8      -     -   2.5
ZWS/M6 Nixi Intake Pumps                                      -     -     -   2.4   5.6      -     -   8.0            -     -      -   2.9   7.2      -     -  10.1
ZWS/El Power Supply                                           -     -     -   4.1   9.5      -     -  13.5            -     -      -   4.9  12.1      -     -  17.0        X
ZWS/E2 High & Low Voltage Power Distribution                  -     -     -   1.5   3.5      -     -   5.0            -     -      -   1.8   4.5      -     -   6.3        X
ZWS/E3 Instrumentation, Control & Automation                  -     -     -      -   1.5   3.5     -   5.0            -     -      -     -   1.9   4.7      -   6.6        P
ZWS/SI Supply ofPipes                                         -   6.2  12.4  12.4  18.6  12.4      -  62.0            -   6.9  14.4  15.1  23.8  16.7       -  76.9        o
-'w-S- --ply-o Pie                                                I.  12.4  12.  :.   :2.         - 20                    I    I. :4.4  :5.1  23.8  :6.7   -   6.9
L-W .VL a.UJppIy ui ripr                                           ..it it IU    tf                    .A                   .   -19.'  1-.1  .c4.   v.
ZWS/S3 Pipes for Treated Water                                -     -     -   1.3   3.8   7.5      -  12.5            -     -      -   1.5   4.8  10.1      -  16.4
ZWS/S4 Supply of Pipeline Valves                              -     -     -   2.0      -     -     -   2.0            -     -      -   2.4     -      -     -   2.4
ZWS/S5 Laboratory Equipment                                   -     -     -     -   0.6      -     -   0.6            -     -      -     -   0.8      -     -   0.8
ZWS/SSA Tools & Fumiture                                               -        -   0.1      -     -   0.1            -     -      -     -   0.1      -     -   0.1
ZWS/S5B Vehicles                                              -   1.0     -     -      -     -     -   1.0            -   1.1      -     -     -      -     -   1.1
Subtotal Equipment & Materials                      -  13.4  24.8  39.8  68.7  45.6       - 192.2            -  15.0  28.8  48.5  87.9  61.2       - 241.4
C. Land Acquisition & Resettlement                              -  26.7   6.7      -     -     -     -  33.4            -  28.5   7.4      -      -     -     -  35.9
D. Construction Supervision Services
Civil Works                                                   -   0.5   0.9   1.1   1.2   0.8   0.3   4.8             -   0.5   1.0   1.2   1.4   0.9   0.4   5.4
Equipment & Materials                                         -   0.1   0.2   0.4   0.7   0.5      -  1.9            -   0.1   0.3   0.4   0.8   0.6       -   2.2
Subtotal Construction Supervision Services          -   0.7   1.2   1.5   1.9   1.2   0.3   6.7              -   0.7   1.2   1.6   2.2   1.5   0.4   7.6
E. Engineering & Management
Civil Works                                                   -   2.1   3.7   4.3   4.7   3.1   1.2  19.1             -   2.1   3.9   4.8   5.5   3.7   1.6  21.6
Equipment & Materials                                         -   1.3   2.5   4.0   6.9   4.6      -  19.2            -   1.4   2.6   4.4   8.0   5.6       -  21.9
Land Acquisitioh & Resettlement                               -   2.7   0.7     -      -     -     -   3.3            -   2.7   0.7      -     -      -     -   3.4
Total                                               -  67.6  76.5  92.8 129.6  85.0  13.7 465.2              -  73.8  88.5 113.0 165.4 114.0  19.4 574.2
z
x
W.



TABLE 8: DETAILED COST-ZIGONG WASTEWATER
(Y million)
Base Cost                                    Totals Including Contingencies
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004 2005 Total         1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
ZWW/Cl Interceptor Sewer                                    -   5.8  11.6  14.5  17.4   8.7     -  58.0            -   6.6  13.7  18.0  22.7  11.9     -  72.9
ZWW/C2 Link Sewers & Connections                            -   0.6   0.6   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2  6.0             -   0.7   0.7   1.5   1.6   1.6   1.7   7.8
ZWW/3TreatmentPlant,PumpStations,Aeration,Scrapers&         -  11.9  23.7  35.6  35.6  11.9     - 118.5            -  13.5  28.0  44.1  46.3  16.2     - 148.2
Bridges
Subtotal Civil Works                               -  18.3  35.9  51.3  54.2  21.8   1.2 182.5            -  20.7  42.4  63.6  70.6  29.8   1.7 228.9
B. Equipment & Materials
ZWW/EI Power Supply                                         -     -     -     -   0.8   3.2     -   4.0            -     -     -     -   1.0  4.3      -   5.3
ZWW/E2 Hligh & Low Voltage Power Distribution               -     -     -    -   2.6   3.9      -   6.5            -     -     -     -   3.3   5.2     -   8.6
ZWW/E3 Instrumentation, Control & Automation                -     -     -     -   3.8   5.7     -   9.5            -     -     -     -   4.9   7.7     -  12.5
ZWW/SI Laboratory Equipment                                 -     -     -     -   0.6     -     -   0.6            -     -     -     -   0.8     -     -   0.8        (D
ZWW/SlA Tools & Fumiture                                                            -   0.1     -   0.1                                    -   0.1     -   0.1        -
ZWW/SlB Vehicles                                            -   1.0     -                       -   1.0                1.1     -     -                      1.1
ZWW/SIC Miscellaneous Equipment                             -     -     -     -    -   3.0      -   3.0            -     -     -     -     -   4.0     -   4.0
Subtotal Equipment & Materials                     -   1.0     -     -   7.8  15.9     -  24.7            -   1.1     -     -  10.0  21.4     -  32.5
C. Land Acquisition & Resettlement                            -   8.0   2.0     -     -     -      -  10.0           -   8.5   2.2     -     -      -     -  10.7
D. Construction Supervision Services
Civil Works                                                 -   0.5   0.9   1.3   1.4  0.5   0.0   4.6             -   0.5   0.9   1.4   1.6   0./  0.0   5.1
Equipment & Materials                                       -   0.0     -     -   0.1   0.2     -   0.2            -   0.0     -     -   0.1   0.2     -   0.3
Subtotal Construction Supervision Services         -   0.5   0.9   1.3   1.4  0.7   0.0   4.8             -   0.5   0.9   1.4   1.7   0.9   0.0   5.4
E. Engineering & Management
Civil Works                                                 -   1.8  3.6   5.1   5.4   2.2  0.1  18.3              -   1.9   3.8   5.7   6.3   2.7   0.2  20.4
Equipment & Materials                                       -   0.1     -     -   0.8   1.6     -   2.5            -   0.1     -     -   0.9   1.9     -   3.0
Land Acquisition & Resettlement                             -   0.8   0.2     -    -      -     -   1.0            -   0.8   0.2     -     -     -     -   1.0
Total                                              -  30.4  42.6  57.7  69.6  42.1   1.4 243.7            -  33.6  49.6  70.7  89.5  56.6   1.9 302.0
z
z
m
x
W,



TABLE 9: DETAILED COST-URBAN MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
(Y million)
Base Cost                                    Totals Including Contingencies
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 Total        1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 Total
1. Investment Costs
A. GIS Equipment
UMIS/SI Information Technology Equipment/System Design      -   1.0     -     -     -     -      -   1.0           -   1.1     -     -     -     -      -   1.1
UMIS/S2 Information Technology Equipment                    -     -   1.1   4.4     -     -      -   5.5           -     -   1.3   5.4     -     -      -   6.6
UMIS/S3 Office Equipment&Facilities                         -   1.3     --         -                 1.3               1.5     -     -     -                1.5
Subtotal GIS Equipment                             -   2.3   1.1   4.4     -      -     -   7.8           -   2.6   1.3   5.4     -      -     -   9.2
B. GIS Technical Assistance
UMIS/Ti System Design & Development & Training              -   4.1   3.1   3.1     -      -    -  10.3            -   4.6   3.6   3.8     -      -     -  12.0
UMIS/T2 Mapping, Pipe Survey & Data Collection              -   1.4   8.2  4.1      -     -      -  13.7           -   1.5   9.5   5.0     -      -     -  16.1
UMIS/T3 Map Survey-Luzhou                                 0.8     -     -     -     -      -     -   0.8         0.9     -     -     -     -      -     -   0.9
Total                                            0.8   7.8  12.4  11.6      -     -     -  32.6         0.9   8.7  14.4  14.1      -     -     -  38.1
TABLE 10: DETAILED COST-ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND REHABILITATION
(Y million)
Base Cost                                    Totals Including Contingencies                   a
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 Total        1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 Total             (D
1. Investment Costs                                                                                                                                                           >
A. Civil Works                                                                                                                                                              NJ
LERR/Cl Footpaths, Reception Area, Sewerage                 -   1.1   3.9   0.5     -     -     -   5.5            -   1.3   4.6   0.6     -     -     -   6.5
LERRJCIA Footpaths,ReceptionArea,Sewerage                   -   1.0   3.6   0.5     -     -     -   5.0            -   1.1   4.2   0.6     -     -     -   5.9
LERRIC2 Drainage, Access & Platform                         -   0.8   6.0   0.8     -     -     -   7.5            -   0.9   7.1   0.9     -     -     -   8.9
SERRtC3 Research Center, TouristCenter                      -   2.0   6.9   1.0     -     -     -   9.8            -   2.2   8.1   1.2     -     -     -  11.6
Subtotal Civil Works                               -   4.8  20.3   2.7     -     -      -  27.8           -   5.5  24.0   3.3     -     -      -  32.8
B. Equipment & Materials
LERR/Sl Computers, Software, Audio Equipment                -   0.1   0.3     -     -     -     -   0.4            -   0.1   0.3     -     -     -     -   0.5
SERRIS2 Computers, Software, Audio Equipment                -   0.2   0.4     -     -     -     -   0.6            -   0.2   0.5                            0.7
SERRIS3 Laboratory & Reception Center Equipment             -   0.6   1.3     -     -     -     -   1.9            -   0.6   1.5     -     -     -      -   2.2
CERRtS4 Environmental Monitoring Equipment                  -   0.6   1.3     -     -     -     -   1.9            -   0.6   1.5     -     -     -      -   2.2
CERRtS5 Adaptation Equipment                                -   1.5   3.4     -     -     -     -   4.9            -   1.6   4.0     -     -     -     -   5.6
Subtotal Equipment& Materials                      -   2.9   6.8     -     -     -      -   9.7           -   3.2   7.9     -     -     -      -  11.1
C. Technical Assistance for Cultural Heritage
LERR/TI Management Strengthening & Training                 -   0.3   0.3     -     -     -     -   0.6            -   0.3   0.3     -     -     -     -   0.7
LERR/T2 Monitoring & Analysis/Mahao Rock Tombs              -   0.2   0.2     -     -     -     -   0.3            -   0.2   0.2     -     -     -      -   0.3
SERR/T3 Management Support & Training                       -   0.2   0.2     -    -      -     -   0.4            -   0.2   0.2     -     -     -      -   0.5
SERRtT4 Restoration Analysis & Services                     -   1.0   1.0     -     -     -     -   1.9            -   1.1   1.1     -     -     -     -   2.2
CERRJT5 Training for Center                                 -   1.7   1.7     -     -     -     -   3.3            -   1.8   1.9     -     -     -     -   3.8
CERR/T6 Data Base, Equipment & Services                     -   4.7   4.7     -     -     -     -   9.3            -   5.2   5.4     -     -     -      -  10.6X
Total                                              -  15.6  35.0   2.7     -     -      -  53.3           -  17.5  41.1   3.3     -     -      -  61.9
fri



TABLE 1 1: DETAILED COST-INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND TRAINING /a
(Y million)
Base Cost                                         Totals Including Contingencies
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  Total             1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  Total
I. Investment Costs                                                                                                                                                             X
A. Technical Assistance & Training                                                                                                                                            CD
Package A-Institutional & Financial Support            -  16.0  16.0  13.7        -      -     -  45.6             -   17.8  18.5  16.7       -      -      -  53.0
Package C-Construction Supervision & Quality Control   -   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0         -  10.0             -   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.6   2.7          -   12.2
Total                                                  -  18.0  18.0  15.7   2.0   2.0         -  55.6             -  20.1  20.9  19.1   2.6   2.7          -  65.3
/a Package B-Construction Supervision Services & Quality Control costed in Min & Tuo River Basin Components.
z
z
m
x
cw



Page 44                                                             ANNEX 3
ANNEX 3B: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ID             Task Name                  1959         2000    |     2001          203                         2004         200          2006
_  11O21031041a c2l      4   l2310   l a     21 031041Q11021Q31 o4i11 21a31a410o1121O31 04i21 a3104
1 Chgdu Wan~ter
2    Cvl
3    MAE Supply & Erect
4    Co     _|misrug                  _                                                                                
5 D*mng  Vastwter
6    Cm'I
7    MaE Supply & Erect
S    C        _M  M!                                                         ______
9 L _zbe Blm Wa  tSupply                                                                             m
10    CivtI
II    MaE Supply A Et|
12   Com        W                                                                                                                   I
13 L _zbeu Dasikm Wae Supply
14    Civil
15    MAE Suppiy  Et&ct                                                        I                                -
17 L.sbo   uicipwal o ....dWase
is   Ci__                                                                     S      -
iS    M&E Supply & Erect
20    Comnhnsswng                                 i             _
21    Debvmy ofVelucbs                                         -                                                                     I _ 
22 LeaaVa._Supply                                                                      m         m
23    CMI00006
_       _    _        _    _           _     _s        _ _      _        _      _       _        _          __  I i_
24   MAE Supply A Erect
25    C        _mx                     _            _                                      _                          _
26 Lesb.N Wtter                                   !E                            _m
27    CiS                                         j                ;1
28   .AE Supply &Erct                                           i            -           _
29   Co trIaw g                                                               =             i            -              _
30 Zigag waSupply                                                                            
31    Cw_
32   ME Supply & Ereact                              _                                                    i
33   C.         w                                                __.          I _                         .              _
134r,6~~~~~~~~~~~~"W~~I                                                                                -  
34 ZIgeegwasbee-ateT                                                   MmeE            m
35 CvI _v_ 
36   MSE SuppyErct                               -1 BrI
37    Cm       W                       _                                      ' -                         '
34 GIS                                     m      u      m    .
35   Aivmciy Semcc                    _                                                                   I
36   DatCoa                                       I      _      .             ,                                                     i
37   Eqnt                                                                                                 i
38 CaftiHw Fm                                                                                                m
39   La-z Bddim                                                                  _t
40    StX. Dug                               .......
41   Cornsva   Cctarc_Im 
42 IST & E         _vvmwPad-gi
43   A. Fzmeid Stuig^i_;g
44    D. Cl-on            e a nm Sernows          7                 II
45.   B. Enwm  ic t Protemion                     i
46    C.1 Mm Tuo hvcr Iadn Polhnion Data                                      I
47         Oth&C.2&C .3 
Suiur7
D=sn - Prcure i Coaamaa.Erect
35 Prmcur-, D*uga / /mplient   -_
36 2id Des Prmir: / Ilmplrnet       _         _
37 Designi Implanent
43 .44 Procurc! Impinmt



Page 45                                ANNEX 4
ANNEX 4: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
China: Sichuan Urban Environment Project
Sichuan Province
1.   Sichuan Province is one of the poorest and the third most populous province in China, even after
the recent creation of a separate Chongqing Municipality from what was previously part of Sichuan. The
provincial population is over 100 million, representing around 6 percent of the national population, with
the capital, Chengdu, having a population of around 10 million. The average GDP per capita for the
province is about Y 3,000 ($360), less than two-thirds the national average of Y 4,810. Between 1990 and
1995, GDP grew by 12.2 percent a year in real terms.
2.   The population is predominantly rural (estimated 84 percent for combined Sichuan/Chongqing) but
has been urbanizing rapidly, with a small actual decline in rural population between 1990 and 1995. This
urbanization has been occurring through the development of towns and small cities as well as through
migration to the large cities. Overall population growth is relatively low (even by China's standards) at
0.9 percent a year but the urban population is still growing at an estimated 3.1 percent a year because of
the urban migration. There are no figures available for net migration from the province.
Development Plans
3.   With its inland location, Sichuan is one of the poorer of the large provinces, although it has always
been a focal point for western and southwestern China and a major trading center between the coast and
inland China (and its neighbors). The history and development have been dominated by the Yangtze and
its tributaries. The Chengdu Plain and the Sichuan Basin generally are highly fertile and productive lands
fed by the upper reaches of the Yangtze system as it descends from the Himalayas, while the broader
lower reaches of the river have always provided a reliable link between this region and China's coastal
areas. (A major Bronze Age settlement recently uncovered at Sanxingdui near Chengdu provides new
evidence of the importance of the area for the early development of Chinese civilization and supports the
need for careful protection of the area's cultural heritage in the midst of the present hectic levels of
development.)
4.   One of the preparatory studies has addressed planning and development issues in the Western
Yangtze Region (WYR) which incorporates Sichuan Province and the newly created Chongqing
Municipality. This WYR is the focal point of the central government's drive to channel greater public and
private investment into China's inland regions. To date, however, a major factor constraining growth has
been the region's inadequate infrastructure and deteriorating environmental conditions. Nevertheless, the
major urban centers have seen development over recent years that is close to that of coastal provinces on
the Yangtze such as Jiangsu and Zhejiang.
5.   A clear process of urbanization is taking hold, while at the same time there is rapid expansion of
industrial activity into previously rural areas. In this context, nonstate-owned enterprises (including
TVEs, private companies and family-owned enterprises) are emerging as a significant industrial force.
6.   Much of the growth in the region is occurring in the main corridor from Chengdu to Chongqing
(the Chengyu Corridor) and in secondary corridors. The principal findings of the study are that:



Page 46                                    ANNEX 4
*  cities located inside the Chengyu Corridor will grow in importance in relation to those outside;
*  over the long term, the secondary corridors (to the north and in between the major cities) will grow in
importance relative to the Chengdu conurbation;
*  subregional centers will decline in relative importance;
*  cities outside the corridors will also see a relative decline.
7.   In the short to medium  term, there is a need to focus investments in the environmental
infrastructure in the Chengdu conurbation but investment planning must also take into account the longer-
term relative growth of the secondary cities. Careful attention will also have to be paid to the impacts of
migrant populations. Since the period of reforms began, 8 million rural residents have left the countryside
to move to cities and towns and about half of this movement is permanent as opposed to seasonal or
temporary.
8.   The opening up of efficient trading links with the rapidly growing development areas of the east
and south will allow Sichuan to take better advantage of its agricultural fertility and its growing industrial
productivity. This process will continue the trend of increasing urbanization, including the need to service
industrial growth, and will also result in more intense agricultural production. As a result there will be
more (and competing) demands on the natural resources and on the financial and human resources of the
municipalities and the province, while at the same tirne, decentralization of government will provide
increased flexibility at municipal level, together with greater responsibilities and demands.
9.   While decentralization of some responsibilities to municipalities should promote development,
there will also be a growing need for integrated protection and management of natural resources. Many of
current problems stem from lack of coordination of development activities and from uncontrolled use of
natural resources.
National Policies
10.  National economic policies emphasize steady growvth with controlled inflation, while increasing the
rate of reform of state-owned enterprises. There is increasing government investment in fixed assets,
focusing on agriculture, forestry and water resources but with continued investment in energy,
transportation, communications, environmental protection and other infrastructure. There will be
increasing efforts to ensure rational infrastructure investment, to promote investment in the central and
western regions of the country and to stress efficiency in the utilization of infrastructure investment.
Project Rationale
11.  In addressing the provision of urban environmental infrastructure services and the protection of
water resources in Sichuan, the project would support directly two of the five priorities identified in the
latest CAS: safeguarding the environment and the reduction of infrastructure bottlenecks.
12.  The individual components have to be seen in the context of the overall conditions and issues in the
Upper Yangtze basin. Understanding of these issues has improved, based on work carried out by
provincial and national government agencies, together with studies supported by bilateral donors. In
particular, river quality modeling work carried out with the support of the Danish and UK Governments
has helped to identify priority problems, which can begin to be addressed by this project.
Focus on Min and Tuo Rivers
13.  In the early stages of project identification, the whole of the province was considered (including
what is now Chongqing Municipality) and a long list of potential projects was identified by the Project



Page 47                                  ANNEX 4
Management Office, including 147 projects in the new Province of Sichuan. This long list was reduced to
about half by a screening process, after which a formal priority ranking was prepared and 17 projects
were selected for detailed consideration.
14.  At the same time, initial consideration of water resources and water quality issues demonstrated
that the high and consistent flows in the Jinsha/Yangtze main stream were sufficient to provide water
supply to adjacent urban areas for the foreseeable future and to avoid serious water quality problems
occurring. However, significant problems were identified in the tributary systems, particularly in the
Chengdu Plain where intensive irrigation, industrial development and urban growth are putting increasing
pressure on the water resources. Of seven major tributary systems crossing Sichuan, it was agreed to
focus in this project on the areas along the Min and Tuo Rivers, in the center of the Plain near Chengdu.
These are the most heavily polluted and provided a practical scope for the project area, centered on the
urban area of Chengdu and including most of the municipalities with candidate projects.
15.  The two rivers are connected by the very old and extensive Dujiangyan irrigation system of the
Chengdu Plain. Headworks at Dujiangyan, where the Min descends from the Tibetan Highlands, control
the distribution of water into a series of river channels (essentially the ancient channels that the Min
carved across the alluvial fan at the edge of the Highlands). Some of these channels flow into the Tuo
while others are collected downstream of Chengdu in the Fu River, which joins back into the Min. Given
the relatively coarse nature of the soils and the extensive system of channels, there are also a significant
groundwater resources in the Plain. The irrigation system and the groundwater resources are key elements
for the water quality issues on the Min and Tuo.
Objectives for the Rivers
16.  The long-term objectives for the rivers are broadly related to the actual and desirable uses of
different sections of each river and are expressed in terms of target classification of the rivers, based on
the national classification system. The upstream section each river is designated Class II and currently this
can be met. The target for the main sections of each of the rivers, down to the confluences with the
Yangtze is Class III, which fundamentally means suitability for use as a drinking water source (assuming
that water treatment is provided). There is however some debate about this classification, based on
judgments as to the practicality of achieving water supply standard all along the river, and acceptance of
Class IV has been suggested for some reaches that are already heavily polluted. In broad terms, the
objective of achieving water supply standards all along the river is clearly desirable but the costs of
getting all of the river sections up to the standard are not yet well defined.
17.  A set of interventions have now been detailed and tested to calculate the improvements in river
water quality that will be achieved by each. The cases examined include the shortlist of projects proposed
for this project but also include examination of the impacts of cleaning up industrial pollution and other
approaches such as augmentation of flows in the river. The key design criterion is the protection of water
quality during critical low flow periods, which are a few months at the peak irrigation season when there
are maximum diversions from the river, and therefore the management of water quantity in the system
cannot be ignored in addressing the water quality. This is an issue of fundamental importance and will
need to be addressed soon in the context of increased competition for water resources in the area.
18.  The economic benefits of improving the rivers to Class III have not been estimated as this would
require considerable amounts of data that are not easily available. However, using an estimate for savings
in water supply treatment costs of only Y 0.01/m3 (based on a preliminary estimate from the project
team), the annual savings for a served population of 5 million would be Y 18 million, with a net present
value over 15 years of around Y 140 million. In addition, poor river water quality also has impacts on



Page 48                                  ANNEX 4
agricultural productivity that can also be significant but for which data are not available at present. The
potential savings of basin-wide water quality improvement are therefore large.
19.  To assist in prioritizing investments in improved river water quality, a River Basin Pollution Index
has been developed by the DRA consultants to compare the improvement that can be achieved by each
option. The Index is based on the length of river that can be brought up to the target river classification as
a result of different investments, together with the cost of the investments. It therefore is a form of least-
cost analysis, which provides useful comparisons although it does not take into account the relative
benefits of cleaning up different stretches of river. A tabulation of the cost-effectiveness of different
investments, based on this index was one of the factors in the final selection of components for this
project.
Project Cities
20.  The two urban areas of Chengdu and Chongqing account for 40 percent of WYR GDP (1995) and
the cities of Mianyang, Neijiang, Leshan, Deyang and Wamxian together contributed another 25 percent
of the total regional GDP. Most of the regions GDP is therefore generated in the central area of the
Sichuan Basin.
21.  Eleven candidate cities were examined by consultants CHREOD (through a Government of
Canada-supported consulting study) and ranked for the project, taking a planning projection to 2005. The
primary assumption was that growth would be focused along the broad Chengyu Corridor, resulting in
consolidation of Chengdu conurbation, the development of secondary corridors from Zigong toNeijiang
and from Chengdu to Mianyang, and with slower growth (by Chinese standards) in cities outside these
areas. In this scenario, the eleven cities can be considered in four groups:
 Chengdu
-  Mianyang, Deyang, Zigong, Neijiang-all part of the secondary corridors
=  Yibin, Luzhou, Leshan-outside the corridors but within their area of influence
-  Nanchong, Guangyuan, Panzhihua-outside the impacts of the corridors.
22. CHRlEOD evaluated these cities for inclusion in the project under four criteria:
=  urban growth prospects: the pressures of rapid urban growth;
* economic growth prospects: benefits will be greatest in those cities that are experiencing the most
rapid growth, since environmental infrastructure will sustain growth, and the richer cities will be
more able to carry the costs of providing the infrastructure;
* demand for environmental infrastructure: taking into account unmet water demands and the impacts
on the environment of wastewater and solid waste problems;
* ability to pay for infrastructure: the ability of consumers to pay market-based tariffs and the capacity
of local governments to divert on- and off-budget expenditures to infrastructure services, which will
determine the sustainability of the investments.
23.  The evaluation was based on up to eight quantitative parameters, which were weighted under each
heading, and a sensitivity analysis of the results, looking at overall weighting of the four headings toward
environmental, economic and financial and "balanced" views.
24.  The results of the rankings showed that under any view, the cities of Chengdu, Zigong, Deyang and
Neijang rank as the top four, with Mianyang as the fifth under most evaluations. The next city in ranking
would be Leshan or Panzhihua. Luzhou was in the lower rankings on most of the views, although it



Page 49                                   ANNEX 4
ranked ahead of Leshan on the financial regard. The order of priority was broadly consistent across all the
different weightings of the parameters.
25.  Basic details of the project cities are given in the Table 1.
TABLE 1: DATA ON PROJECT CITIES
Population (million)         GDP             Income per capita (Y)
Total      Nonagriculture    (Y billion)     Urban           Rural
Chengdu               9.71           3.08          100.70           5,076          1,649
Deyang                6.80           3.68           21.92           5,381            n.a.
Leshan                n.a.           0.23           12.27           3,730          2,321
Luzhou                4.52           0.62           14.83           4387             n.a.
Zigong                3.09           0.65           12.92           3,583           1183
SICHUAN             111.63          18.05         333.58            3,586          1,158
Source: DRA documents in project files (1997).
25.  Within the overall framework of (a) priority cities for infrastructure investment and (b)
effectiveness in improving river water quality and protecting water supply, the number of potential
project components was narrowed down to eight, in five cities: Leshan on the Min; Deyang, Zigong and
Luzhou on the Tuo; and Chengdu, on the Fu, which flows into the Min. There are three water supply
projects (one comprising two systems within the same system), four wastewater projects and one
municipal solid waste project.
26.  All of the wastewater projects are on the list of "cost-efficient" projects in relation to the
achievement of overall river quality objectives but they must also be considered from the point of view of
their local impacts and benefits. (There are various practical and pragmatic reasons why the list does not
include all the top ranking projects from that list: some of these are under consideration for funding from
local or other sources or are not ready for inclusion in the present phase of the project.)
Affordability and Willingness-to-Pay
27.  Affordability and willingness-to-pay (WTP) are important constraints on the size and scope of
schemes. A set of WTP studies were carried out in several of the project areas. These studies have
produced useful results even though there are some questions about representativeness and bias and it is
reasonable to use the results to draw some broad conclusions. The results are summarized in Table 2.
28.  The survey results do demonstrate a recognition of the problems and a need for environmental
upgrading. There is some willingness to pay for water and while the respondents typically did not want to
pay for wastewater, there was an acceptance of a reasonable figure suggested (similar to the water tariff,
which was used as benchmark). The suggested tariffs appear acceptable in relation to average household
incomes. The average household incomes recorded in the survey are consistently lower than official
(Yearbook) figures but it would not be surprising that there is some underreporting of incomes. Industries
surveyed appear to accept the principle of paying but there are questions about the probable success in
recovering charges.
Economic Analysis
29.  Estimates have been made by the design team of key values such as average incremental cost
(AIC), financial rates of return and affordability. These values are based on sparse data but do provide
insights.



Page 50                                    ANNEX 4
TABLE 2: SUMMARY OF WTP RESULTS
Scheme                         Domestic service                  Industry/commerce
Amount              Percent willing          WTP as % of
Y/m3                 to pay this          turnover (Y/m3)
Chengdu wastewater                0.7                    61                       0.9
1.4                   24
2.1                    7
Deyang wastewater                 -                       -                       0.7
Leshan water                      0.9                    78                       0.7
1.8                   21
2.7                    1
Leshan wastewater                 0.8                    89                       0.7
Leshan solid waste                0.8 (Y/t)              92
1.6 (Y/t)              8
Luzhouwater                       1.14                   87
2.28                   5
3.24                   I/a                     1.7
Zigong water                      n.a                                             I
Zigong wastewater                 n.a                                             1
/a Figures provided do not add to 100 percent.
Source: Project files.
30.  It appears, on the current information, that the tariff levels required to achieve the Government's
financial objectives are broadly affordable. However, the data in the WTP studies indicate that some low-
income families spend a large proportion of their income on food and the impacts on this group need to be
carefully considered. In Leshan and Zigong, where more than one scheme is proposed, there will be a
combined increase for many consumers and thus cumulative impacts needs to be taken into account.
Nevertheless, the necessary tariff increases should not be denied because of possible impacts on a small
minority of households. The appropriate mechanism should be targeted assistance for particularly hard-hit
groups rather than a reduction in charges for everybody.
31.  The Table 3 summarizes the information on these economic parameters.
TABLE 3: BAsIC ECONOMIC PARAMETERS
(In Y/m3 except where shown)
SCHEME           Scheme      WTP    FIRR before   Required initial  Income spent by low
AIC      estimate    tax (%)       utility tariff    10% (2004) (%)
Chengdu wastewater      0.83        0.9         9.9             0.9              1.5
Deyang wastewater       0.84        n.a.        10.7            0.31             0.5
Leshan water            0.81        1.0         11.5            0.98             2.6
Leshan wastewater       0.24        1.1         10.0            0.18             0.3
Leshan solid waste    99.6 (Y/t)    n.a.        11.5            -                 -
Luzhou water          1.04/0.85     1.1         11.5            2.05             2.9
Zigong water            1.24        n.a         10.3            1.48             2.3
Zigong wastewater       0.83        n.a         10.1            0.24             0.5
Note: Luzhou AICs are for the two separate schemes.
32.  The AICs presented here, which are approximations to the marginal costs of providing the services,
demonstrate the relatively high costs of the Luzhou-Beijiao and Zigong water schemes. In each case, the
high costs are associated with the long pipelines required and with the lumpy investments and high
operating costs associated with this type of scheme. These real high costs of providing the water supply
need to be reflected in the prices faced by consumers so as to manage the growth in demand for this



Page 51                                  ANNEX 4
relatively expensive water. The low AIC for Leshan wastewater comes from deferring the main treatment
investment until a later phase.
Economic Benefits
33.  All of the environmental service investments in the project generate both private and public
benefits but it is difficult to estimate the total of the benefits for each component. In addition, all of the
investments are expansions of existing services rather than new separate schemes, which complicates the
calculation and distribution of both costs and benefits.
34.  For the water supply schemes, the investments provide expanded coverage and more reliable
supplies to existing water schemes, rather than providing a completely new service to a defined area.
Given the data that would be required, it was not practical or realistic to prepare demand curves for each
of the proposed components but estimates are available on AICs for the four schemes and on WTP for
three of them. The WTP figures exceed the AIC by ratios ranging from 1.06 to 1.29. Estimates made of
the EIRRs for the different schemes are 10-12 percent, without taking account of public benefits (health,
amenity, etc.), which might be attributed to an improved water supply. On this basis, it is clear that the
projects provide positive economic benefits.
35.  The wastewater investments are also all expansions to existing schemes, typically providing
interception and treatment of present unacceptable sewer discharges to the rivers. In this case the benefits
are mainly public and environmental, since the households and commercial/industrial premises that are
using the existing sewer system will see no direct benefits from the new investments. At the same time,
the WTP studies that were carried out suggest that many households and industries did accept the need to
pay the costs of better environmental protection (essentially "polluter pays"). The few WTP figures
collected are of the same order of magnitude as the AICs of the new schemes, which would indicate
support for the proposed investments although the main justification of the schemes is to improved water
quality in the receiving waters and to move toward compliance with the water quality standards. There are
broad benefits that will accrue to improved water quality in the Min and Tuo Rivers but it is not possible
to calculate these and in any case the present investments are only first steps toward the long-term
cleanup. The basic justification for the investments proposed in upgrading the wastewater systems is
therefore cost effectiveness, based on the prioritization process used in selecting the schemes and the
optimization of the individual schemes through seeking a least-out solution.
36.  In a similar way, the proposed investments in municipal solid waste in Leshan are intended to
upgrade quality of the collection service and provide a higher level of environmental protection at the
landfill site, in a cost-effective manner; environmental rehabilitation investments are similarly justified.
Sustainable Municipal Environmental Services
37.  It is essential to establish sound and financially viable systems for providing and maintaining
infrastructure services, given the massive and growing demands brought about by urbanization and
development in the basin and with rising incomes. A estimate of the present population in the Min and
Tuo catchments (the project area) gives a total of about 30 million, of which 15-20 percent are currently
urban (but with rapid growth in urban areas). An estimated $2 billion would be required to provide basic
services to the existing urban population, without catering for the growth in urban population over the
next decades. These order-of-magnitude figures emphasize the need for sound municipal management,
avoiding backlog in service provision or over expansion of the debt burden.
38.  The provision of the necessary services would also require coordination and planning between
municipalities and at each basin level. SPMO would undertake this, together with SEPB and supported by
the Project Leading Group.



Page 52                                         ANNEX 4
APPENDIX A: INDIVIDUAL CITIES AND PROJECTS
Chengdu
There is a clear need to address wastewater problems in the capital city of the province. The proposed
works would be the first stage in reducing the severe water quality degradation in the rivers in and
downstream of Chengdu. The municipal government has been spending on urban environmental
improvement (parks, riverfront), which is evidence of the priority given to these issues. However,
provision of wastewater treatment is a major ongoing commitment and there is a need to get on a sound
financial basis if the city is to maintain acceptable levels of funding of operations and expansion of
treatment systems (there are already concems that the existing wastewater treatment plant is
underfunded). There is a very large industrial (state-owned enterprise) component in the proposed scheme
and it is important that the wastewater agency be able to deal competently with these industries.
TABLE 1: DATA ON CHENGDU
Parameter                            Value                            Comments
Total population                     9.6 million (1995)
Urban population                     3.0 million (1995)
GDP                                  Y 29 billion (1995)
Income                               Urban: Y 5,076/capita/year
Rural: Y 1,649/capita/year (1995)
Household size
WASTEWATER SCHEME
Capital cost (including contingencies)  Y 813 million
AIC (economic)                       Y 0.73/m3                         at 10% discount rate
Required tariff (beginning of scheme)  Y 0.9/m3
Current tariff                       None
WTP value                            Y 0.9/m3
FIRR before tax                      9.4 percent
EIRR                                 ---
Deyang
This is a newer city with the opportunity and the expressed intention to provide a sound wastewater
system. There is a relatively broad economic base and the municipal government is also spending on
environmental improvements. The selected wastewater system appears to be affordable and the treatment
selection decision was based on operational ease and reliability, which is a reasonable decision by the
city.
TABLE 2: DATA OI DEYANG
Parameter                            Value                            Comments
Total population                     3.6 million (1995)
Urban population                     0.8 million (1995)
GDP                                  Y 2.6 billion (1995)
Income                               Urban: Y 5,381/capita/year (1995)
Rural: n.a.
Household size
WASTEWATER SCHEME
Capital cost (including contingencies)  Y 288 million
AIC (economic)                       Y 0.87m3                          at 10% discount rate
Required tariff (beginning of scheme)  Y 0.3 1/rn3
Current tariff                       None
WTP value                            n.a.
FIRR before tax                      10.3 percent
EIRR                                 ---



Page 53                                         ANNEX 4
Leshan
The emphasis in Leshan is on commerce/tourism and it should be possible to justify investments in
wastewater and municipal solid waste on the grounds of protecting tourist income. A relatively
mechanized approach has been proposed for the municipal waste component but the city argues for this
on the grounds of cost effectiveness. The impacts of the wastewater scheme on overall river quality will
be small but by moving the discharge out of the city area, high local benefits can be obtained at relatively
low cost.
TABLE 3: DATA ON LESHAN
Parameter                             Value                            Comments
Total population                      6.7 million (1995)
Urban population                         million (1995)
GDP                                   y        (1995)
Income                                Urban: Y 3,730/capita/year
Rural: Y 2,321/capita/year (1995)
Household size
WASTEWATER SCHEME
Capital cost (including contingencies)  Y 142 million
AIC (economic)                        Y 0.20/mn3                        at 10% discount rate
Required tariff (beginning of scheme)  Y 0.18/m3
Current tariff                        None
WTP value                             Y 1.1/m3
FIRR before tax                       11.2 percent
EIRR                                  ---
WATER SCHEME
Capital cost (including contingencies)  Y 172 million
AIC (economic)                        Y 0.87/m3
Required tariff (beginning of scheme)  Y 0.98/m3
Current tariff                        Y 0.93/m3
WTP value                             Y 1.0/m3
FIRR before tax                       11.5 percent
EIRR                                  ---
SOLID WASTE SCHEME
Capital cost (including contingencies)  Y 80 million
AIC (economic)                        Y 99.6/ton
Current charge                        n.a.
WTP value                             n.a.
FIRR before tax                       11.5 percent
EIRR                                  ---
Luzhou
The proposed expansion of the water supply seems broadly reasonable (subject to the detailed financial
analysis), but the piecemeal development of water supply should be consolidated for efficiency of
management and finance (there is already an element of equalization of tariffs across domestic consumers
in different geographical areas). The municipality has lower income levels than most of the other cities
but the scheme seems affordable.



Page 54                                           ANNEX 4
TABLE 4: DATA ON LUZHOU
Parameter                           Value                               Comments
Total population                   4.5 million (1995)
Urban population                   0.4 million (1995)
GDP                                Y 0.6 million (1995)
Income                             Urban: Y 4,189/capitalyear (1995)
Rural: n.a.
Household size
WATER SCHEMES
Capital cost (including contingencies)   Y 294 million             including both schemes
AIC (economic)                     Y 1.56/m3 (Beijiao)             at 10% discount rate
Y 0.83/m3 (Daxikou)
Required tariff (beginning of scheme)   Y 2.05/m3
Current tariff                     Y 1.17/m3
WTP value                          1.1
FIRR before tax                    10.5 percent
EIRR
Zigong
This city would receive a large amount of investment under the project, as proposed, since it has the
highest-cost water scheme, by far, and a significant investment proposed in wastewater. Solid reasons
have been put forward for the water scheme presented but the high unit costs are still a concern. Zigong is
located at a strategic point on the transportation corridor between Chengdu and Chongqing and is
projected to grow rapidly. There is a need to address the shortcoming of the existing water supply and
also an obvious need for wastewater treatment, but the combined impacts of both schemes on the
municipal finances and on local affordability need to be examined. There is also a significant industrial
base in the area and the impacts of industry on both water and wastewater services need to be clarified.
TABLE 5: DATA ON ZIGONG
Parameter                           Value                               Comments
Total population                   3.2 million (1995)
Urban population                   1.0 million (1995)
GDP                                Y 4.5 billion (1995)            primary industry: 25%; secondary: 44%; tertiary:
31%
Income                             Urban. Y 3,583/capita/year
Rural: Y 1,183/capita/year (1995)
Household size                     3.13
WASTEWATER SCHEME
Capital cost (including contingencies)  Y 272 million
AIC (economic)                     Y 0.59/m3                       at 10% discount rate
Required tariff (beginning of scheme)   Y 0.24/m3
Current tariff                     None
WTP value                          n.a.
FIRR before tax                    10.1 percent
EIRR                               ---
WATER SCHEME
Capital cost (including contingencies)   Y 565 million
AIC (economic)                     Y 1.65/m3
Required tariff (beginning of scheme)   Y 1.48/m3
Current tariff                     Y 0.75/m3
WTP value                          n.a.
FIRR before tax                    10.3 percent
EIRR                               ---



Page 55                                 ANNEX 5
ANNEX 5: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND
MITIGATION MEASURES SUMMARY
China: Sichuan Urban Environment Project
A. BACKGROUND
1.   The Sichuan Research and Monitoring Institute of Environmental Protection carried out the
Environmental Assessment (EA) of the proposed Sichuan Urban Environmental Project (SUEP). The
draft EA documents were submitted to the Bank Group in May 1998 and reviewed by the Bank Group
during preparation. The final EA Report and Executive Summary (ES) were submitted to the Bank Group
in December 1998, reviewed and found to be satisfactory; during the EA work, the local people were
consulted, and their opinions have been reflected in the project design and environmental mitigation
measures, as appropriate.
2.   The policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessment of development projects
in China were followed during preparation and evaluation of the EA, as well as the Bank Group's policy.
Major laws and regulations applied to the EA are as follows: (a) Environmental Protection Law of the
People's Republic of China; (b) Atmospheric Pollution Control Law; (c) Environmental Noise Control
Law; (d) Water Pollution Control Law; (e) Cultural Heritage Protection Law; (f) Notice of Strengthening
the EA Management Work of Construction Projects Financed by International Financial Organizations;
and (g) Technical Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment.
B. BRIEF PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.   The Sichuan Urban Environment Project includes the following for which EAs have been
completed:
(a) Min River Basin:
* Water supply in Leshan city;
* Wastewater management in Chengdu and Leshan cities; and
* Solid waste management in Leshan city; and
(b) Tuo River Basin:
* Water supply in Luzhou and Zigong cities; and
* Wastewater management in Deyang, and Zigong.
C. BASELINE ENVIRONMENTAL DESCRIPTION
4.   Natural Environment. Sichuan Province (SP) is located in the southwest of China and is the third
2
most populous province, with a population of more than 82 million in an area of about 385 000 km
Sichuan had been the most populated province of China until the spring of 1997, when Chongqing and
the surrounding areas were afforded provincial status. The province is landlocked, being some 1,500 km
from the sea. It shares borders with eight provinces in addition to Chongqing-Qinghai, Gansu and
Shaanxi to the north, Hubei and Hunan to the east, Yunnan and Guizhou to the south and Tibet
Autonomous Region to the west.



Page 56                                  ANNEX 5
5.   The topography of Sichuan consists mainly of mnountains and plateaus and can be geographically
divided into the eastern basin area, the western plateau and the mountain area. The western half of the
province is dominated by the Himalayan Mountains. About 95 percent of the population lives in the basin
area and the provincial capital Chengdu is located in a part of the basin area known as the Chengdu Plain.
The plain's level terrain, fertile land, plentiful rainfall and temperate climate combined with established
extensive irrigation schemes such as Dujiangyan all contribute to the area's agricultural abundance.
6.   Agriculture is by far the most water-consuming sector in the province, and general agricultural
practices favor high water losses by evapotranspiration. This in turn limits water availability for the major
cities in the province, including Chengdu. This paLttern of water usage, together with increasing
urbanization and industrialization, is putting extreme pressure on urban surface waters. Although the
pollution levels in the Yangtze and Jialing are generally low as a result of the high river flows, the entire
Tuo River and parts of the Min are seriously polluted by wastewater discharges. Small rivers in urban
centers, such as the Fu in Chengdu and the Fuxi in Zigong, are heavily polluted.
7.   All project cities are located in the semitropical monsoon climate zone, where the climate is mild
and wet. Data for Chengdu, for example, indicate a monsoon climate with four distinct seasons with
relatively mild winters and warm summers. There are low winds (mean annual wind speed 1.2 m/s) with
calm conditions observed 46 percent of the time. Mean annual temperature is approximately 16C, with
absolute maximum and minimum temperatures of 37.3C and -5.9C, respectively. Annual rainfall
averages 976 mm, of which about 85 percent falls in the distinct wet season lasting from May to
September.
8.   Socioeconomic Situation. During the 10-year period 1986-95 there was a distinct shift in GDP
generation from the primary sector (from 36 percent to27 percent) to the tertiary sector (from 23.5 percent
to 31 percent), with the contribution from the secondatry sector remaining roughly constant. During the
same period the urban population increased from 11 to 16 percent.
9.   The relatively low proportion accounted for by the urban population illustrates the continuing
importance of agriculture. This is also reflected by the relatively low gross value of industrial output
(GVIO) for the province, which accounted for only 4.8 percent of the national total. The per capita GVIO
in 1995 was Y 3,909, little more than half the national average of Y7,587. There is, however, evidence of
significant continued urbanization and industrialization within the cities covered by the project.
10.  Water Resources. The eastern half of Sichuan has four major rivers, the Min, Tuo, Jialing and
Wu, which all flow into the Yangtze in the southern part of the province. Together with the Jinsha and
rivers in the western part of the province they endow Sichuan with rich water resources. The hydrological
characteristics of the principal river basins in the project area are shown in Table 1.
11.  The Yangtze is the longest river in Asia and the third longest in the world. The estimated total
runoff to the Yangtze from the catchment upstream of Wanzhou (in the Chongqing Municipality area), a
little more than half the total catchment area, is about 426 billion m3/year. Of this total some 26 billion m3
are runoff from the basins in Sichuan. Some 98 percent of the runoff from Sichuan drains to the Yangtze.
TABLE 1 HYDROLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF PROJECT AREA RIVER BASINS
River     Basin Area (km)  Length (km)    Rainfall(mm)    Runoff (mm)  Mean flow (mi/s)
Tuo                23,283            580            900            555            410
Min                22,664            730           1,000           585            420
Yangtze           974,881          2,908           1,000           436          13,478



Page 57                                  ANNEX 5
12.  The data in Table 1 indicate also that in terms of average annual flow, both the Min and the Tuo are
very substantial rivers. However, some 86 percent of the annual rainfall occurs during the wet season
from May to September. During the dry season the flows in both rivers are a fraction of the flows referred
to in Table 1. In addition the agricultural potential of the Chengdu Plain is greatly enhanced by the
Dujiangyan irrigation scheme, which draws extensively from the Min and diverts water via a complex
network of natural and artificial channels across the Plain.
13.  Moreover, there is not a significant topographic barrier between the Min and Tuo basins in many
areas, and interbasin diversions and discharges result in significant integration of the basins for practical
planning purposes. For example, the project cities of Chengdu and Leshan are located in the Min basin,
but wastewater from the eastern part of Chengdu drains to the Tuo. Deyang and Zigong are in the Tuo
basin, although Zigong straddles the divide with the Min basin and part of the city drains to the Min.
14.  Water Quality. The very large flows in the Yangtze provide considerable dilution and assimilation
capacity for polluting discharges. As a result, water quality in the Yangtze over its entire length in
Sichuan province is very good in terms of organic pollution, although the suspended solids loading is very
high, particularly during the wet season, largely as a consequence of soil erosion.
15.  Water quality in the Min and the Tuo may, however, be poor as a result of low flows and the
discharge of inadequately treated municipal and industrial wastewater. Although there has been
substantial economic growth in the cities in Sichuan, there has not been the corresponding provision of
environmental infrastructure, particularly in terms of sewerage and wastewater treatment.
16.  Water quality in the Min upstream of Dujiangyan is good, but following the discharge from the Fu
River, which receives discharges of wastewater from Chengdu, the quality deteriorates and at this point it
fails to meet the standard required for potable water sources. Water quality in the Sha, Nan and Fu Rivers
in urban Chengdu is considerably worse, on occasions failing to meet even the least stringent Class V
water quality standard. Water quality in the Min recovers to a degree between Chengdu and Leshan and
then improves substantially as a result beneficial fourfold dilution from the inflows of theDadu and
Qingyi Rivers.
17.  Conditions in the Tuo (formally defined as the river downstream of the confluence of the Mianyang
and Shiting rivers) are even more serious. Water quality is poor over the entire river length from Deyang
to the confluence with the Yangtze as a consequence of the discharges of municipal and industrial
wastewater. Concentrations of biological oxygen demand (BOD) are about 8 mg/l even under average
spring flow conditions, and ammonia concentrations consistently exceed 1 mg/I and are up to 5 mg/l.
Cities located on the river, such as Deyang and Neijiang, can no longer rely on the river as a source of
potable water.
18.  The project city of Zigong is located on the Fuxi River at its confluence with theWeiyuan; the Fuxi
in turn discharges into the Tuo about 37 river-km southeast of Zigong. The Weiyuan is heavily polluted
by discharges of wastewater from a range of heavy industry. In addition, the base flow in the Fuxi in the
dry season drops to almost zero, with the flow consisting very largely of municipal and industrial
wastewater. Even during the wet season, water quality remains poor because of groundwater pollutants
washed into the river and of scouring of polluting sludge from the riverbed.
19.  The Sichuan Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (SEPB) has determined water quality
objectives for the various stretches of rivers in the project area as follows:
Min River                 Upstream of Waizou (90 km upstream of Dujiangyan)     Class I/I
Waizou to Yibin (downstream of Leshan)               Class III



Page 58                                  ANNEX 5
Dadu and Qingyi                                                                 Class III
Urban rivers in project cities                                                  Class IV
Mianyang                  Upstream of Deyang                                    Class IIII
Deyang to Luzhou (Yangtze confluence)                Class III
Fuxi                      Zigong to Tuo confluence                              Class IV
Yangtze                                                                         Class II/III
20.  Following completion of the Three Gorges reservoir project, which would impound the Yangtze,
the water quality objective for the Yangtze upstream of the Three Gorges Dam, would be Class II.
21.  Air Quality. As in many urban centers in China, ambient air quality in the project cities is
generally poor, with variations due to differences in topography and pollutant source mix. For example, in
Chengdu the topography results in susceptibility to frequent and persistent temperature inversions. The
most important pollutant is particulates (TSP), the concentrations of which exceed the applicable Class II
standard throughout the year, with sodium dioxide (S32) and nitrogen oxide (NO) concentrations
exceeding standards for up to 15 percent of the time.
22.  Waste Management. In general, waste collection in the urban centers of the project cities is good,
but in the peripheral areas there is inadequate collection and disposal, with simple random dumping of
waste. Waste disposal facilities are consistently poor; landfills act as open dumps without intermediate or
final cover, controlled filling in purpose-designed cells, clrainage and gas controls. Mechanical plants such
as incinerators and composting plants rarely operate as a consequence of design faults, lack of spare parts
and inadequate operating budgets.
D. POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AkND THEIR MITIGATION MEASURES
23.  The balance of the impacts of the project is substantially positive and the environmental benefits
greatly outweigh the negative impacts.
24.  Environmental Benefits. The water supply components alleviate critical supply shortages,
increasing levels of service provision that will permit economic growth in the cities. For the cities of
Leshan, Zigong and Luzhou, new abstractions from different surface water sources will allow the
abandonment of the poor-quality supplies currently used. The wastewater treatment components yield
substantial water quality benefits in the major rivers, the Min and the Tuo, their tributaries and in
particular in the smaller urban rivers in and close to the project cities. The solid waste component for
Leshan will substantially enhance the efficiency of waste collection and will improve standards of waste
disposal to intemational standards of landfill management with effective facilities for control of leachate
and landfill gas. These investments would produce positive and significant public health benefits.
25.  Nevertheless, it will not be possible to achieve the desired water quality objectives for the rivers
throughout the project area solely by means of the project interventions for treatment of municipal
wastewater because of the magnitude of the pollution loads from industries that discharge wastewater
directly to the rivers. Accordingly, the project wastewater treatment components will be complemented
by the implementation of a time-bound Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan (IPCAP) targeted initially
at the industrial pollution loads with the greatest impact in terms of receiving water quality.
26.  Environmental Impacts and Mitigation. Although the balance of the project is substantially
positive in environmental terms, some negative impacts have been identified in the EA process for all



Page 59                                 ANNEX 6
components, and these require mitigation. The principal impacts and their appropriate mitigation
measures are described below.
27.  Construction Impacts and Spoil. Substantial quantities of spoil would be generated as a result of
excavation for pipeline installation and for the construction of water and wastewater treatment plants.
Most of the material would be reused on-site, and the total quantities in excess of local requirements are
on the order of 220,000 m3. Spoil disposal plans have been prepared for each project component where
excess spoil would be generated. It is expected that all spoil would be beneficially used in other local
construction activities and therefore spoil disposal would not be problematic. Other impacts of
construction include noise from construction machinery, generation of dust, disruption of local traffic.
These would be minimized by appropriate restrictions on working hours and operational procedures of the
contractors concerned.
28.  Sludge Disposal. Both water and wastewater treatment plants would generate sludge requiring
disposal. In the case of the water treatment plants, the liquid sludge would be discharged to the river from
which the water was abstracted. To minimize the impact on water quality problems under conditions of
low dry-season flows, sludge would be stored to extend the periods over which the sludge is discharged
and thereby reduce the instantaneous quantities discharged. In the case of three two proposed wastewater
treatment plants, the sludge may contain toxic pollutants as a consequence of the substantial proportion of
industrial wastewater treated. Accordingly, the disposal of the dewatered sludge would initially be by
controlled landfill.
29.  Other Operational Impacts. The other significant potential impacts of the operation of water and
wastewater treatment plants are noise and, in the case of wastewater treatment plants, odor. These would
be minimized by the siting of the plants and by the provision of buffer zones and landscaping. Where
there are sensitive noise receptors close to the facilities, the noise emissions would be minimized by
appropriate acoustic insulation of machinery.
30.  Landfill Impacts. The introduction of improved collection of waste and street sweeping in Leshan
would generate increased traffic in some areas. The impact of transport of waste to the landfill would be
minimized by the use of a transfer station; other impacts such as noise and odor would be minimized by
restrictions on hours of working and appropriate operational procedures. The principal impacts of landfill
site operations are the generation of leachate and landfill gas. The leachate from the site would be
discharged to the Dashi River, a small tributary of the Min with very limited flows in the dry season.
Pollution from leachate would be minimized by recirculating the leachate within the landfill and by a
leachate treatment plant involving biological treatment to reduce the pollution load by at least 90 percent.
Landfill gas would be collected using a system of extraction wells and would be flared. Depending upon
future local demand, it is hoped that in the longer term the gas may be recovered for beneficial use.
E. PUBLIC CONSULTATION AND INFORMATION DISCLOSURE
31.  The following approaches were adopted for public consultation: (a) meetings with city Project
Management Offices (PMO), utility companies, city EPBs, and other affected city departments; and (b)
surveys to gauge the public perception of the positive and negative impacts of each of the proposed
schemes. All schemes were well received by the public.
32.  The Environmental Assessment and Executive Summary were made public at the Bank Group's
Public Information Center in Washington, DC.



Page 60                                  ANNEX 6
ANNEX 6: RESETTLEMENT
China: Sichuan Urban Entvironment Project
1.   The Sichuan Urban Environment Project (SUEP) consists of nine components in water supply,
sewage treatment and refuse treatment/disposal in five cities of Sichuan Province (SP). Land acquisition
is necessary as well as the relocation and economic rehabilitation of people affected by the project.
Resettlement would be undertaken in accordance with a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) which has been
prepared by Sichuan specialists, and reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank Group. Some 90.1
hectares (ha) of land would need to be acquired, and 312 households (about 2100 persons) would be
directly affected by the project, shown by component below:
Project Component                      Land               Households
(ha)               Resettled
Leshan No. 4 Water Treatment Plant                       6.2                   1
Zigong Min River Diversion and Water Treatment Plant     4.9                 17
Luzhou Beijiao Water Treatment Plant                     2.0                 10
Luzhou Daxikou Water Treatment Plant                     2.7                 11
Chengdu No. 2 Sewage Treatment Works                    22.7                 57
Leshan Wastewater Collection                             1.0                148
Deyang Sewage Treatment Works                            8.7                 24
Zigong Sewage Treatment Works                            9.8                  7
Leshan Municipal Solid Waste Management                 32.1                 37
2.   Compensation for all affected structures would be paid at the replacement cost of affected
structures. Affected houses and enterprises would be provided with alternative plots of land for
construction of structures. All affected labor would 'be reemployed in the same enterprises after
reconstruction and would be paid a subsistence allowance or the duration of temporary unemployment.
Compensation for land acquisition would be paid to the collectives, which would be responsible for
redistribution of land among affected families. Temporary land acquisition would be compensated at rates
equivalent to the productive value of affected land. Allowance would be paid to the affected people for
moving to resettlement sites, and for facilitation transition to new houses and jobs.
3.   The lead group on land acquisition and resettlenment in each project city would coordinate the
resettlement program. Each city would establish its own land acquisition and resettlement offices. Internal
monitoring and evaluation would be done by the municipal project offices. Separate monitoring
institutions would carry out independent monitoring and evaluation. The total cost of the land acquisition
and resettlement program, including physical and price contingencies, is Y 264.5 million (about $32.0
million). The detailed implementation schedule for the resettlement program has been drawn up. The
specific compensation and relocation-related activities, which need to be completed before construction
can commence on a given component, have been clearly listed in the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP).
The entire process of resettlement planning has been participatory. Census and socioeconomic surveys
were conducted with the full participation of affected persons. The municipal governments were fully
involved in the process of RAP preparation. Implementation would involve municipal-level institutions
and the representatives of the affected peoples. In order to ensure that each affected household is fully
informed about the resettlement program, the municipal project offices would distribute resettlement
information booklets.
4.   The RAP has been lodged in the Project Information Center and in the Project Files (Annex 10).



Page 61                                   ANNEX 7
ANNEX 7: FINANCIAL SUMMARY
China: Sichuan Urban Environment Project
Main assumptions:
Provincial and Municipal Finances
1.   Assumptions for Financial Projections. The assumptions made when calculating the projections of
the on-budget revenue and expenditure statements of (a) Sichuan Province; and (b) Chengdu, Deyang,
Leshan, Luzhou and Zigong Municipalities for the period 1999-2004 are set out below. On-budget revenues
are those arising from taxes levied on enterprises operating in these areas; off-budget revenues consist of
special fees to enterprises and are used chiefly for capital expenditures.
2.   Revenue Forecast. The actual (1996-98) on-budget revenue figures have been derived from data
provided by the provincial and municipal governments. Between 1996 and 1998, the average annual increase
in revenue was between 21 and 56 percent in current terms, except for Deyang, where there was a decrease of
11 percent. To estimate future revenues, an overall conservative average annual increase of about 9 percent in
current terms has been assumed using 1998 as the base year.
3.   Expenditure Forecast. Historically, on-budget expenditures have registered between 98 to 100
percent of on-budget revenues. To estimate future expenditures, an overall average annual increase of about 8
percent in current terms has been assumed using 1998 as the base year.
4.   The following tables summarize projected revenue and expenditure data from 1999 to 2006 for
Sichuan Province and the participating municipalities. Projected project expenditures are also included.
TABLE 1: SICHUAN PROVINCIAL FINANCES
(Y billion, current terms)
Actual                             Projected
1998     1999    2000   2001       2002   2003    2004    2005    2006
Receipts                41        45       49      53       58     63       68      75      81
Expenditures            33         36      39      43       47     51       56      61      66
Project Expenditures      0      0.01     0.4    0.5        0.5    0.6     0.5     0.3       0
Project as % of Receipts            0     0.8    0.9        0.9     1      0.7     0.4



Page 62                                      ANNEX 7
TABLE 2: MUNICIPAL FINANCES
(Y million, current terms)
Actual                               Projected
1998   1999    2000    2001       2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
Chengdu
Receipts                 8,820  9,613   10,478   11,421    12,449  13,570   14,791   16,121   17,572
Expenditures             8,620  9,310   10,055   10,8459    11,728  12,666   13,679   14,774   15,956
ProjectExpenditures         0       0      189     205        173    213      245      221
Project as % of Receipts                   1.6      1.8       1.4    1.6       1.7      1.4
Deyang
Receipts                 2,465  2,687    2,928    3,1 92    3,480   3,792    4,134    4,506    4,911
Expenditures             1,548  1,672    1,806    1,950     2,106   2,275    2,456    2,652    2,865
Project Expenditures        0       0      43       43         63     80       47       0.8
Project as % of Receipts                   1.5      1.4       1.8    2.1       1.1       0
Leshan
Receipts                 1,172  1,277    1,392    1,512     1,654   1,803    1,965    2,142    2,335
Expenditures             1,125  1,215    1,312    1,417     1,530   1,652    1,785    1,928    2,082
Project Expenditures        0       0       47      78        101    126       67        16
Project as % of Receipts                   3.4      5.2       6.1    7.0       3.4      0.8
Luzhou
Receipts                 1,123  1,224    1,334    1,454     1,585   1,728    1,883    2,052    2,238
Expenditures             1,050  1,134    1,225    1,323     1,429   1,543    1,666    1,800    1,943
Project Expenditures        0       0      25       38         58     61       56       0.8
Project as % of Receipts                   1.9      2.6       3.7    3.5       2.6       0
Zigong
Receipts                 1,039  1,133    1,234    1,345     1,467   1,598    1,742   1,899,   2,070
Expenditures             1,012  1,093    1,180    1,275     1,376   1,486    1,606    1,734    1,873
Project Expenditures        0       0      107      138       184    255      171       21
Projectas%ofReceipts                       8.7    10.3       12.5   15.9       9.8      1.1
Public Utility Financial Analysis
5.    Water Supply Companies. The financial position of the Leshan, Luzhou and Zigong water supply
companies has been weak for some years. Between 1985 and 1996, real tariffs declined in Leshan and
Luzhou by 10 and 34 percent, respectively, while operating costs rose significantly. In Zigong, real tariffs
increased by only 15 percent, while real operating costs rose by more than 15 percent. The three
companies deferred paying their suppliers, including payments for electricity. Shortfalls were eventually
rectified by taking out local bank loans, and in the case of Luzhou, by receiving an operational subsidy
from the municipality. In 1998, Leshan, Luzhou and Zigong adjusted their water tariffs. The outstanding
payments to suppliers have now been regularized. There is a realization in the companies and the parent
municipalities that tariffs need to be set at levels that would improve the revenue-earning capabilities of
the entities. The water supply companies plan to limit increases in their administration budgets; technical
assistance proposed under the project would assist the companies to rationalize their expenses, including
administration expenses. The financial objectives set for the companies are for them to make reasonable
contributions to their respective capital investment programs, after meeting cash expenses. The water
supply companies would incur no additional debt without the Bank Group's agreement unless reasonable
forecasts show they would have a debt service coverage of at least 1.3 times. Projections made up to the
year 2007 show that the companies would post surpluses if they are permitted to periodically adjust tariffs



Page 63                                   ANNEX 7
as shown in Table 3 and improve operating efficiency by limiting additional increases in management and
staff.
6.   The largest cost for the companies is electricity, representing 41 percent of Leshan's operating
costs, 48 percent of Luzhou's, and 27 percent of Zigong's costs. Residential consumers provide the most
revenue in Leshan (50 percent), and Luzhou (42 percent). This trend is expected to continue. In Zigong,
industrial consumers provide the most revenue (51 percent). During the project implementation period,
the companies expect to contribute about 24 percent toward their respective capital investment programs
from internal sources, with long-term debt and municipal equity contributions making up the balance in
the proportions of about 40 percent and 36 percent, respectively.
7.   Wastewater Companies. Prior to the establishment of the wastewater companies of Chengdu,
Deyang, Leshan and Zigong during project preparation, wastewater collection, treatment and disposal
were the responsibility of the Municipal Engineering Departments of the cities. Budgetary allocations
were made to fund the service. As is the practice in departmental operations, no provision was made for
depreciation. The financial objectives of the municipalities for their wastewater companies are that they
should be permitted to set and maintain their tariffs at levels that, at the least, would permit them to break
even (i.e., wastewater revenues to cover operating costs and the greater of depreciation and debt service).
The wastewater companies would incur no additional debt without the Bank Group's agreement unless
reasonable forecasts show they would have a debt service coverage of at least 1.3 times.
8.   All participating wastewater companies have recently introduced wastewater tariffs, to be based on
80 percent or 100 percent of water consumption for both domestic and nondomestic consumers.
Wastewater tariffs will be collected by the water supply companies and the proceeds passed to the
wastewater companies, less handling charges. Industries with self-supply but which discharge to the
sewer system will be billed by the water saving department in each city. The proceeds of the collections
will be passed to the wastewater companies.
9.   The actual and projected tariffs over the implementation period of the project are given in Table 3.
The assumptions used in the financial projections are set out below. The projected operational and
fmancial statements are included in the Project File.
TABLE 3: ACTUAL AND PROJECTED TARIFFS
(Y/mi3, current prices)
Actual                                Projected
1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007
Chengdu WW                       0.15   0.23   0.24   0.24   0.28   0.33   0.44   0.44   0.44
DeyangVWW                        0.15   0.15   0.18   0.31   0.40   0.72   1.11   1.11   1.11
LeshanWS    0.73   0.78   0.94   1.13   1.21   1.28   1.46   1.62   1.64   1.66   1.66   1.66
LeshanWW                         0.15   0.15   0.19   0.19   0.19   0.19   0.19   0.19   0.19
Luzhou WS    0.49   0.59   0.59   1.27   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33
Zigong WS    0.75   0.78   0.94   1.07   1.49   1.64   1.77   1.93   1.93   2.42   2.42   2.54
Zigong WW                        0.25   0.25   0.27   0.36   0.39   0.67   0.67   0.67   0.67
ASSUMPTIONS TO UTILITY FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
A. WATER SUPPLY COMPANIES
10.  Assumptions to the projections of the main financial statements of the Leshan Water Supply General
Company (LEWSGC), Luzhou Water Supply Company (LUWSC), and Zigong Water Supply Company
(ZWSC) for the period 1995-2013 have been prepared.



Page 64                                   ANNEX 7
11.  Inflation and Exchange Rates. Yearly general domestic inflation rates used in the projections are
0 percent in 1999, 3.0 percent in 2000, 5.0 percent in 2001 and thereafter. Foreign price increases are
estimated at 1.3 percent in 1999, 2.55 percent in 2000, .2.7 percent in 2001, and 2.5 percent in 2002 and
thereafter.. The exchange rate used to convert foreign costs to local currency, where applicable, was Y8.3 per
$1.0. It is assumed that exchange rate adjustments would, on average, maintain purchasing power parity over
the projection period.
Income Statement
12.  Water Sales. Projections of sales are based on "minimum demand" and maximum capacity figures.
Unaccounted-for-water is estimated at 10 percent of production for LEWSGC and ZWSC and 13 percent for
LUWSC. It is assumed that whenever demand exceeds supply, the shortfall would be borne by both the
domestic and nondomestic categories of consumers, proportionally.
13.  Tariffs. Tariffs quoted are average tariffs and prices are expressed in yuan per n3.
14.  Operating Costs. Salaries and wages are assumed to increase at the rates given in para. 11 above.
Energy prices are assumed to increase in line with general inflation. Materials and other costs are assumed to
increase at the general inflation rate. The following depreciation rates have been applied to assets (a) over 15
years; and (b) under 15 years, respectively: LEWSGC-4.5 and 7.5 percent; LUWSC-4.5 and 5.0 percent;
ZWSC-4.0 and 10.0 percent. The following sales and income taxes have been applied, respectively:
LEWSGC-0.87 and 33 percent; LUWSC-0.97 and 33 percent; and ZWSC-0.84 and 33 percent.
15.  Interest and Amortization Expenses. The proceeds of the IBRD loan are assumed to be onlent by the
Leshan, Luzhou and Zigong Municipal Governments to LEWSGC, LUWSC and ZWSC at 6.15 percent a
year for 15 years, including a grace period of 5 years. Amortization of the loans would be on the basis of
equal payments of principal and interest. The companies would bear the foreign exchange risk. The parent
municipalities would provide the counterpart funds as capital grants.
Balance Sheet
16.  Inventories. Inventories have been projected to take into account general inflation as well as any
expanded levels of operations and construction.
17.  Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable from  water sales are assumed to be as follows:
LEWSGC-29 days; LUWSC-73 days reducing to 37 days; and ZWSC-55 days reducing to 37 days.
18.  Fixed Assets. Fixed assets are valued at historic costs. In the projections, construction work-in-
progress is assumed to be 1 00 percent accounted for upon completion.
Source and Application of Funds
19.  Working Capital Needs. Working capital needs represent the excess, or otherwise, of the current
year's current assets (net of cash), less the excess of the previous year's current assets (net of cash) over
current liabilities.
20.  Change in Cash. Change in cash (which includes short-term investments) calculates the balance sheet
cash balance for the current year.
B. WASTEWATER COMPANIES
21.  Assumptions to the projections of the main financial statements of Chengdu Drainage Company
(CDC), Deyang Sewage Treatment Corporation (DS,TC), Leshan Wastewater Treatment Company



Page 65                                   ANNEX 7
(LEWTC), and Zigong Wastewater Treatment Company (ZWWTC) for the period 1997-2013 have been
prepared.
22.  Inflation and Exchange Rates. Yearly general domestic inflation rates used in the projections are
0 percent in 1999, 3.0 percent in 2000, 5.0 percent in 2001 and thereafter. Foreign price increases are
estimated at 1.3 percent in 1999, 2.55 percent in 2000, 2.7 percent in 2001, and 2.5 percent in 2002 and
thereafter. The exchange rate used to convert foreign costs to local currency, where applicable, was Y8.3 per
$ 1.0. It is assumed that exchange rate adjustments would, on average, maintain purchasing power parity over
the projection period.
Income Statement
23.  Sales. Projections of sewage quantities are based on "minimum demand" and maximum capacity
figures, and at the equivalent of 80 percent of water bills.
24.  Tariffs. Tariffs quoted are average tariffs and prices are expressed in yuan per m3.
25.  Operating Costs. Salaries, wages and staff benefits are assumed to increase at the rates given in para.
22 above. Energy, materials and other costs are assumed to increase in line with general inflation also. The
following depreciation rates have been applied to (a) assets over 15 years, and (b) assets under 15 years,
respectively: CDC-4 and 8 percent; DSTC-4.5 and 7.5 percent; LEWTC-4.5 and 7.5 percent; and
ZWWTC-4.0 and 4.5 percent. LEWTC and ZWWTC are assumed to pay 0.87 and 5.7 percent,
respectively, in sales taxes. No sales taxes are to be paid by CDC and DSTC. An income tax of 33 percent is
assumed to be paid by DSTC and LEWTC.
26.  Interest and Amortization Expenses. The proceeds of the IIBRD loan are assumed to be onlent to
CDC, DSTC, LEWTC and ZWWTC at 6.15 percent a year. Amortization of loans would be on the basis of
equal payments of principal and interest. The companies would bear the foreign exchange risk. The
municipalities would provide the local capital counterpart funds as capital grants.
Balance Sheet
27.  Inventories. Inventories have been projected to take into account general inflation as well as any
expanded levels of operations and construction.
28.  Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable is assumed to be as follows: CDC-54 days; DSTC and
LEWTC-36 days; and ZWWTC-57 days, reducing to 38 days.
Source and Application of Funds
29.  Working Capital Needs. Working capital needs represent the excess, or otherwise, of the current
year's current assets (net of cash), less the excess of the previous year's current assets (net of cash) over
current liabilities.
30.  Change in Cash. Change in cash (which includes short-term investments) calculates the balance sheet
cash balance for the current year.



Page 66                                  ANNEX 8
ANNEX 8: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
ARRANGEMENTS
China: Sichuan Urban Einvironment Project
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
1.   Procurement procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the Bank Group, as reflected in Table A,
were agreed upon with Sichuan Project Management Office (SPMO) and the implementing agencies. All
procurement would be undertaken in accordance with the Bank Group's Procurement Guidelines, January
1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and Januany 1999. International tendering activities would
be organized through the China National Chemical Construction Corporation International Tendering
Company Limited (CNCCC Tendering Company Ltd.), which has been contracted by SPMO on behalf of
the implementing agencies and Sichuan Province (SP) to carry out the work. The CNCCC Tendering
Company Ltd. is an experienced and competent procurernent agent familiar with, and has had recent and
relevant experience in, intemational competitive bidding (ICB) work on Bank Group-financed projects.
The General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published iia the UN Development Business, No. 502, dated
January 16, 1999. Tender documents to be used for ICB would be those agreed between the World Bank
Group and the Government, and other model bidding dccuments of the World Bank Group. The tender
documnents to be used in the project for national competitive bidding (NCB) would be based on the Model
Bidding Document for NCB (May 1997), agreed between the World Bank Group and the Government.
All works contracts would be grouped whenever practical into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $6.0 million or more each, and contracts for goods shall be grouped into packages estimated
to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or more each, to attract maximum international competition. For all
civil works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $6.0 million or more, and goods contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or more, which would be procured using ICB procedures,
would be advertised as Special Procurement Notices published in Development Business and/or well-
known technical magazines, newspapers and trade publications of wide international circulation.
2.   Civil Works. There is a total of about $174.0 milliDn of civil works, of which about $112.0 million
(65 percent) would be procured using ICB procedures. ICB procedures would be used for all civil works
contracts of estimated value over $6.0 million each. All remaining civil works are too small, scattered or
scheduled too far apart to be packaged into larger contracts to be of interest to foreign firms. Of the remaining
works, about $58.4 million would be awarded through NCB procedures, acceptable to the Bank Group; the
balance-about $4.0 million-would be non-Bank Group-financed. The NCB procedures recently adopted
by the Government have been reviewed and approved by the World Bank Group. Interested foreign bidders
woulel be slowed to bid for NCB contracts.
3.   Equipment and Materials. There is a total of about $77.0 million of equipment and materials in the
project, of which about $62.0 million (81 percent) would be procured using ICB procedures. All equipment
and materials with individual contract values of $400,000 or more equivalent would be procured using ICB
procedures. Equipment and materials with individual contract values less than $400,000 equivalent would be
procured using NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank Group, up to an aggregate amount of $3.9 million.
Contracts costing $50,000 equivalent or less up to an aggregate amount of about $3.6 million, would be
procured through national shopping procedures with at least three price quotations.
4.   Direct Contracting. Direct contracting (not Bank Group-financed), amounting to about $5.0 million,
would be used for contracts for (a) the provision of electricity supplies to the pump stations, buildings and



Page 67                                   ANNEX 8
facilities by the local power companies; (b) drainage and road diversions; (c) other utility services and
railways; and (d) some works, equipment and services under the environmental protection and rehabilitation
component.
5.   Technical Assistance and Training. All consultants to be retained under the project would be
recruited in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers-January 1997," and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (Table Al of this
Annex). For contracts estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent, SP may engage national consultants,
using Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). Quality-Based Selection (QBS) procedures and least cost
selection may also be used as appropriate. For contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, SP
may, with the Bank Group's prior agreement, use single-source selection of consultants. Single-source
selection would be utilized for contracts for training related to staff training and studies costing less than
$100,000 per contract in the case of firms, and less than $50,000 per contract in the case of individuals.
Consultants would be engaged using the Bank's Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services-June
1995. Drafts of Letters of Invitation and Terms of Reference for institutional and financial technical
assistance, construction supervision services, and sector institutional strengthening for (a) Package A-
financial/institutional support for the water supply and wastewater utility companies, and Leshan solid waste
management; and (b) Package B-construction supervision and quality control for the water supply and
wastewater utility companies and Leshan solid waste management, and support for SPMO were reviewed at
negotiations. Details of the institutional strengthening and training component are summarized in Annex 2.
The signing of contracts between the utility companies, LESMB and consulting firms for such assistance
under Packages A and B is a condition of disbursement for civil works. The Terms of Reference for the main
consultancy assignments are in the Project File (Annex 10).
Prior-Review Thresholds (Table B)
6.   Prior-review procedures would be used for (a) all civil works contracts (about 8 contracts, 65 percent
of the works by value) of $6.0 million or more; (b) all equipment and materials contracts (about 33 contracts,
81 percent of the equipment and materials by value) of $400,000 million or more; and (c) consultancy service
contracts with an estimated contract cost of more than $200,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals. In the
case of consultancy service contracts, all terms of reference and single-source selections, regardless of the
value of the contract, would be subject to prior review. For contracts below the above-mentioned limits,post-
review procedures would be followed. An estimated 71 percent of the value of all contracts proposed to be
financed by the Bank Group would be subject to prior review. The sampling ratio for contracts not subject to
prior review would be 10 percent.
Procurement Contract Packaging
7.   The contract packaging for the project is provided in Table C, showing the goods, workls and service
contracts proposed for each subcomponent.
Disbursement
8.   Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds (Table E). Allocation of loan proceeds is shown in
Table E.
9.   Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Withdrawal from the loan account would be made on
the basis of SOEs for expenditures for: (a) civil works under contracts costing less than $6.0 million, (b)
goods under contracts costing less than $400,000; (c) training; (d) services provided by consulting firms
under contracts costing less than $100,000, and (e) services provided by individual consultants under
contracts costing less than $50,000.



Page 68                                     ANNEX 8
10.  Authorization, Allocation and Operation of Special Account. To facilitate disbursements, a
Special Account would be opened with an authorized allocation of $11 million equivalent, the estimated
average expenditures for about a four-month period.
11.  Procurement Schedule for Civil Works, Equipmnent and Materials (Table F). The schedule is in
the project file (Annex 10).
12.  Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing of up to $100,000 would be applied to expenditures
made after April 1, 1999 for topographic mapping services in Luzhou under the Urban Management
Infortnation System component.
Annex 8, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in $ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                    Procrlrement Method                  (including
ICB        NCB        Other       NBGF       Contingencies)
1. Works                          112.0        58.4         -           3.3         173.7
(45.1)     (23.6)                   (0.0)        (68.7)
2. Goods                           62.2         3.9         3.6         7.5          77.2
(59.0)      (3.7)       (3.3)       (0.0)        (66.0)
3. Services                         -           -          15.8         2.1          17.9
(15.8)      (0.0)         (15.8)
4. Miscellaneous                    -           -                      57.0          57.0
(0.0)        (0.0)
5. Interest during construction     -           -           -          19.4          19.4
(0.0)         (0.0)
6. Front-end Fee                    -           -           1.5                      ( 1.5
Total                       174.2        62.3        20.9        89.3         346.7
(104.1)     (27.3)      (20.6)       (0.0)       (152.0)
Note:  Other = procurement through national shopping, consultant services and training, and front-end fee.
NBGF = Not Bank Group-Financed includes land acquisition and resettlement, reserved procurement,
some works, goods and services contracts under the Environmental Protection and Rehabilitation
component, design and administration, and interest during construction.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.



Page 69                                      ANNEX 8
Annex 8, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                    Selection Method                      Total Cost (Including
Expenditure Category  QCBS   QBS    SFB    LCS    CQ    Other  NBGF               Contingencies)
1. A. Firms           13.6     0.2              1.9           0.1      2.1            17.9
(13.6)    (0.2)          (1.9)          (0. 1)   (0.0)          (15.8)
B. Individuals              -       -           -               -                      0.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ______   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~ ~ I(0 .0)
Total  13.6      0.2      -      1.9     -      0.1     2.1            17.9
(13.6)    (0.2)          (1.9)          (0.1)    (0.0)          (15.8)
Notes:  QCBS  = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection           QBS         Quality-based Selection
SFB    = Selection under a Fixed Budget;             LCS        Least-Cost Selection
CQ     = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other  = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
NBGF = Not Bank Group-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.
Annex 8, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure        Contract Value          Procurement             Contracts Subject to
Category          (Threshold)               Method                   Prior Review'
$ thousands                                   $ millions (base costs)
1. Works
More than $6.0 million         ICB            8 contracts
$92.0 m subject to prior review
NCB            29 contracts $47.9 m not subject to
prior review
2. Goods       More than $0.4 million          ICB           33 contracts $ 50.5 m subject to prior
review
Between $0.4 million and      NCB             13 contracts $3.2 m not subject to
$0.05 million                             prior review
Up to $0.05 million   National Shopping    $2.9 m not subject to prior review
3. Services    More than $0.10 for firms,  QCBS or QBS       $12.0m subject to prior review
more than $0.05 for
individuals
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: $154.5 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average      X
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 6 months (including
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
I Estimated Contract Values shown in text of Annex 8 include physical and price contingencies.



Page 70                                      ANNEX 8
Annex 8, Table C: Procurement Contract Packaging'
Yuan    Procure-
Cont:ract Packages                                                              Million  ment Type
Chengdu Wastewater (CWW)
Civil Works Contracts                                                          Base cost
Cl   Interceptor sewer, secondary drainage, overflow chamber and pipe.           50.0       ICB
C2   Improvements and extensions to secondary sewer systern                       13.1      NCB
C3   Chengdu No.2 wastewater treatment works                                     183.5      ICB
Mechanical "Supply and Erect" Contracts
Ml   Grit vortex separators and clarifiers                                        7.5       ICB
M2   Aeration System including return/recycle pumps                               68.0      ICB
M3   Secondary sludge thickening system                                            6.0      ICB
M4   PriLmary sludge thickening                                                    1.5      NCB
MS   Sludge digestion system including boilers                                    34.0      ICB
M6   Sludge dewatering system                                                      7.5      ICB
Mechanical "Supply and Supervision of Erection" Contracts
NI   Inlet station pumps, screens and screw conveyors                             15.0      ICB
N2   Scrapers and Stirrers                                                         7.0      ICB
Electrical "Supply and Erect" Contracts
El   Electrical power supply                                                       9.5     NBGF
E2   HV and LV power distribution                                                 12.0      ICB
E3   Instrumentation, control and automation                                     29.5       ICB
Supply Contract
S3   Misc. Equipment: various contracts for laboratory equipment, tools and vehicles  6.2    NS
Land and Resettlement                                                            131.0     NBGF
Total Contract Cost                                                 581.3
Deyang Wastewater (DWW)
Civil Works Contracts
Cl   Main interceptor, including siphon                                          26.0       NCB
C2   Wastewater treatment works including inlet, WAS and AS return pumps, coarse and    123.0  ICB
fine screens, bridges and scrapers, vortex grit separators, brush aerators, and
dewatering equipment
C3   Link sewers and mnissing connections                                          5.2      NCB
Electrical "Supply and Erect Equipment" Contracts
El   Electrical power supply                                                       5.5     NBGF
E2   HV and LV power distribution                                                  7.0      ICB
E3   Instrumentation, control and automation                                      10.0      ICB
Goods and Equipment Supply Contracts
S1   Misc. Equipment: various contracts for laboratory equipment, tools and vehicles  3.8    NS
Land and Resettlement                                                            20.8      NBGF
Total Contract Cost                                                 201.3
Leshan Municipal Solid Waste (LSW)
Civil Works Contracts
C1   Transfer station, vehicle storage and repair facility, buildings, landfill initial clay  11.7  NCB
excavation and stockpiling (Part 1), treatment works
C2:  Landfill extension earthworks (clay excavating and, stockpiling Part 2)       3.9      NCB
Goods and Equipment Supply Contracts
SI   Supply of collection and transportation vehicles, containers, street sweeping trucks  8.7  ICB
S2    Supply of landfill operating equipment                                       6.0      ICB
S3    Supply of miscellaneous equipment for monitoring and office                  0.2       NS
' A detailed contract procurement implementation Schedule was prepared, and is in the Project File (see Annex 10).



Page 71                                     ANNEX 8
Yuan    Procure-
Contract Packages                                                              Million  ment Type
Mechanical Supply and Erect Contracts
Ml   Supply and installation of equipment for treatment works and landfill gas disposal  2.6  NCB
facility
Land and Resettlement                                                           25.9      NBGF
Total Contract Cost                                                 59.0
Leshan Water Supply (LWS)
Civil Works Contracts
Cl   Intake structure, raw water main, and pumps and screens                    27.0       NCB
C2   Transmission main                                                          18.0       NCB
C3   Treatment works including treated water and backwash pumps, air blowers and filter    65.0  ICB
nozzles, and chlorination and chemical dozing equipment
C4   Distribution system improvements                                            3.8       NCB
Electrical Supply and Erect Contracts
El   Power supply                                                                 5.0     NBGF
E2   HV and LV power distribution.                                               6.0       ICB
E3   Instrumentation, control and automation.                                    5.0       ICB
Goods and Equipment Supply Contracts
S1   Misc. equipment: various contracts for laboratory equipment, and vehicles    1.3      NS
Land and Resettlement                                                            9.4.     NBGF
Total Contract Cost                                                140.5
Leshan Wastewater (LWW)
Civil Works Contracts
Cl   Interceptor sewer                                                          29.5       NCB
C2   Outfall including tunnel                                                   55.5       ICB
C3   Pumping Stations (3) and pumping equipment                                  16.5      NCB
C4   Link sewers and missing connections                                         3.1       NCB
Electrical Supply and Erect Contracts
El   Power Supply                                                                0.5      NBGF
E2   Instrumentation Control and Automation                                      0.5       NCB
Goods and Equipment Supply Contracts
S1   Misc. Equipment: various contracts for laboratory equipment, tools and vehicles  2.6  NS
Land and Resettlement                                                             7.7     NBGF
Total Contract Cost                                                 115.9
Luzhou-Beijiao Water Supply (LBWS)
Civil Works Contracts
Cl   Treatment works including intake, forwarding pumps, and chlorination and chemical    14.0  NCB
dozing equipment
C2   Fuxi pipeline(33 kmn)                                                      47.0       NCB
C3   Nan Gao distribution mains (including pumping mains WTW-Wan Shan Ping and   9.0       NCB
WTW-Nan Gao tank)
C4   Booster station, Nan Goa and Er Dao Gou tanks, and booster pumps            6.0       NCB
C5   Distribution network improvements                                           2.5       NCB
Electrical Supply and Erect Contracts
El   Electrical power supply                                                     2.0      NBGF
E2   HV and LV power distribution                                                2.0       NCB
E3   Instrumentation, control and automation                                     3.0       NCB
Goods and Equipment Supply Contract
SI   Misc. equipment various contracts for laboratory equipment, tools and vehicles  2.0   NS
Land and Resettlement                                                             2.2     NBGF
Total Contract Cost                                                  89.7



Page 72                                      ANNEX 8
Yuan    Procure-
Contract Packages                                                               Million  ment Type
Luzhou Daxikou Water Supply (LDWS)
Civil Works Contracts
Cl   Access roads and site preparation                                            0.5      NCB*
C2   Intake including raw water main, and raw water pumps and screens            12.0       NCB
C3   Treatment works, include air blowers and nozzles, valves, treatment work pumps, and   46.5  NCB
chlorination and chemical dozing equipment
C4   Transmission main, valves and reservoir                                      7.0       NCB
C5   Distribution system improvements                                             2.7       NCB
Electrical Supply and Erect Contracts
El   Electrical power supply                                                       1.0     NBGF
E2   HV and LV power distribution                                                 2.5       NCB
E3   Instrunentation ,Control and Automation                                      3.5       ICB
Goods and Equipment Supply Contracts
SI   Misc. Equipment: various contracts for laboratory equipment, tools and vehicles  1.4   NS
Land and Resettlement                                                             4.1      NBGF
Total Contract Cost                                                  81.2
Zigong Water Supply (ZWS)
Civil Works Contracts
Cl   Access Roads                                                                 3.0       NCB
C2   Raw water main (from Nixi)                                                 110.5       ICB
C3   Treated water main                                                           8.0       NCB
C4   Pipe bridges                                                                  1.0      NCB
C5   Intake Pump Station at Nixi                                                  18.5      NCB
C6   Treatment works, new intake and pump station at Xushui, valves, and emergency  39.0    NCB
pipeline
C7   Distribution network improvements                                           11.2       NCB
Mechanical Supply and Erect Contracts
Ml   Intake Pumps (Yuanba and the Xushui)                                         10.0      ICB
M2   Blowers and filter floor nozzles                                             6.0       ICB
M3   Chlorination System                                                           1.5      NCB
M4   Chemical Dosing System                                                        1.0      NCB
M5   Valves and Miscellaneous Items                                               2.0       NCB
M6   Nixi Intake Pumps                                                            8.0       ICB
Electrical Supply and Erect Contracts
El    Electrical Power Supply                                                     13.5     NBGF
E2   High and low voltage power distribution                                       5.0      ICB
E3   Instrumentation, control and automation                                       5.0      ICB
Goods and Equipment Supply Contracts
S1    Supply of pipes (33 kin)                                                   62.0       ICB
S2   Supply of pipes (33km)                                                      62.0       ICB
S3    Supply of treated water pipes                                              12.5       ICB
S4   Supply of pipeline valves                                                    2.0       NCB
S5   Misc. equipment: various contracts for laboratory equipment, tools and vehicles  1.7   NS
Land and Resettlement                                                            33.4      NBGF
Total Contract Cost                                                 416.8
Zigong Wastewater (ZWW)
Civil Works Contracts
Cl   Interceptor, including pumping station and pumping equipment                58.0       ICB
C2   Link sewers and missing connections                                           6.0      NCB
C3   Wastewater treatment works, including screens, sludge dewatering equipment, mixers,  118.5  ICB
pumping equipment, scrapers and bridges, aeration system for tank and grit chambers,
blowers, and miscellaneous equipment



Page 73                                      ANNEX 8
Yuan    Procure-
Contract Packages                                                               Million  ment Type
Electrical Supply and Erect Contracts
El   Electrical power supply                                                      4.0      NBGF
E2   High and low voltage power distribution                                      6.5       ICB
E3   Instrumentation, control and automation                                      9.5       ICB
Goods and Equipment Supply Contracts
Si   Misc. equipment: various contracts for laboratory equipment, tools and vehicles  4.7   NS
Land and Resettlement                                                             10.0     NBGF
Total Contract Cost                                                 217.2
Urban Management Information Systems (UMIS)
Goods and Equipment Contracts
S1   Information Technology (at Design Stage)                                      1.0      NCB
S2   Informnation Technology (at Implementation Stage)                            5.5       NCB
S3   Office Equipment and Facilities                                               1.3      NCB
Consultants' Services
Tl   Advisory Assistance, System Design and Development, Training, Technical Project  10.3  QCBS
Management
T2   Topographic Mapping, Pipe Survey and Data Collection                         13.7    Least cost
T3   Topographic Map Survey for Luzhou [Retroactive Finance]                       0.8   Sole source
Total Contract Cost                                                  32.6
Environmental Protection and Rehabilitation (EPR)
Civil Works Contracts
Cl   Footpaths, drainage, sewerage and reception area (Leshan Grand Buddha)       5.5       NCB
CIA  Footpaths, drainage, sewerage and reception area (Leshan Grand Buddha)./     5.0       NCB
C2   Drainage of Buddha, access and consolidation of platformVl                   7.5       NCB
C3   Research center building, tourist reception center, lighting and infrastructure in tourist    9.8  NBGF
area, main gate roads and parking at Sanxingdui
Goods and Equipment Contracts
SI   Computers, Software, Audio Equipment (Leshan Grand Buddha))                  0.4       NCB
S2   Computers, software, audio equipment (Sanxingdui Museum)                     0.6      NBGF
S3   Equipment for laboratory and reception Center (Sanxingdui Museum)             1.9     NBGF
S4   Various Equipment for environmental monitoring (Chengdu Center)               1.9     NBGF
S5   Equipment and adaptation at Chengdu Center (various contracts)               4.9      NBGF
Consultants' Services
Ti   Training and strengthening management (Leshan)                                0.6      QBS
T2   Monitoring and analysis of Mahao Rock Tombs (Leshan)                          0.3      QBS
T3   Training and strengthening management (Sanxingdui)                           0.4      NBGF
T4   Restoration analysis and services (Sanxingdui)                                1.9     NBGF
T5   Training for Chengdu Center staff                                             3.3     NBGF
T6   Database for the cultural heritage include. Equipment and services           9.3      NBGF
Total Contract Cost                                                  53.3
* Modified local procedures, obtaining at least three quotations (refer Minutes of Technical Discussions -
subsequently confirmed as Negotiations - dated April 24, 1999).
1/ Some portion may be NBGF if IDA Credit proceeds are insufficient.



Page 74                                      ANNEX 8
Annex 8, Table D: Procurement-Institutional Development, Urban Management Information
System, Construction Supervision and Training
TA                                                             Person-months         Base Cost
Ref. Title                                                   National  Int'l/a  $ million (Y million)
A PACKAGE A: FINANCIAL/INSTITUTIONAL
SUPPORT! EQUIPMENT
Al: Chengdu Drainage Company                             230     20
A2: Deyang Wastewater Company                            140      10
A3: Leshan Municipal Utility Companies                   230     15
A4: Luzhou Municipal Utility Companies                   130      5
A5: Zigong Municipal Utility Companies                   170     20
A6:Training                                                                      1.8
(15.0)
Subtotal Package A                              920      70
Procurement Type: QCBS                                                             5.5
(45.6)
B PACKAGE B: CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION &:
QUALITY CONTROL
B 1: Chengdu Drainage Company                            150
B2: Deyang Wastewater Company                            110
B3: Leshan Municipal Utility Companies                   150
B4: Luzhou Municipal Utility Companies                   120
B5: Zigong Municipal Utility Companies                   120
B6: Provincial Project Management Office (SPMO)
Project Supervision Support and Equipment
Chief Resident Engineer                                     40
Senior Municipal Engineer                                    5
Mechanical & Electrical Expert                               2
Sewerage Commissioning Expert                                2
Control System Specialist                                    1
Subtotal Package B
Procurement Type: QCBS                                     650/b   50      Costed elsewhere /c
C PACKAGE C OTHER
C1: Min & Tuo River Basin Water Information Updat:e                              1.00
C2: Equipment and Support for Provincial and other Finance                       0.20
Bureaus
Subtotal Package C
Procurement Type: QCBS                                                             1.2
(10.0)
Total All Packages (excluding construction                              6.7
Supervision, Package B )                                             (55.6)
/a Person-months budgets include personnel and systems development and equipment.
/b Includes 140 person-months of core national personnel including: Deputy Chief Resident Engineer, Mechanical
& Electrical Expert, Water Supply and Sewage Treatment Commissioning Expert, and Control System
Specialist.
/c Construction Supervision Services & Quality Control cal.culated as follows: Civil Works ( 2.5 percent of
investment cost; and Equipment & Materials @ 1.0 percent of investment cost



Page 75                                 ANNEX 8
Annex 8, Table E: Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category   Credit Amount in  Loan Amount          Financing Percentage
$ million equivalent  in $ million
Civil Works                     1.80             63.50    40% of expenditure
Goods                          0.07              63.50    100% of foreign expenditures or
100% of local expenditures for
locally manufactured goods or 75%
of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultancy Services &         0.13              14.50    100% of expenditures
Training
Front-end Fee                                     1.50    100%
Unallocated                                       7.00    100%
Total Project Costs       2.00             150.00



Page 76                                  ANNEX 9
ANNEX 9: PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
China: Sichuan Urban Environment Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       18 months
First Bank mission (identification)               07/01/97                10/01/97
Appraisal mission departure                       01/30/99               03/15/99
Negotiations                                      03/15/99               04/21/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     10/01/99                10/01/99
Prepared by: Sichuan Project Management Office (SPMC)), under the direction of the Sichuan Provincial
Government Leading Group, and the Sichuan Construction Commission.
Preparation assistance: Trust Funds, provided by the Government of Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark
and Italy. The United Kingdom's Department of International Development (DFID) provided assistance
through their bilateral program with China..
Bank staff and Bank consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Sun Chongwu                        Environmental Assessment
Sandra Durham                      Financial Management Systems
Meredith Dearborn                  Document Processing
Jack Fritz                         Environmental Assessment
Vellet Fernandes                   Project Processing
Maninder Gill                      Resettlement
Chandra Godavitarne                Municipal Engineering
David Hanrahan                     Project Economics
Donald Hankey                      Environmental Protection and Rehabilitation
Patrick McCarthy                   Financial Analysis
Margaret Png                       Legal Matters
Geoffrey Read                      Task Management
Keiko Sato                         Institutional Analysis and Training
Tore Semb                          Solid Waste Management
You Ji                             Environmental 'Engineer and Interpreter
George Taylor                      Water Quality & Wastewater Treatment
Youhua Yu                          Financial Management Systems
Ming Zhang                         Urban Planning & Land Management
Zhang Zhun                         Water Supply & Institutional Strengthening



Page 77                                 ANNEX 10
ANNEX 10: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE*
China: Sichuan Urban Environment Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Borrower's Project Implementation Plan was reviewed during appraisal, found satisfactory, and
submitted to the Project File.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Back-to-Office Reports, Mission Notes (Nos. 1 and 2) and Aide Memoires (Nos. 1 through 5).
C. Other
1. Sichuan Urban Environment Project (SUEP)-Resettlement Action Plan-Overall Report, Southwest
Municipal Engineering Design & Research Institute of China with assistance from Mott MacDonald
Ltd., December 1998.
1.A Resettlement Action Plan (Revised and Updated Version) April 1999 - English and Chinese versions.
2. Sichuan Urban Environment Project (SUEP)-Environmental Assessment-Volumes I, II & III:
(Executive Summary, Main Report, Appendices respectively) Sichuan Research and Monitoring
Institute of Environmental Protection, December 1998.
3. Sichuan Urban Environment Project (SUEP)-Urban Water and Wastewater Resources Strategy.
Final Executive Summary Strategy Document and Main Report with Appendices, CowiConsult with
DHI and Sichuan Project Management Office (SPMO), August 1998.
4. Sichuan Urban Environment Project (SUEP)-Urban Water and Wastewater Resources Strategy.
Final Reports Working Papers Nos. 1 through 4 (Database Management; Hydraulic Modelling; Water
Quality Modelling; Water Resources Assessment. Danish Hydraulics Institute, March 1998.
5. Sichuan Urban Environment Project (SUEP)-Assessment Reports on a) Willingness - to Pay; b)
Institutional Strengthening and Training Needs, Consultant Team Tsinghua University, December
1998.
6. Sichuan Urban Environment Project-Cultural Heritage Strategic Master Plan-Resources Inventory
& Analysis, C. Lotti & Associati S.p.A. in cooperation with Instituto Italiano per l'Africa e l'Oriente
(IsIAO), October 1998.
7. Sichuan Urban Environment Project-Cultural Heritage Strategic Master Plan-Resources Inventory
& Analysis Report-Part I & II, C. Lotti & Associati S.p.A. in cooperation with IsIAO, November
1998.
8. Sichuan Urban Environment Project-Cultural Heritage Strategic Master Plan-Draft Strategy and
Analysis Report, C. Lotti & Associati S.p.A. in cooperation with IsIAO, September 1998.
9. Sichuan Urban Environment Project-Cultural Heritage Strategic Master Plan-Preliminary Design
And Cost Report, C. Lotti & Associati S.p.A. in cooperation with IsIAO.
10. Sichuan Urban Environment Project-Procurement Assessment Report-February 25, 1999.



Page 78                                 ANNEX 10
11. Sichuan and Chongqing Urban Environment Project-Urban Water and Wastewater Resources
Strategy-Executive Summary-Final, COWI in association with DHI and SUEPMO, CMMO of the
WBCU, August 1998.
12. Sichuan and Chongqing Urban Water and Wastewater Resources Strategy-Strategy Document-
Final, COWI in association with DHI and SUEPMO, CMMO of the WBCU, August 1998.
13. Workshop on Economics of Cultural Heritage--"Valuing the Invaluable: Approaches and
Applications". John A. Dixon, Program Team Leader, EEI, October 1, 1998.
14. Sichuan Urban Environment Project-Financial Projections-as at November 1998, Sichuan Project
Management Office, November 1998. Updated Version: April 1999.
15. Sichuan Urban Environment Project-Financial Management Systems Manual. SPMO-as of April
1999.
16. Draft Terms of Reference for (a) Package A-Institutional and Financial Strengthening, and (b)
Package B-Construction Supervision Services and Quality Control.
17. Procurement Schedule for Civil Works, Equipment and Materials.
18. Sichuan Urban Environmental Project (SUEP)-Feasibility Report, SUEPO and Mott MacDonald
Limited, February 1999.
Summary Report
Chengdu Wastewater
Deyang Wastewater
Leshan Wastewater
Leshan Waster Supply
Leshan Municipal Solid Waste
Luzhou Beijiao Water Supply
Luzhou Daxikou Water Supply
Zigong Water Supply
Zigong Wastewater
Institutional Strengthening and Training-Summary
Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan and Appendices A through F - April 1999
19. Sichuan Urban Environment Project (SUEP)-Appraisal Report of Proposed Urban Management
Information System Component, Canada Sichuan Information Management Consortium-AGLC Inc.,
1999.
20. Sichuan Urban Environment Project-Cultural Heritage Strategic Master Plan-Design Report and
Draft Tender Documents, C. Lotti & Associati S.p.A. in cooperation with IsIAO, March 1999.
Volume 1:  Structure of the Report and Summary of Proposed Measures and Relevant Costs
Volume 2:  Enhancement of the Lingyun Temple and Grand Buddha Monumental Area of
Leshan
Volume 3:  Enhancement of Sanxingdui Museum and Archaeological Area
Volume 4:  Chengdu Center for the Restoration and the Conservation of Cultural Relics (from
Project Code n. 19 to Project Code n.. 20)
Volume 5:  Design of the Sichuan Cultural Heritage Information System
Appendices 1-3: Drawings
*Including electronic files.



Page 79                                                        ANNEX 11
ANNEX 11: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
Status of Bank Group Operations in China, as of April 30, 1999
Difference
Between expected   Last PSR
and actual     Supervision
Fiscal                                                                   Original Amount in S Millions      disbursements     Rating /a
Project ID    Year            Borrower                       Purpose                IBRD       IDA  Cancel.   Undisb.   Orig       Frm   Dev  Imp
Rev'd  Obj  Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 106
Active Projects
CN-PE-3624    1992 Mn. Of Publ.Health              Infectious Diseases                  0.00   129.60    0.00      31.45     26.83   26.79  HS      S
CN-PE-3568    1992 ROC                             TianjinUrbDev&En                     0.00   100.00    0.00       15.49    12.42   -5.32  HS      S
CN-PE-3564    1992 Beijing Municipality           Beijing Environment                  45.00    80.00    0.00      25.28     20.02   12.22   S      S
CN-PE-3503    1992                                 Zouxian Thermal Powe               310.00     0.00    0.00        7.63     7.64    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3565    1992                                 Shanghai Metro Trans                 0.00    60.00    1.69        1.32      -.08    0.00   S     S
CN-PE-3534    1992  PRC                            ZhejiangProvTransp                 220.00     0.00    0.00       19.91    19.92   14.52   S      S
CN-PE-3632    1993 ROC                             Enviremnent Tech Ass                 0.00    50.00    0.00       10.70    11.06      .22   S     S
CN-PE-3627    1993 PRC                             Grain Distribution P               325.00    165.00    0.00    316.84   314.96   94.30   S       U
CN-PE-3616    1993 PRC                             Tianhuangping Hydro                300.00     0.00    0.00       65.95    50.41    0.00   S      HS
CN-PE-3592    1993 PRC                             Ref. Insf.& Preinv                   0.00    50.00    0.00       18.45    18.48    0.00  HS    NA
CN-PE-3580    1993 PRC                             So.Jiangsu Environ. Protect.       250.00     0.00    0.00        4.15      .48    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3567    1993 PRC                             Effective Teaching S                 0.00    100.00    0.00       6.25     4.64    4.70   S      S
CN-PE-3559    1993 PRC                            Agric. Support Servi                  0.00    115.00    0.00      10.40    -1.16    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3518    1993 PRC                             Guangdong Prov. Transport          240.00     0.00    0.00        2.08      .06    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3473    1993  PRC                            ZhejiangMulticities                  0.00    110.00    0.00      19.77    19.19    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3581    1993  PRC                            HenanProv. Transport               120.00     0.00    0.00        8.92     8.93    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3597    1993 PRC                             Taihu Basin Flood Co               100.00   100.00    0.00      47.43    43.08    0.00   S       S
CN-PE-3561    1993  PRC                            Sichuan ADP                          0.00    147.00    0.00       5.48     0.00    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3623    1993 PRC                             Financial Sector T.A                 0.00    60.00    0.00       18.53    16.33    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3533    1993                                 Tianjin Ind. n                     150.00     0.00   40.35       13.59    44.93    9.60   S      S
CN-PE-3570    1993  PRC                            Railway VI                         420.00     0.00    0.00      93.77    93.12    0.00   S       S
CN-PE-3512    1993  GovtofPeoplesRep.OfC           Shanghai PortRest.                 150.00     0.00   25.74        3.88    29.27    3.20   S      S
CN-PE-3644    1994 PRC                             Xiaolangdi Resettlement              0.00    110.00    0.00     25.53     10.12    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3641    1994 PRC                             Yangzhou Therimal Pow              350.00     0.00    0.00      73.39    58.82    0.00   S       S
CN-PE-3626    1994  GOC                            Fujian Prov Highway                140.00     0.00    0.00       58.63    39.29   11.14  HS    HS
CN-PE-3609    1994  GOC                            Sichuan Gas Dev & Conservation     255.00     0.00    0.00      121.72    72.23    0.00   S      U
CN-PE-3593    1994 PRC                             Songliao Plain ADP                   0.00   205.00    0.00      24.64   -11.85    0.00  HS       S
CN-PE-3562    1994 PRC                             Xiaolangdi Multipurpose            460.00     0.00    0.00        .48       .48    0.00  HS      S
CN-PE-3540    1994 PRC                             Loess Plateau                        0.00    150.00    0.00     27.92   -21.54    0.00   S       S
CN-PE-3502    1994 MOH                             Rur Health Manpower                  0.00    110.00    0.00     27.28     21.76    0.00   U      S
CN-PE-3504    1994  PRC                            Hebei/Henan National               380.00     0.00    0.00       39.36    11.01    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3586    1994  PRC                            Shanghai Environment               160.00     0.00    0.00       58.50    53.61    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3622    1994  Shanghai Municipal Govt        Shanghai M1P n                     150.00     0.00    0.00        7.36     7.37    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3633    1994 GovernmentofPRC                 Telecommunications                 250.00     0.00   30.00       14.55    44.55   -3.05  HS    HS
CN-PE-3595    1994 PRC                             Red Soils II Develop                 0.00    150.00    0.00     40.31     17.62    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3557    1994 PRC                             Forest Resource Dev                  0.00   200.00    0.00      40.42     14.68  -30.70   S      S
CN-PE-37156   1995 PRC                             JodineDef.Disorder                   7.00    20.00    7.00        1.77    11.44    -.32   S      S
CN-PE-36947   1995  GOC                            Sichuan Transmission               270.00     0.00    0.00      132.50   120.94   84.43   S      S
CN-PE-3647    1995  PRC                            EconomicLawReforn                    0.00     10.00    0.00       5.51     5.72    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3639    1995 PRC                             Southwest Pov. Reduc                95.00   200.00    0.00      135.27    28.38    0.00  HS      S
CN-PE-3634    1995  PRC                            Maternal Child Healt                 0.00    90.00    0.00       18.40     9.92    0.00  HS    HS
CN-PE-3603    1995  PRC                            Ent. Housing Soc. Se               275.00    75.00   20.00      196.98    156.61    9.26  HS     S
CN-PE-3598    1995                                 Liaoning Environment               110.00     0.00    0.00      64.96     54.88    0.00   S       S
CN-PE-3585    1995  GOC                            Shenyang Ind. Reform               175.00     0.00    0.00      97.54     52.68    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3493    1995  PRC                            Inland Waterways                   420.00     0.00    0.00      270.62   -10.79    0.00   S       S
CN-PE-3642    1995                                 Zhejiang Power Devt                400.00     0.00    0.00      129.95   -44.08    0.00   S      HS
CN-PE-3600    1995  PRC                            Technology Developme               200.00     0.00    0.00      123.15    45.73    0.00   S       S
CN-PE-3636    1995  PRC                            Basic Educ In Poor &                 0.00    100.00    0.00       3.38      -.63    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3596    1995  PRC                            Yangtze Basin Water                100.00   110.00    0.00       27.75    -16.90    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-36041   1995  MOF                            Fiscal & Tax Ref. &                 50.00    25.00    0.00       66.29    41.78    0.00   S      U
CN-PE-3612    1995  PRC                            Xinjiang Highway I                 150.00     0.00    0.00       41.95    33.63    0.00   S       S
CN-PE-3571    1995  PRC                            Railways Vn                        400.00     0.00   29.00      344.67   209.66    1.51   S       S
CN-PE-40513   1996 PRC                             2ndHenanProvHwy                    210.00     0.00    0.00      175.14    55.81    0.00   S       S
CN-PE-36950   1996  PRC                            BasicEd.PoorI                        0.00    100.00    0.00       9.05   -21.13    0.00   S       S
CN-PE-3652    1996  PRC                            2nd Shaanxi Prov Hwy               210.00     0.00    0.00      139.29    56.62    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3648    1996 Shanghai Mun. Govt              Second Shanghai Sewe               250.00     0.00    0.00      148.15    72.54    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3638    1996 PRC                             Seeds Sector Commer.                80.00    20.00    0.00      73.11     22.34    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3599    1996 YunnanProv. Gov.                Yunnan Environment                 125.00    25.00    0.00      139.11    20.95    0.00   U       S
CN-PE-3589    1996 PRC                             Disease Prevention                   0.00    100.00    0.00      68.97    59.63    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3563    1996 PRC                             Animal Feed                        150.00      0.00    0.00     138.78    113.97   22.13   S      S
CN-PE-3569    1996  PRC                            Shanghai-Zhejiang Hi               260.00      0.00    7.75     106.81    32.91   23.25   S      S



Page 80                                                      ANNEX 11
Difference
Between expected   Last PSR
and actual    Supervision
Fiscal                                                                Original Amount in S MiDlions     disbursements    Rating /a
Project ID    Year           Borrower                      Purpose               IBRD       IDA Cancel.   Undisb.  Orig        Frm   Dev  Imp
Rev'd  Obj  Prog
CN-PE-3646    1996 PRC                           ChongqinglndPolCt                 170.00     0.00   77.99     91.22   106.20    0.00   S      U
CN-PE-3602    1996 PRC                           Hubei Urban Env. Pro              125.00    25.00    0.00    123.98    78.98    0.00   U      U
CN-PE-34618   1996 PRC                           Labor Market Dev.                  10.00    20.00    0.00     23.99    22.66    0.00   s      s
CN-PE-3507    1996 GOC                           Ertan Hydro H                    400.00      0.00    0.00     23.48   -21.26    0.00   S    HS
CN-PE-3649   1996 CHINA                          Shanxi Poverty Allev               0.00   100.00    0.00      34.51    -5.88    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3594   1996 PRC                            Gsnsu Hexi Corridor                60.00    90.00    0.00    125.49    27.79    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-444S5   1997                               Shanghai Waigaoqiao              400.00      0.00    0.00    382.70    35.94    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-36952   1997 PRC                           Basic Ed. IV                        0.00    85.00    0.00     41.32   -24.85    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-34081   1997 PRC                           Xiaolangdi Multi. 11             430.00      0.00    0.00    323.36    92.85    0.00  HS    S
CN-PE-3650    1997 GOC                           Tuoketuo Power/Inner             400.00      0.00    0.00    391.00   144.78    3.51   S      S
CN-PE-3637    1997 PRC                           NatlRurWaterH                      0.00    70.00    0.00      62.02    11.81    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3590    1997 PRC                           QinbaMts.PovtyRed                 30.00   150.00    0.00     148.20    27.18    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3635    1997 PRC                           Voc.Ed.ReformProj                  10.00    20.00    0.00     11.98    -1.22    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-36405   1997 PRC                           Wanjiazhai Water Tra              400.00     0.00    0.00    320.09    13.42    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3654   1997 PRC                            Hunan/Guang Hwy2-Nh2              400.00     0.00    0.00    321.24    81.22    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-38988   1997 PRC                           HeilongjiangADP                   120.00     0.00    0.00     93.02    10.70    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3643    1997 PRC                           Xinjiang Highways 11              300.00     0.00    0.00    230.72    62.72    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-56491   1998 PRC                           Hebei Earthquake                    0.00    28.40    0.00      5.66   -13.33    0.00  HS    HS
CN-PE-51736   1998 GOC                           E. China/Jiangsu PwT              250.00     0.00    0.00    250.00   102.64    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-46952   1998 PRC                           Forest. Dev. PoorAr               100.00   100.00    0.00    200.68     9.17   18.34   S      S
CN-PE45788   1998 People's Republic of Chin      Tri-Provincial Hwy                230.00     0.00    0.00    230.00    43.54    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-36949   1998 Peoples Republic of China     Nat.Hwy 3-Hubei                   250.00     0.00    0.00    234.96      6.63    0.00   S     S
CN-PE-35698   1998 PRC                           Hunan Power Develop.              300.00     0.00    0.00    300.00    12.00    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3614    1998 People's Republic of Chin     Guangz. City Crt.Trp              200.00     0.00    0.00    192.00     7.12    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3591    1998 PRC                           State Farms Commerci              150.00     0.00    0.00    102.59   -30.24    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3539    1998 PRC                           Sust Coast Res Dev                100.00     0.00    0.00     96.00       .17    0.00   S     S
CN-PE-3619   1998 Ministry of Finance            2nd Inland Waterways              123.00     0.00    0.00    123.00    20.00    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-46563   1998 PRC                           Tafim Basin 11                     90.00    60.00    0.00    140.69     6.80    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3606    1998  GOC                          Energy Conservation                63.00     0.00    0.00     63.00     3.18    0.00   S      S
CN-PE40185   1998 PRC                            Shandong Environment               95.00     0.00    0.00     92.00    23.80    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-49700   1998 PRC                           IAIL-2                            300.00     0.00    0.00    280.00     7.30    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-36414   1998 CHINA                         Guangxi Urban Env.                 72.00    20.00    0.00     88.81    -1.03    0.00   S      S
CN-PE-3566    1998                               Basic Health                        0.00    85.00    0.00     81.04      -.20    0.00   S     S
CN-PE-63123  1999 PRC                            Yangtze Flood Emergy               40.00    40.00    0.00     79.16      3.34    0.00   S     S
CN-PE-51856   1999 Ministry of Finance           Acentg Reform & Dev                27.40     5.61    0.00     32.96      2.04    0.00
CN-PE-49665   1999 PRC                           Anning Valley Ag.Dev               90.00    30.00    0.00    119.00      3.60    0.00   S     S
CN-PE-36953   1999 PRC                           Health IX                          10.00    50.00    0.00     60.00      0.00    0.00
CN-PE-3653    1999 Peoples Republic of Chin      Container Transport                71.00     0.00    0.00     71.00      0.00    0.00   S     S
CN-PE-50036  1999 Peoples Republic of Chin       Anhui Provincial Hwy              200.00     0.00    0.00    200.00      9.94    0.00   S     S
CN-PE-41890  1999 People's Republic of Chin      LiaoningUrb Transp                150.00     0.00    0.00    150.00      0.00    0.00
Total                                                                           14,878.40  4,045.61  239.52   9,907.33  3,050.80  299.73
Active Projects      Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                      8,723.74             12,531.17             21,254.91
of which has been repaid:                           73.75               2,539.74              2,613.49
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                     18,610.68              9,624.01             28,234.69
Amount sold         :0.00                                                      0.00                  0.00
Of which Tepaid                                        0.00                  0.00                  0.00
Total Undisbursed                                    9,907.33                 20.27              9,927.60
/a Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Petrformance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.



Page 81                                            ANNEX 11
Statement Of IFC's Committed And Disbursed Portfolio
As of March 31, 1999 (In $ Millions)
Committed                                 Disbursed
FY                                      IFC                                       IFC
Approval        Company           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic       Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
0             Pacific Ports          0.00       3.64      0.00      0.00       0.00      3.64       0.00      0.00
1987/92/94    China Bicycles         8.50      3.39       0.00      0.00       8.50      3.39      0.00       0.00
1993          Shenzhen PCCP          3.76       .99       0.00      0.00       3.76       .99      0.00       0.00
1993          Yantai Cement         13.51       1.95      0.00      7.22      13.51      1.95       0.00      7.22
1994          China Walden JV        0.00      6.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      3.53      0.00       0.00
1994          China Walden Mgt       0.00       .01       0.00      0.00       0.00       .01       0.00      0.00
1994          Dalian Glass          20.50      2.40       0.00     40.50      20.50      2.40      0.00      40.50
1994          Dynamic Fund           0.00      12.35      0.00      0.00       0.00     10.08       0.00      0.00
1994/97       PTP Leshan            11.20      1.00       0.00     14.00      11.20      1.00      0.00      14.00
1995          Dupont Suzhou         23.36      4.15       0.00     46.80      23.36      4.15      0.00      46.80
1995          Newbridge Inv.         0.00      7.19       0.00      0.00       0.00      3.89      0.00       0.00
1995          Suzhou PVC            22.00      2.48       0.00     22.20      22.00      2.48      0.00      22.20
1996          Beijing Hormel         4.64       .50       0.00      4.95       4.64       .50       0.00      4.95
1996          Jingyang              40.00      0.00       0.00    100.00      40.00      0.00      0.00     100.00
1996          Nanjing Kumho         15.03      3.81       0.00     42.73      12.66      3.81       0.00     35.98
1996          TianjinKumho          11.17      0.00       0.00     33.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1996          Weihai Weidongri       3.83      0.00       0.00      0.00       3.83      0.00      0.00       0.00
1997          Ningbo                 0.00      2.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      2.00       0.00      0.00
1997          Orient Finance        13.33      0.00       0.00     16.67      13.33      0.00       0.00     16.67
1997          PTP Hubei             12.63      0.00       0.00     25.38      10.96      0.00       0.00     22.04
1997          Rabobank PTPC          2.40      0.00       0.00      2.40       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1998          Caltex Ocean          21.00      0.00       0.00     45.00      16.23      0.00       0.00     34.77
1998          Chengxin-IBCA          0.00       .36       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1998          Leshan Scana           6.10      1.35       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1998          Rabobank SHFC          2.75      0.00       0.00      2.75       2.25      0.00       0.00      2.25
1998          Zhen Jing              0.00      2.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      2.00       0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:    235.71  55.57      0.00    403.60     206.73      45.82      0.00    347.38
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1998          Chengdu Chemical       7.40      3.20       0.00      8.60
1997          CHINEFARGE            12.80      0.00       0.00     20.00
1998          EURECA                 0.00      3.00       0.00      0.00
1998          Jiangsu Coline         6.50      0.00       0.00      0.00
1997          Nissan/Dongfeng       20.20      0.00       0.00     27.00
1998          Orient Fin A Inc       3.33      0.00       0.00      0.00
1997          PTP Holdings           0.00      1.50       0.00      0.00
1998          Shanghai Krupp        30.00      0.00       0.00     78.44
1997          SMC                   14.00      0.00       0.00     14.00
1996          Tianjin                9.10      0.00       0.00      9.10
1998          Wuhan Cig              0.00      1.50       0.00      0.00
1998          Wuhan Port             5.00      0.00       0.00      5.00
1998          XIB                   50.00     20.00       0.00      0.00
1998          Zhejiang Coline        6.50      0.00       0.00      0.00
1998          Zhen Jing              4.50      0.00       0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    169.33   29.20       0.00    162.14



Page 82                                                         ANNEX 12
ANNEX 12: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Asia &   middle-
China    Pacific   income       Development diamond
1997
Population. mid-year (millions)                      1,227 2     1,751     2,283                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, Us$)    N60                         970      1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     1,055.4     1,700     2,803
Average annual growth, 1992-98                                                                          T
Population (%/6)                                        1 0        1.3       1.2
Laborforce(%)                                            1.1       1,6       1.5      GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Moat recent estimate (latest yearavallatic. 1992-98)                                  capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of popilation below nationl povery yline)      7
Urban popuiation (% of total population)                 33        33         42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         70        69         69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live bihths)                 32        37         36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               16         20        17                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpopulation)                    90         77        78
tilmeracy (% of population Age 15+): -                   19         16        t6
Grose primary enrollment (%of school-age Population)    120        118       114        -Chma
Male                                                  121       120        116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             1 120        119        114     _       _      _       _     _    _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      IS 99s 
i Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                           172,3    268.2      902.0     956.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 2.!5     36.1       38.2      39,0
Exports of goods and services/GDP              4.5     13.6       23.0      21.7                     Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                    29.0     36 2       42.7      43.6
Gross national savingslGOP                    29.0     3'.2       39.4      41.7
Current account batancelGOP                    0:3      .0.1       2.9       2.7            .                          smn
Interest paymentsiGDP                          ,        0.4  0      .6       0,7      Domestic        Investment
Totai debflGDP                                   ..    13.2       16.3      16.7
Total debt servicelexports                      ..      9          8.7       9.9
Present valueof debtfGDP                         ..       .       14.9
Present va!uc of debtlexpons                     ..      ..       63.9   :
:  :   B          ~~~~Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998   1999-03
?average annual growth)
GOP                                   9 8     10.3      8.8        7,8       7.0          - China
GNP per capita.                       8.5   :  8.61     7.4        6.5       6.1        |      Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        18.4     14:6     23.1        4.6       4.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   29.4     26.8       18.7      17. 6
Industry                                      47.1     43.9       49.2      49.3    20
Manufacturing                               31.1      34.4      37.3       370      10
Services                                      23.4     29.3       32.1      33.1
Private consumption                           63.4     51.3       45.7      43.7            93   94   95   96   97   98
General government consumption                 7.5      12.5      11.6      12.8     |_  G31    - G
Imports of goods and services                  4.2     13.5       18.5      17.1
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998    I Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth) 
Agriculture                                    6.4      4.4        3.5       3.5    40
Industry                                      10.9     14.1       10.8       8.8    3x
Manufacturing                                11.4     13.4        9.9       7.8
Services                                      12.7      8.6        8.3       8.5
Private consumption                            9.7      8.6        6.2       5.1                                       5.t
General government consumption                 9.0      9.9        8.2       7.8
Gross domestic investment                     10.7     11.7        5.6      10.0            s3   94   95   5S   57   98
Imports of goods and services                 19.2     12.5       12.7       1.5             - Exports             iwports
Gross national product                        10.0      10.0       8.5       7.5
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 83                                                       ANNEX 12
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                    30
(r change)
Consumer prices                                ..      7.3       7.9      -0.8    20
Implicit GDP deflator                         1.6      5.1       1.2      -1.8     10
Government tinance                                                                  o     _'        _' _'
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                        93   94   95   96   97   98
Current revenue                                ..    21.5       12.0      13.1    -10
Current budget balance                         ..      4.2       0.6      -2.2               -GDP deflator 0-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -2.1       -1.5      -4.0
TRADE
1977    1987       1997     1998       Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  39,437   182,670   183,610    oco 000
Food                                         ..   4,781      11,054    9,960
Fuel                                         ..   4,544      6,987    2,914      150,000
Manufactures                                  ..  26,206   158,767   161,935
Total imports (ci)                             ..  43,216   142,361   140,226      00i00 
Food                                         .. 3,055        6,308     6,119    050,0D
Fuel and energy                                      539    10,306     9,275
Capitalgoods                                  ..  21,110    57,930    58,515         of
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      75         95       91             92  93  94  95  95  97  98
Import price index (1995= 100)                  .      75         89       87                  0 Exports     a Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      99        107      105
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977    1987       1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio t%)
(US$ fnillions)                                                                                                            i
Exports of goods and services               8,550   39,120   207,253   207,140     4T
Imports of goods and services               8,148   38,880   166,755   163,266
Resource balance                              402     240    40,498   43,874       2i
Net income                                     82    -164   -15,900   -19,842
Net currenttransfers                            0     249      1,832    2,163      0
1   92   X    94   95   96   97  99
Current account balance                      484      325    26,430    26,195
Financing items (net)                       -390    4,458      9,427   -22,662
Changes in net reserves                       -94   -4,783   -35,857    -3,533    |4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..       ..  143,363
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              1.9      4.5       8.3       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1996     1997     -
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..  35,340   128,817   146,697
IBRD                                          ..   1,427     7,616    8,239
IDA                                          ..   1,330      7,579     7,830    i                  A: 8,239  7
G: 31,464        s: 7.830        l
Total debt service                             ..   3,852    15,756    18,445                                    2,904
IBRD                                         ..    208         840      858
IDA                                          ..      12         73       81                                    E 202, 82
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              ..    209         249      228
Official creditors                                  626      4,401     4,315
Private creditors                            ..   5,462      6,454     8,134
Foreign direct investment                    ..   2,314    40,180   44,236
Portfolio equity                             ..       0      3,466     8,457                  F: 75,478
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..   1,306      1,900    2,425      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                ..    702       2,097     2,275     B- IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         ..      97        364      377      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                    ..    605       1,734     1,898
Interest payments                            ..    124         549      562
Net transfers                                ..    482       1,185     1,335
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                      4127199



MAP SECTION



IBRD 30125
1 04-           C H  IH  NA                                  MONGOLIA   (            ' o    JUN
C C,       ">
SICHUAN URBAN                                                    _  
-      ENVIRONMENT PROJECT   ' --, e
SHANHO
/ ~    ~     ~      -    .   \0                                    2<7  ~      A SHAANXW A t 1,,
10~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~(,O MONGI ,5                          HUEIE-
GSCU             N I -i \*
''\_SN HUNAN< '-
I                                                                  ',        $              ,,,N\t jYUNNAN
THAILAN C                         PILIP rNE
eyng I~.                                  ~                 
n                                        1 \LO\NN 105
I                                                                             -        'X     HG KAPROJECT.  31
<\3   >                         ,         ,                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A WATER SUPPLY
StS   i 0 \0Su   <            9       (e                       e      ~~~~~~~~WASTEWATER
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
K'                                                            ThLOD, enPg  u  - MdAND REHABILITATION ASSETS
_ t h 0 a .g ) \ ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~SOLID WASTE
D> '7<gy  a              
N     -"'a)   (   X   X   t   <   S   \                                                        MINRIVERBASIN
,>   '9          \5     o',                                                     WATER S  ,TUO RIVER BASIN
\                                                               WASTEW'   _ j  MAIN RIVERS
,".  N 0  j _ .....  Chendu            "i  9'   ENVIROTHER RIVERS
/;  .-,                    AND REH\4D   <   < MAJOR CITIES
, /   .:- ' , :.- .-,-1.OTHER;RIVERS
',-.E'.~~~~~ I-                                                                 i '     s        .-...,  MA...jOR... CIISS %  
9             C        7             X        ,-\                        300_
,:~~~~~~~~~~~~, 0- d ;0e'    '-   d:f                                                      0'      -
29  N'                                                                                                         Luzou29
I   I    I                                                                      The boundaries, colors, denominations ond anyother information shown
KILOMETERS                                                            o. thi. map dho not^ imiply, on the pa*rtf he Worl Bank -p anomny 
en   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:''                  jdmeto,tefaa tau f aytrrtr, roy noseeto
_4                                              acceptnceIof such boundaries.
MAY 1999



