Report No. PID5606
Project Name                     China-Sichuan Urban Environment   (@+#)
Project
Region                           East Asia & Pacific
Sector                           Urban/Environment
Project ID                       CNPE43933
Borrower                         People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency              Sichuan Provincial Construction Commission
Mr. Lu Qiang, Senior Architect
No. 40, South Renmin Road
Chengdu, Sichuan Province
People's Republic of China
Tel: (86-28) 557-1036
Fax: (86-28) 557-1037
Date PID Prepared                March 11, 1999
Projected Appraisal              March 1999
Projected Board Date             June 1999
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background
Sichuan Province is a traditionally agricultural region in south-central
China, home to some 85 million people. The central government's policy
between 1987 and 1992 of providing incentives for growth in coastal areas left
behind inland provinces such as Sichuan. However, recent attention to the
resulting regional income disparities has prompted the government to promote
economic incentives and infrastructure investments in the inland areas.
Sichuan's economy responded quickly, growing by 12.8 percent in 1993 (compared
to a national average of 13.4 percent), with growth led by town and village
enterprises (TVEs) and the private sector. More recent estimates show
continued strong growth. Sichuan's capital city, Chengdu (1995 urban
population 3.0 million), forms part of an emerging urban industrial corridor
which stretches southeast as far as the newly-designated municipality of
Chongqing, now the world's largest single municipality.
Sichuan's economic growth in terms of industrial and agricultural production
has come at the cost of increased pollution of its water and land resources.
Pollution is concentrated in Sichuan's two major river basins, the Min and the
Tuo, both of which drain into the Yangtze River. Wastewater discharges from
urban areas contribute substantially to pollution loads.
Development in this corridor attracts migrant workers from the surrounding
villages, who typically take low income jobs and do not have legal urban
registrations. Once in the cities, these workers have only limited access to
public services. As income opportunities in agriculture shrink and urban-
rural income disparities grow, the size of this "floating population" has
increased substantially, exacerbated by lessening restrictions on in-
migrations; as the number of registered and non-registered urban residents
grows, urban areas are experiencing increasing pressure to provide affordable
and accessible municipal services.



Currently, the capacity for wastewater treatment in urban areas is limited.
Except for industries which undertake their own treatment, there are few
facilities for domestic wastewater treatment in Sichuan; for example, only 13
percent of Chengdu's wastewater is treated in the municipal facility.
Deficits in the water supply sector have been projected for several project
cities, including Chengdu, unless the present capacity is augmented.
Currently, state-owned enterprises (SOEs) provide about one third of Sichuan's
domestic water supply, often as part of their services to state employees or
nearby residential areas. As the prominence of SOEs in economic development
decreases, many of these water supply services will cease operations, putting
additional demand on municipal providers.
Expansion of water and wastewater management capacity is hampered by the weak
financial situation of service providers; typically these are water supply
companies, and government departments for drainage and solid waste management.
These entities find themselves in a transition phase where the traditional
government subsidies have been reduced but tariffs and charges for municipal
services do not yet cover the full cost of operation and maintenance. The
province now encourages the creation of financially autonomous municipal
companies, but such companies tend to lose money due to weak financial and
operational management capacity, and relatively high per capita water demand,
which in part is the result of low tariffs which do not induce efficient water
use. Thus the three major issues facing Sichuan with regard to the urban
environment are: (i) environmental degradation, (ii) infrastructure
constraints, and (iii) financially weak municipal service providers.
Government Strategy: To address the growing need for municipal services,
the provincial government plans to curb pollution from urban and industrial
sources and to expand and improve municipal water supply systems. Ambitious
pollution control targets have been set for the year 2000, including a cap on
the total amount of heavy metals in industrial wastewater at 1995 levels, and
the improvement of surface water quality to meet national standards. Twenty-
five percent of domestic and 65 percent of industrial wastewater will be
collected and treated, far more than the present levels. To reach these
targets, the province must tighten the enforcement of existing standards, in
particular for industrial pollution control; expand the capacity of wastewater
collection and treatment systems; and improve solid waste management. Water
supply plans include the remodeling of existing systems, and construction of
new systems to provide water to urban residents in the Min and Tuo river
basins.
2.      Objectives
The primary objective of the proposed project is to provide a safe
environmental setting for sustainable growth of urban areas in Sichuan
Province. The project would support the province in implementing a long term
program to: a) begin to recover from past environmental degradation of water
and land resources; b) provide an adequate supply of safe water to some of
the growing urban population and economy; and c) maintain water quality at
levels compatible with the needs of the Yangtze River Basin. The proposed
project would be the initial phase of a long-term Bank-assisted urban
environmental services improvement program for Sichuan.
Progress toward this objective would be measured in terms of
a) reduction of pollution loads from the urban sector through selective high-
- 2 -



impact wastewater and solid waste management improvements; b) expansion of
capacity for supplying safe water in urban areas; and c) strengthened
financial viability and institutional autonomy of municipal services.
3.      Description
The project would finance municipal service improvements in five urban areas
in the Min and Tuo river basins in Sichuan Province, with a total urban
population of about 5.7 million. The project would rely on a blend of policy
and investment initiatives. Financial and policy reform would support a
stronger market orientation for municipal service pricing. Targeted
investments would support the expansion of urban environmental infrastructure,
primarily in the wastewater, water, and municipal solid waste sectors in the
Min and Tuo river basins. The project would also provide technical assistance
to strengthen the financial and operational management of municipal services
providers, as well as the province's capacity for region wide environmental
and water resource management. The project would include the following
components:
(a) Wastewater Management and Solid Waste Management: Investments would
support sewer and stormwater collection systems, pump stations, and wastewater
treatment and disposal facilities in Chengdu City and adjacent urban areas in
the cities of Deyang, Leshan and Zigong, growing cities located in the Min and
Tuo river basins, and cost-effective solid waste disposal systems in Leshan.
(b) Urban Water Supply: Investments would support the remodeling and
upgrading of water supply and distribution in Leshan, Luzhou and Zigong,
located in the Min and Tuo river basins.
(c) Urban Management and Information Systems: Development of an OMSS for
wastewater management in Leshan, and water supply management in Luzhou;
Underground Pipe Survey: development of a water and wastewater database for
Leshan and Luzhou; Topographic Mapping: development of foundation data for
Leshan, Luzhou and Zigong.
(d) Cultural Heritage Asset Management: Improvements to the Leshan Great
Buddha site and Sanxingdui Museum; establishment of a conservation laboratory
and associated training program.
(e) Institutional Strengthening: Strengthening of provincial, municipal, and
project entities in project and financial management; provision of
construction management and supervision services; training in utility
operations, finance and urban services delivery.
4.      Financing
Total project cost is estimated to be about $353 million, of which the
Bank loan would cover an estimated $152 million. The remainder would be
financed by the government and the State Development Bank of China.
5.      Implementation
Project Management: Sichuan Province has established a Leading Group to
oversee project preparation and implementation, led by the provincial
Construction Commission, with support from the Finance Bureau, the Planning
Commission, and the Environmental Protection Bureau. Under the Leading Group,
the Sichuan Project Management Office (SPMO) would coordinate, manage and
supervise day-to-day project implementation activities. The project is
expected to be implemented over a five-year and a half period.
Implementing agencies: Project components would be implemented by the
following agencies:
-3-



Newly created Wastewater Companies (WWCs) would be responsible for the
implementation of the sewerage and drainage components. These services are
currently provided by the wastewater divisions of the municipal departments.
To improve the financial sustainability of the sector, this project would be
implemented through self-accounting and self-financing wastewater entities.
The establishment of such wastewater companies would be a condition of project
processing, to be undertaken early in the cycle.
Municipal Water Supply Companies (WSCs) would implement the water supply
component. These would be responsible for construction management, production,
operation and maintenance, consumer service, and administration of the water
supply systems in their respective jurisdictions. The municipal Price Bureau
and Planning Commission are responsible for regulation of both the WSCs and
the WWCs.
Solid waste and nightsoil management would remain the responsibility of the
municipal maintenance and sanitation department.
The Urban Information and Cultural Heritage components would be managed by the
concerned city government or the provincial government, as appropriate.
6.      Project Benefits, Sustainability and Risks
Benefits. The proposed project would help Sichuan to put in place the
policies, institutions, and infrastructure to sustain environmental quality
and improve urban services in a period of strong growth. The project would
generate benefits in the following areas:
(a) Environmental Benefits: improved ambient water quality in rivers currently
at risk, in particular the Tuo and Min Rivers, through reduced pollution loads
from urban wastewater and waste and more effective, GIS supported, region wide
water quality monitoring.
(b) Health Benefits: reduced incidence of water pollution-related diseases as
a result of improved water supply and wastewater systems and reduced surface
water pollution near water intakes.
(c) Improved Municipal Services: expanded coverage of water distribution,
waste water collection, treatment, and disposal, as well as municipal solid
waste disposal services for the urban population of Chengdu and selected
secondary cities;
(d) Institutional Reforms: strengthened financial and management autonomy will
enable utilities to sustain and expand the provision of essential services for
a growing population. Support for institutional development would ensure the
long-term sustainability of the organizations and of the physical investments.
Sustainability. The project is expected to be sustainable in three respects:
(i) financially; (ii) institutionally; and (iii) in achieving its development
objectives. Tariff reforms would enhance the financial viability of municipal
service providers. Institutionally, the creation of financially independent
wastewater companies and continued technical assistance for the participating
institutions would strengthen utility management and water quality monitoring
capacity. Finally, the project addresses an issue of high priority to both
the local and the national governments: vital self-interest in achieving
environmental conditions necessary for sustained economic growth would be a
strong motivation to continue implementing the long-term water resource
strategy.
Risks. Project risks vary across subcomponents. Potential delays in
implementing wastewater tariff structures and the sustainability of fledging
- 4 -



financially autonomous wastewater companies in project cities are countered by
ensuring the initial formation steps are taken during project preparation. A
slightly higher risk is the possible delay or slow implementation of
complementary efforts in the reduction of industrial and agricultural
pollution, needed to maximize environmental benefits in the province. As part
of project appraisal, SPMO would present a time-bound industrial pollution
management Action Plan for a non-Bank financed program that would
simultaneously address pollution control issues in these other sectors. The
basin-wide water monitoring and resource management information system
financed under this project would track sources of pollution and success in
attaining water quality targets, and would allow provincial planners to more
precisely target future investments.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Greater Reliance on User Charges: OED review of Bank water and
sanitation projects has shown a generally good achievement of physical targets
but less success in sustaining the financial viability of municipal service
providers. Recent sector work on China ("Urban Environmental Service
Management", Report #13073-CHA) supports these findings, noting the need for
greater reliance on user charges, which are presently levied at unsustainable
levels: municipal solid waste user charges, for example, would have to triple
from present levels to provide sufficient funding for sustainable collection
and disposal operations. The report concludes that adequate charges for solid
waste and water supply would be affordable, induce resource conservation and
create a more dependable income stream for the sector agencies. Hence, tariff
reforms have been a centerpiece of the policy dialogue with the Sichuan
government and adjustments of tariff levels are an integral part of the
project design.
[Note:   Lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects financed by the
Bank and other development agencies.]Timing of tariff increases: Previous
urban environment projects in China have frequently encountered difficulties
implementing agreed tariff increases in a timely manner, sometimes delaying
project implementation by six months or more. Tariff increases often
represent politically difficult decisions for local governments, but are
critical for the sustainability of the project. To avoid such delays after
loan effectiveness, and to ensure that changes meet the approval of all
relevant authorities, the design of this project intends that tariff
adjustments be implemented during the preparation stage, as early as project
appraisal.
Support for institutional management. The establishment of financially
autonomous utility enterprises to develop and manage urban services is a long-
standing Chinese practice, and avoids many of the management difficulties of
publicly-owned utilities in other countries. However, wastewater collection
and treatment has only recently been given this same autonomy, generally by
absorbing the existing drainage bureaus and construction management units
already active in the sector into separate enterprises. The prior experience
of these bureaus will undoubtedly allow a smoother transition, but high levels
of technical assistance will be needed to strengthen the new enterprises'
financial, managerial, and technical capacities. Tariffs, charges, and
reallocation of existing taxes and urban construction charges would help
ensure adequate funds for operation and management. The establishment of
financially autonomous utilities prior to project implementation would allow
- 5 -



sufficient time for management and operational issues to be clarified.
Sufficient preparation time and budget. Experience in China has shown that
first-time projects demand significantly greater time and monetary investments
in the preparatory and initial implementation phases than those managed by
experienced project entities. As this has been the Bank's first involvement
in the urban environmental services sector in Sichuan, a longer lead time than
usual has been needed to develop clear understanding of institutional and
services delivery arrangements. Resources were allocated for both preparation
and supervision, and will be required from government to finance the technical
assistance that will be crucial to building strong institutions. The
experience gained in this project would ensure smoother implementation for
later urban environment loans in the province.
8.      Poverty Category
The Primary Program Objective Category is environmentally sustainable
development, to provide a safe environmental setting to sustain the long term
growth of Sichuan Province.
9.      Environmental Aspects
The project has been categorized as environmental Category A, primarily
due to the environmental relationship between the project and the Yangtze
River Basin, including the Three Gorges Project, and environmental concerns
related to the treatment of wastewater and sludges. In addition to a standard
Category A Environmental Assessment, consideration was given to the impact of
the Three Gorges Dam on the absorptive capacity of receiving water bodies.
This has been allowed for in the determination of acceptable pollution levels
for discharges from the wastewater treatment plants.
10.     Program Objective Categories
Environmentally Sustainable Development
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 12, 1999.
- 6 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-7-



