                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000377




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-44960 IDA-32510)




                                     ON A

                              LOAN AND CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 100 MILLION AND SDR1.5 MILLION
                        (US$ 102 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                    FOR A

                   SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT


                               November 28, 2007




Urban Development Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective January2007)

                 CurrencyUnit = Yuan
                     1.00 = US$ 0.13
                 US$ 1.00 = Yuan 7.8

                     FISCAL YEAR
               January1 to December 31

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOD        Biological Oxygen Demand
CDC        Chengdu Drainage Company
COD        Chemical Oxygen Demand
DWTC       Deyang Wastewater Treatment Company
EA         Environmental Assessment
EPB        Environmental ProtectionBureau
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GIS        Geographic Information System
ICR        Implementation Completion & Results (Report)
IDA        International Development Association
IPCAP      Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan
FIDIC      Federation Internationale des Ingenieurs Conseils
LESMB      Leshan Solid Waste Management Board
LEWTC      Leshan Wastewater Treatment Company
LGBSA      Leshan Grand Buddha Site Administration
LUWSC      Luzhou Water Supply Company
MIS        Management Information System
MOF        Ministry of Finance
NDRC       National Reform& Development Commission
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PDO        Project Development Objective
PPMO       Sichuan Provincial Project Management Office
PHRD       Policy and Human Resources Development (Japan)
PIA        Project Implementing Agencies
PSP        Private Sector Participation
QEA        Quality at Entry
QSA        Quality of Supervision Assessment
RAP        Resettlement Action Plan
SEPA       State Environmental Protection Agency
SP         Sichuan Province
SPG        Sichuan Provincial Government
SUEP       Sichuan Urban Environment Project
UMIS       Urban Management Information System
UNESCO     United Nations Educational Scientific & Cultural Organization

     Vice President: James W. Adams
   Country Director: David R. Dollar
    Sector Manager: Keshav Varma
Project TeamLeader: Hiroaki Suzuki
  ICR TeamLeader: Hiroaki Suzuki

                                                 CHINA
                          Sichuan Urban Environment Project




                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector andTheme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................1
 2. KeyFactors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes..............................................5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes..........................................................................................10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................14
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.....................................................15
 6. Lessons Learned .......................................................................................................21
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners..........22
 Annex 1. KeyPerformance Indicators..........................................................................24
 Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................27
 Annex 3. Outputs byComponent.................................................................................30
 Annex 4. Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan.......................................................32
 Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis.................................................................34
 Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............41
 Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance..................................43
 Annex 8. Summaryof Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.....................44
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents......................................................................59
 MAP

A. Basic Information
                                                                     SICHUAN URBAN
Country:                China                 Project Name:          ENVIRONMENT
                                                                     PROJECT
                                                                     IBRD-44960,IDA-
Project ID:             P043933               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                     32510,JPN-26426
ICR Date:               11/28/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:              PRC
OriginalTotal
                        USD 102.0M            Disbursed Amount:      USD 44.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Sichuan Provincial Construction Commission
Cofinanciers andOther External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised/ Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/11/1997    Effectiveness:       06/08/2001          06/08/2001
Appraisal:             03/13/1999    Restructuring(s):                        06/12/2004
Approval:              06/17/1999    Mid-termReview:                          11/17/2003
                                     Closing:             06/30/2006          01/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Ratingby ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (byICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at EntryandImplementationPerformance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance             Indicators            (if any)                Rating

Potential ProblemProjectNo                    Quality at Entry
                                                                   Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
ProblemProject at any                         Quality of
                        No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                        Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as %of total Bankfinancing)
Other social services                                           1
Sewerage                                                       51                 84
Solid waste management                                          2                  5
Sub-national government administration                          8                  5
Water supply                                                   38                  6


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Municipal finance                                            Secondary         Secondary
Municipal governance and institution building                 Primary          Primary
Other urban development                                       Primary          Primary
Pollution management and environmental health                 Primary          Primary
Water resource management                                     Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:         James W. Adams                     Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:       David R. Dollar                    Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:         Keshav Varma                       Keshav Varma
Project TeamLeader:     Hiroaki Suzuki                     Geoffrey Read
ICR TeamLeader:         Hiroaki Suzuki
ICR Primary Author:     A. D. C. Godavitarne




                                             ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To provide a safe environmental setting for the sustainable long-term economic growth
of urban areas in Sichuan Province.

RevisedProject Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target Formally              Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised           Achievedat
                                               approval           Target         Completion or
                                              documents)          Values          Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Reduction of pollution load fromUrban Sector Measured by water quality of the
                Min River downstreamof Chengdu
Value
quantitative or Class IV                  Class II                             Class IV
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/1999                  01/31/2007                           12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Clearly defined indicators/targets were not defined at project appraisal.

achievement)    Supervision teamhas set up the indicator/target value at a later stage.

Indicator 2 :   Reduction of pollution load fromUrban Sector Measured by water quality of the
                Min River at Leshan
Value
quantitative or Class III                 Class III                            Class III
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/1999                  01/31/2007                           12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Clear and measurable indicators/targets were not defined at project appraisal.

achievement)    Supervision teamhas set up the indicator/target value at a later stage.

Indicator 3 :   Reduction of pollution load fromUrban Sector Measured by water quality of the
                Tuo River at Deyang
Value
quantitative or Class IV                  Class III                            Class IV
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/1999                  01/31/2007                           12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Clear and measurable indicators/targets were not defined at project appraisal.

achievement)    Supervision teamhas set up the indicator/target value at a later stage.




                                               iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achievedat
                                               approval          Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Expansion of supply of safe water to meet urban demand: Water Service
                Coverage in Luzhou
Value
(quantitative 24 km2 (45%)                32 km2 (65%)                       32 km2 (65%)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/1999                  01/31/2007                         06/15/2006
Comments        100% achievement. Clear and measurable indicators/targets were not defined at
(incl. %        project appraisal. Supervision teamhas set up the indicator/target value at a
achievement) later stage

Indicator 2 :   Reduction of pollution load measured by the weight of solid waste disposed of in
                sanitary landfill
                0 ton/day (180 tons of
Value           solid waste were collected
(quantitative in city area p/day and      200 tons/day                       220 tons/day
or Qualitative) disposed of in non-
                sanitary landfill)
Date achieved 06/30/1999                  01/31/2007                         06/15/2006
Comments        100% achievement. Clear and measurable indicators/targets were not defined at
(incl. %        project appraisal. Supervision teamhas set up the indicator/target value at a
achievement) later stage

Indicator 3 :   Reduction of pollution load measured by the quantity of wastewater collected
                and treated in Chengdu, Deyang and Leshan. (m3/day)

Value                                     No target was set

(quantitative 400,000                     (Plan was                          Additional 500,000
or Qualitative)                           additional
                                          500,000)
Date achieved 06/30/1999                  06/30/1999                         12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Clear and measurable indicators/targets were not defined at project appraisal.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                        IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/30/1999            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/28/1999            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     06/08/2000            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  4     12/15/2000            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  5     06/12/2001            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.00
  6     11/27/2001            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.00


                                               iv

  7   05/01/2002        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      1.43
  8   08/12/2002        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      3.84
  9   12/19/2002        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      4.43
  10  04/28/2003        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      4.43
  11  10/23/2003        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      7.34
  12  12/12/2003        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      7.34
  13  06/29/2004        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     14.08
  14  07/27/2004        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     17.04
  15  11/10/2004        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     21.03
  16  06/23/2005    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                     36.78
  17  12/07/2005        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     36.78
  18  12/13/2006        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     45.69



H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at    Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at     Reasonfor Restructuring&
    Date(s)    Approved                    Restructuring
              PDO Change                                      Key Changes Made
                             DO       IP     in USD
                                             millions

  06/12/2004        N          S       S        13.08    Not a restructuring (entered and
                                                         recorded in systemby mistake)




I. Disbursement Profile




                                           v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
In 1996, the population of Sichuan Province (SP) was 100 million. It was predominantly
rural (84%), and had an urban population growing at 3.2 % per year. Chengdu, the
largest city, had a population of about 10 million. Sichuan was one of the poorest
provinces in Western China, with an average GDP per capita between 1990 and 1995 of
about RMB 3,000 (US$ 360), representing a growth rate of about 12.2 % per annum in
real terms.

The principal environmental problems faced bySP were: untreated domestic and
industrial wastewater discharged into manyof the rivers in the Province; the deteriorating
water qualityof the Min and Tuo Rivers which eventuallyflow into the Yangtze River;
the lack of adequate environmental infrastructure; and the securityof drinking water
sources. More than half of the pollution discharges entering the two rivers were from
fertilizer, pulp paper and mining industries. These rivers were also extensively exploited
for irrigation, and had insufficient flows to maintain their assimilative capacity. The
deteriorating water quality threatened the growth of Sichuan's larger cities, and was
likelyto pose a threat to the water qualityin the Three Gorges Reservoir.

In an effort to curb pollution from urban and industrial sources, SP set the following
ambitious pollution control targets to be achieved by2010: a cap on the total amount of
heavymetals in industrial wastewater at 1995 levels, improvement of surface water
qualityto meet national standards, and wastewater treatment targets of 25 % for domestic
wastewater and 65 % of industrial wastewater.

SP endorsed and adopted the strategyand framework for improving urban environmental
services, which was developed during project preparation following a comprehensive
water sector study.

The rationales for Bank involvement were: (a) to engage with emerging cities in Western
China for the first time; (b) to help SP institute region-wide water resource management
and policy reforms; (c) to improve environmental conditions to maintain water quality
levels of the Min and Tuo River basins compatible with needs; and (d) to reduce
pollution loads entering the Yangtze River.

1.2 OriginalProject Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The project development objective was `to provide a safe environmental setting for the
sustainable long-term economic growth of urban areas in Sichuan Province.'

Keyperformance indicators were presented in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).
The outcome indicators were: (a) reduction of total pollution loads from the urban sector
to the Min and Tuo Rivers through selective high-impact wastewater and solid waste
management improvements; (b) expansion of capacity for supplying safe water in urban
areas; and (c) strengthened financial viabilityand institutional autonomyof municipal
services.


                                               1

1.3 RevisedPDO (as approved by original approving authority) andKey Indicators, and
reasons/justification
Project development objectives and indicators remained unchanged during the project
period.

1.4 MainBeneficiaries,
Original Beneficiaries. The principal project beneficiaries were: (a) the cities of
Chengdu, Deyang, Luzhou, and Leshan, which were to benefit from improved
environmental conditions and services and improved management systems; and (b)
residents of project cities and downstream users who would benefit from improved water
qualityin the Min and Tuo Rivers. The improvements at the Leshan Grand Buddha site
were intended to preserve a unique cultural heritage for future generations. The Sichuan
Construction Commission (SCC), the Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB),
and the cities of Deyang, Leshan and Luzhou were to benefit from urban management
information and decision support systems. The strategic framework developed for
improving urban environmental services was to benefit all major cities in both Sichuan
Province and the newly-created Chongqing Municipality.

Revised Beneficiaries. All beneficiaries remained as planned, except for those who
would have benefited from water supply(WS) improvements in Leshan and Luzhou.
The Leshan water supply component was deleted. (See Section 1.6 for further details.)

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The Board-approved project was formally amended before loan signature, to delete the
two Zigong components, as Zigong decided not to participate in the project. The
amended project cost, after withdrawal of Zigong, was US$ 218.9 million (down from
US$ 310 million), with a loan of US$ 100.0 million (down from US$ 150 million), and
the IDA credit of US$ 2 million earmarked for the Environmental Protection and
Rehabilitation at the World Heritage Site of the Leshan Grand Buddha. The Loan
became effective two years after the original Board approval. The project components as
described in the legal documents are summarized below.

Min River Basin
   Chengdu Wastewater (US$ 90.9 million). Construction of a 300,000 m3/d
     wastewater treatment plant (WWTP), interceptors and secondarysewers, and
     ancillaryfacilities.
   Leshan Water Supply (US$ 22.2 million). Augmentation of a new water supply
     source of 100,000 m3/d capacityincluding treatment, networks, and ancillary
     facilities.
   Leshan Wastewater (US$ 18.5 million). Construction of interceptors, secondary
     sewers and a WWTP of 100,000 m3/d capacitywith preliminarytreatment.
   Leshan Municipal Solid Waste (US$ 9.1 million). Construction of a 328 tons/d
     sanitarylandfill, collection and transfer facilities, and vehicles and equipment
     including landfill equipment.

Tuo River Basin



                                             2

   Deyang Wastewater (US$ 32.1 million). Construction of sewer networks,
      interceptors and a WWTP of 100,000 m3/daycapacity.
   Luzhou Water Supply (US$ 27.4 million). (a) Luzhou-Beijao: Construction of a
      50,000 m3/d treatment plant, transmission mains and distribution networks; (b)
      Luzhou-Daxikou: Construction of a 50,000 m3/d treatment plant from a new intake,
      transmission mains, storage reservoir, and distribution networks.
Others
   Urban Management Information System(US$ 4.6 million). Development of an
      Urban Management Information System (UMIS) including decision support
      systems for the SCC, Deyang, Leshan and Luzhou, and an Environmental
      Management Information System (EMIS) for the Environmental Protection Bureau
      (EPB).
   Environmental Protection and Rehabilitation (US$ 7.6 million). Improvement
      of infrastructure and facilities at the World Heritage Site of the Leshan Grand
      Buddha, including presentation and management of cultural heritage assets.
   Institutional Development, Strengthening and Training (US$ 6.5 million).
      Technical assistance (TA) comprising institutional and financial management
      systems for the utilityagencies, design review, construction supervision services
      and training.

A detailed project description is available in the PAD.

1.6 Revised Components
The Leshan water supply component and the Daxikou part of the Luzhou water supply
component were deleted earlyin the project implementation period. All other
components remained unchanged. However, a formal amendment was not made to the
legal agreements, and the relevant loan portion was not canceled until the veryend of the
project.

1.7 Other significant changes
(a) The most significant change was that about US$ 42.0 million of the US$ 100 million
of the loan was unutilized mainlydue to the deletion of appraised components. In
addition to using own funds, project agencies decided to use more attractive financing
that became available around 1999/2000 when the National Development and Reform
Commission (NDRC) made unexpectedlyavailable large amounts of less onerous
concessionarystate bonds funding to accelerate development of urban infrastructure in
Western China. SP and the project implementing agencies (PIA) chose to use these funds,
even though the investment plans had been endorsed earlier. The Chengdu Drainage
Company(CDC) also used large amounts of own funds to finance some works under its
component. The Bank accepted the client's prerogative and opportunities to use the least
cost resources available. However, in each case, SP advised the Bank of the changes
onlyafter final decisions had been made.

(b) The availabilityof state bonds and other funding led to significant changes in project
scope and financing. Some works originallyincluded for financing with loan proceeds




                                               3

were changed to non-Bank financing (NBF). The chronologyof changes is provided
below, together with a graphic illustration and table of loan utilization:

 (i)      2000: Zigong citydecided to implement its water and wastewater treatment
          project with national bond and its own fund before signing of the Bank loan;
 (ii)     2001: the Leshan water supplycomponent was deleted; the Bank was advised
          that the water supplycompanywas sold to a private company, and the company
          had no immediate plans to expand water supplyin Leshan;
 (iii) 2001: the Luzhou-Daxikou water supplycomponent was deleted, as the
          companywas able to purchase less expensive treated water from an enterprise
          which had excess capacity after restructuring;
 (iv) 2002: since the allocated state bonds funding had to be used within the same
          fiscal year, SP converted the contract for construction of the Deyang wastewater
          interceptors was converted to non-Bank financing (NBF); and
 (v)      The CDC used own funding to construct secondary sewers, while using loan
          funds for the construction of the large diameter interceptors and treatment plant.




                                    Loan Unutilized (Deletion)
                                    Leshan WS (US$ 11.4 M) (Company incorporated into the Leshan Power Company)
                                    Luzhou-Daxikou WS (US$ 7.0 M) (due to purchase of water from private sector)


                  Loan Reduced
                  [Zigong WS,WW of                   Loan Unutilized (Alternative Funding)
                  US$ 50 M Deleted]                  Deyang WW interceptors(US$ 2.2 M) (State Bond Funding)
                                                     Fuji WS transmission in Luzhou (US$ 3.1 M) (State Bond Funding)

                       50                            CDC sewers (US$ 18.5 M) (Own Financing)



                                    18.4


                                                                                          Loan Canceled (US$ 54 M)
                                                      23.8              Loan                 (Nov 2006, Jan 2007)
                                                                      savings

                    Formally                                           11.8        20%
                   Amended                                                                        Loan Canceled
                      Loan                                                                          (US$ 1.8 M)
                     Amount                                                                          (at closure)


        150           100           81.6              57.8              46.0             44.2




  Board Approved   Amended                                                           Actual Loan
     (Jun 1999)   (Jan 2001)                     During SPN                       Used at Closure




                                                     4

                                      Implemented
        Component         Amount
                          (US$ M)     (regardless of              Remarks (Source)
                                     funding source)
  Leshan WS                 11.4          Yes        Changed circumstances: The water supply
                                                     company was incorporated into the Leshan
                                                     Power Company
                                                     [Bank was informed in November 2001]
  Luzhou-Daxikou WS         7.0            No        No longer needed: The Luzhou WS
                                                     company decided to purchase treated water
                                                     in bulk froma local industrial enterprise
                                                     [Bank was informed in November 2001]
  Deyang wastewater         2.2           Yes        Alternative funding: State Bonds
  interceptors                                       [Bank was informed in August 2002]
  Fuji WS transmission      3.1           Yes        Alternative funding: State Bonds
  main in Luzhou-Beijao                              [Luzhou implemented WS in 1999-2000 to
                                                     meet urgent demand]
  Chengdu Drainage          18.5          Yes        Alternative funding: Own-Financing
  Company (CDC)                                      [Chengdu did not submit disbursement
  sewers                                             applications]

(c) The total loan `surplus' due to deletions and contracts converted to own financing was
US$ 42.2 million, leaving US$ 57.8 million to finance eligible expenditures of about
US$ 84.6 million. However, only US$ 44.2 million of the loan was used by loan closure.
The loan and credit `savings' that can be attributed to high cost estimates is about
US$ 11.6 million (representing about 20% of costs). The primary reason for the loan
`savings' was the use of `norm' rates specified in the government's standardized unit
price schedules, which are generallyhigher than market prices.

(d) Under new leadership, the Leshan Grand Buddha Site Administration (LGBSA)
developed a new plan in January2004, expanding the control area from the original 4
km2 to about17 km2, and deferred some works included in the project. The new access
walkwayto the viewing platform was deferred because there was no consensus among
the interested parties on an acceptable technical solution. The deferments resulted in a
Credit surplus of about US$ 1.3 million out of the US$ 2 million provided.

(e) SP continued to paycommitment fees on the unutilized loan/credit almost to the end
of the project, as it was never restructured. SP was not able to get a timely request to the
NDRC to utilize loan savings. In November 2006 and February2007, US$ 54 million of
the Loan was canceled. At loan closure, onlyUS$ 44.2 million of the Loan, and US$ 0.7
million of the IDA Credit were used, and US$ 1.8 million of the Loan and US$ 1.3
million of the Credit were canceled.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation,Design andQuality at Entry
(a) Project Design. The Bank, along with leading global specialists, devoted
considerable time and resources to formulate a long term development strategy and a
framework for improvement of urban environmental services in SP - the first such



                                               5

strategyin less developed Western China. The framework included two prioritized
investment plans: one for SP concentrating on the Min and the Tuo Rivers, and the other
for Chongqing Municipality(created in 1997, during project preparation) focusing on
measures to reduce pollution entering the Yangtze River. The investment plans and
policies set out were endorsed bySP, and became the basis for sector and project
investments. An important part of the strategy was the incorporation of an innovative
Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan (IPCAP) as a practical means of implementing
the `polluter pays' principle. The IPCAP was essential to reduce the large industrial
pollution discharges into the rivers.

The task team, with active support from the country management, recognized the
importance of heritage in the development paradigm, and with SP agreement, allocated
China's last available IDA funds (US$ 2 million) to support this innovative intervention.
The project included support for rehabilitation of cultural heritage assets, specificallythe
site of the Leshan Grand Buddha. Because of its world heritage status, a process for wide
consultation with national and international experts was included.

The PDO did not include specific quantitative targets or baseline conditions as often seen
in projects prepared in the 1990s. The supervision team added some quantitative
performance indicators at a later stage.

(b) Institutional Development. A specific project goal was to strengthen and develop
sector institutions, through the formation of autonomous wastewater companies, and
incorporation of cost recoveryprinciples. The cost recoverystrategyadopted was
consistent with Bank policy, findings of the urban services sector report (completed about
that time), and practice elsewhere, which subsequentlybecame Chinese national policy.
In line with sector policy at the time, on-lending terms to utilities were set at a 15-year
repayment, even though the Bank loan was for 20 years with a 5-year grace period.
Standard financial performance covenants on cost recoveryand debt service coverage
ratio were also included. The Bank required the creation of autonomous utility
companies prior to project appraisal.

(c) Capacity Building. The project included the following capacitybuilding technical
assistance packages: (i) improved construction supervision and contract management, on
terms similar to FIDIC (Federation Internationale des Ingenieurs Conseils), as part of the
project; (ii) financial strengthening for utilitycompanies; (iii) urban management
information systems; and (iv) a free-standing Japan Policyand Human Resources
Development (PHRD) Implementation Grant of US$ 400,000 to support monitoring
implementation of environmental and social safeguards.

(d) Risks and Mitigation Identified at Appraisal. The risks identified included: (i)
complementarypollution reduction in industry and agriculture delayed. This risk was
addressed through the formulation of the IPCAP, which was to be implemented in
parallel with the project. The project did not address agricultural non-point source
pollution. (ii) Autonomyof wastewater companies and financial sustainability. By
project appraisal, autonomous companies were created for wastewater and water supply



                                                6

operations in project cities. The companies were required to produce annual financial
statements and tariff recommendations necessaryto meet the specified financial
performance criteria. These risks were rated as "modest" at appraisal.

(e) Adequacy of Participatory Processes. Appropriate improvements to be implemented
at the World Heritage Site of the Leshan Grand Buddha were decided upon through a
participatoryprocess by conducting wide consultations. A participatoryprocess
involving affected people and other stakeholders were also used to prepare Resettlement
Action Plans (RAP) in conformitywith the requirements of the World Bank and
Government policies, and procedures for involuntaryresettlement.

(f) Quality at Entry. A Qualityat EntryReview (QER) carried out in March 2000 gave
the project a `Satisfactory' rating. Details are provided in Section 5.


2.2 Implementation
(a) Project Implementation. Utilitycompanies implemented the project using World
Bank procurement procedures. The project implementation period was 5 years; however,
the loan closing date was extended once by7 months to enable completion of outstanding
works.

(b) Project Management. The Sichuan Provincial Project Management Office (PPMO)
provided effective coordination during preparation and implementation, and was also the
main point of contact with the Bank. As project cities had no experience with previous
Bank-financed projects, the PPMO played a keyrole in guiding the project and ensuring
that implementing agencies understood and complied with the provisions of the legal
agreements.

(c) Detailed Design Preparation. Detailed design preparation did not commence for
about one year after project start until all internal approvals were completed. Responding
to a request from SP to assist in accelerating detailed design preparation, the Bank
offered `no objection' to awarding sole source contracts totaling US$ 874,000 to one
design institute (DI) for detailed design preparation for all components. The qualityof
this work was not entirely satisfactory(also highlighted in the Borrower's ICR).

(d) Compliance with Financial Covenants. The water supplycompanyin Luzhou has
been, and will be able to complywith the financial covenants. The wastewater
companies in Chengdu, Deyang and Leshan only partially complied with the financial
covenants. They were unable to meet the financial covenants with their own revenues.
Their local governments provided subsidies to fully cover the costs and debt service.
However, not all subsidies provided have gone through each company's accounts. The
debt service payments have been made directlyby the respective Finance Bureaus
without involving the wastewater companies.

Tariff increases were implemented twice, in 2005 and 2006 byCDC to complywith a
central government directive to impose a minimum wastewater tariff of RMB 0.80/m3;
but tariffs were not revised in Leshan or Deyang. Financial statements indicate a trend of


                                                7

reducing government subsidies in all the wastewater companies. Luzhou Water Supply
Company(LUWSC) increased water supplytariffs in 2003 and 2006, and is in a sound
financial position requiring no subsidies from government. Although not required under
project financial covenants, Leshan introduced a solid waste fee averaging RMB 5 per
household per month.

(e) Autonomy of Utility Companies. The ICR review found that: (i) though the
companies were formally created to meet a condition for appraisal, theywere reallynot
operational until the asset construction was nearing completion; (ii) `tariff" is legally
defined as an administration fee which must accrue to the government - wastewater tariff
revenues collected bythe water supplycompanies continue to be remitted to the Finance
Bureaus, which provide wastewater companies adequate budgets to meet operation and
maintenance (O&M) expenditures with the exception of Leshan Wastewater Treatment
Company(LEWTC) which receives all revenues directly; and (iii) with respect to the
secondarysewer systems, CDC owns the sewer networks, but O&M is carried out bythe
district sanitation units; Deyang Wastewater Treatment Company(DWTC) neither owns
nor operates the sewer system; and LEWTC owns and operates the entire sewer network.

(f) Mid-term Review and Project Restructuring. It became evident at the mid-term
review in 2003 that a substantial portion of the loan would not be utilized. The Bank
agreed to consider SP's request to identify a list of new subprojects for financing,
increase the disbursement percentage for civil works, and cancel unutilized loan savings,
subject to the Ministryof Finance (MOF) making a formal request to the Bank. Pending
this request and amendment of the legal agreements, the Bank appraised additional
subprojects for Leshan and Luzhou in about 2004. However, the additional works to use
loan savings for the Chengdu wastewater component was not finalized until late 2006
because CDC changed its proposal more than once. Following the appraisal of the
additional works for Chengdu, the PPMO submitted the consolidated application to
NDRC in late 2006, which was rejected. The lengthydelayin finalizing the loan savings
package caused project owners to change their minds, or cancel the appraised subprojects
as in the case of Leshan and Luzhou.

(g) Industrial Pollution Reduction. The Provincial EPB report on provincial industrial
pollution reduction provides province-wide data and citydata on pollution reduction and
water qualityimprovements in the Min and Tuo Rivers, including actions taken in regard
to implementation of the IPCAP. The report indicates that SP has pursued industrial
pollution reduction on a broad front, including the four worst polluting industries
identified at project appraisal. Improvements in three industries achieved the 2010
IPCAP targets for COD and NH3-N load reductions of 28% and 39% respectively. The
fourth industrywas closed down. Details are provided in Annex 4.

(h) Implementation of Technical Assistance (TA). The organization of institutional and
financial strengthening technical assistance was not very effective initially, as the
companies, though created, were not operational and had little or no staff in the initial
years of project implementation; theytherefore could not fullytake advantage of the TA.
Later in the project period, financial systems and procedures were introduced in the



                                              8

companies. Construction supervision under the improved procedures, similar to FIDIC,
was partiallysuccessful because the project owners needed more time to adjust to the
new role of the Engineer under FIDIC terms. GIS-based urban management information
systems for the SCC and other cities, and the environment management information
system for the EPB were completed despite some delays. Wastewater and water supply
companies now routinely use the financial projections for costing and tariff projections.
Project agencies have developed databases using management information systems (MIS)
for planning, decision-making and development purposes.

2.3 Monitoringand Evaluation(M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Monitoring and evaluation of the project was done primarilythrough progress reports
from the PPMO, and supervision missions that were conducted semi-annuallybyjoint
headquarters and resident mission teams. The design of the original M&E system left
much room for improvement. As seen in the other projects approved around the same
period, lack of quantifiable and measurable monitoring indicators at output and outcome
levels made it difficult to track project progress towards PDO and to document the
project outcomes. However, the task team introduced a set of monitoring indictors at a
later stage. The EPB regularlymonitored industries and river water quality. Monitoring
of safeguard implementation and procurement administration was carried out byexternal
monitors and China CountryOffice specialists. A PHRD implementation grant was
provided for independent monitoring of safeguard implementation. OnlyUS$ 221,765 of
the US$ 400,000 PHRD grant was used prior to closure. The formation of an Advisory
Committee, along with consultants to support the work of the Committee was not
implemented; funds were used onlyto finance the external monitoring of safeguard
compliance.

2.4 Safeguard andFiduciary Compliance

Social Safeguard Issues. No specific issues arose during implementation. SP and project
agencies were in full compliance with the Bank's safeguard policies.

Environmental Issues. Sichuan Provincial Government and implementing agencies
complied with the Bank's safeguard policies.

Financial Management. Apart from initial minor delays, no specific issues arose during
implementation. Audit requirements were also fullycomplied with.

Procurement. Fully complied; procurement activities were conducted without any
problems.

2.5 Post-completionOperation/Next Phase
Wastewater companies have started operations, and tariff revenues are generally adequate
to meet O&M costs, but not for debt repayment and tariff increases are necessaryto
increase the level of cost recoveryfrom tariffs. Being government-owned enterprises,
institutional reform would depend largelyon the reform agenda pursued by the central
government. At present, the utilitycompanies see their role largely as service providers



                                               9

supporting rapid urban development. Future investment plans of project entities are
described below.

(a) CDC plans to: prepare a sludge management plan to dispose of over 400 t/dayof
sludge from its four treatment plants; expand the capacityof its network, as some older
sewers are now surcharged; and explore options and opportunities for private sector
participation in wastewater activities.
(b) Deyang Wastewater Treatment Company(DWTC) plans to: expand its treatment
capacityby another 100,000 m3/d, and construct a 50,000 m3/d plant to collect and treat
wastewater generated from the western drainage zone west of the rail line, currently
discharged to the river.
(c) LEWTC plans to increase its secondarytreatment capacityby another 50,000 m3/d,
and expand its sewer network to increase wastewater collection.
(d) Leshan Solid Waste Management Board (LESMB) plans to improve waste collection,
and introduce waste separation.
(e) Luzhou Water Supply Company(LUWSC) has adequate capacity and revenues for
the near term, and has no specific expansion plans.
(f) LGBSA is still exploring technical options to construct a second access walkwayto
the viewing platform, and plans to continue removal of non-conforming uses from the
protected area. Its current revenues are about US$ 13 million annually, and growing.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design andImplementation
Rating: Satisfactory

The development objective was consistent with the provincial and central government's
policies on improving water qualityin major rivers and lakes, and developing Western
China. In addition to providing access through major highways to connect these cities,
the safe and sustainable environmental conditions were high priorities for developing the
western region. Maintaining satisfactorywater qualityin the Yangtze River is also a high
priorityfor the central government in order to protect the water qualityin the Three
Gorges Reservoir. The PDO was consistent with China's 10th Five-Year Plan and the
strategic pillars of the Bank's CountryPartnership Strategy for China that aims to
manage resource scarcity and environmental challenges byexpanding urban wastewater
collection and treatment facilities and controlling industrial pollution.

The Bank recognized earlythe importance of urban infrastructure development in SP,
and moved to support the development of a strategy and framework starting from ground
zero. NDRC support followed with large amounts of funds to the western region for the
expansion of urban infrastructure services. The framework also included the IPCAP and
the innovative cultural heritage rehabilitation. Chongqing's prioritized investment
program was also implemented, supported bya separate Bank project (Chongqing Urban
Environment Project, Ln. 4561-CN), and has also led to significant development of urban
services in that Municipality.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives


                                             10

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Achievement of the PDO, measured against the key performance indicators, is described
below:
Indicator. Reduction of total pollution loads from the urban sector to the Min and Tuo
Rivers through selective high-impact wastewater and solid waste management
improvements.
Outcomes over the period of 2000 to 2006 from project investments, combined with
IPCAP include:
(a) BOD removal from municipal wastewater increased approximatelythreefold (27,700
     t/yto 68,800 t/y) through increasing treatment capacity from 400,000 m3/d to
     1,200,000 m3/d;
(b) industryCOD load reduction byabout half (from 562,000 t/yto 298,000 t/y);
(c) industryammonia load reduction from about 26,000 t/yto 20,000 t/y;
(d) pollution load reduction in the four worst polluting industries identified at appraisal:
     (i) ammonia loads in one fertilizer plant reduced by 32%; (ii) COD loads reduced by
     35% in the second fertilizer plant; (iii) COD load reduced by100% in the distillery
     (due to its closure); and (iv) SS load from the mining plant reduced by60%, meeting
     targets specified in the IPCAP;
(e) Province-wide pollution reduction achievement under the IPCAP: industry COD
     reduction by38% and NH3-N by30%; and
(f) Min River water quality at Chengdu and Leshan remained stable at Class III; and Tuo
     River water qualityat Deyang worsened from Class III to Class IV. See Annex 1 and
     Annex 4.

Wastewater improvements were carried out in Zigong, outside the project, but in
accordance with the strategic framework developed at project start, which contributed to
improved water qualityin the Tuo River.

Collection and disposal of over 200 tons/dayof solid waste at a sanitarylandfill in
Leshan contributed to the reduction of pollution entering the river systems.

Indicator. Expansion of capacity for supplying safe water in urban areas.
Safe water supplycoverage was expanded in Luzhou, from 45% to 65%, attributed to the
project1, but not in Leshan as the component was deleted.

Indicator. Strengthened financial viability of utility companies.
As wastewater charges were introduced under the project, it can be said that financial
viabilityimproved from the zero base. As revenues from tariff charges were generally
adequate to meet O&M costs only, financial viabilitywas onlyachieved partially.
However, the wastewater companies were able to cover all costs and debt service because
city governments subsidized them. On a positive note, subsidies are expected to be


1 The lower-than-planned achievement represents the deletion of Luzhou-Daxikou part of the component. However,
this shortfall was made up bythe purchase of treated water from a local enterprise.




                                                         11

eliminated by about 2009/2010 based on current trends. LUWSC has consistentlybeen
financiallyviable throughout, and was able to meet the financial covenants without
government subsidies. While the institutional development objective are based on sound
utilitypractice and development, the Provincial Government's objective was to expand
service coverage in its fast growing cities, improve levels of service, and improve water
qualityin river systems. Following a studyof solid waste services, Leshan introduced a
fee of RMB 5 per month per household, even though it was not a requirement under the
project.

Indicator. Strengthened institutional autonomy of municipal services.
Institutional autonomy was onlypartially achieved. Government water supplyand
drainage departments were converted to autonomous companies with business licenses at
project appraisal except Luzhou, where a water supplycompanyhad been in existence for
about four decades. The degree of autonomyenjoyed in management and financial
decisions was limited, however. In this phase of transition, utilitycompanies see
themselves as service providers to meet rapid urban growth in the project cities. The
current trend of sector reforms, spearheaded bythe central government, is expected to
continue, and the development of autonomous utilitycompanies is likelyto be achieved
in the longer-term.

Indicator. Poverty reduction and public health improvements.
The PAD makes reference to the role of the project in povertyreduction and
improvement of public health. No specific measurable interventions were designed in the
project, and supervision missions did not follow this aspect. In the absence of clearly
defined indicators, assessment of the relevant outcomes would be difficult, as these
benefits accrue to the larger citypopulation. However, the project mayhave had some
impact on the poor with regard to increased employment opportunities and access to
basic services.

The PDO was ambitious considering that it was the first sector operation in the province.
Overall, project outputs have contributed substantiallyto creating a safe environmental
setting for economic growth in SP. However, financial viabilityand institutional
autonomyof utility companies were onlyachieved partially.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Satisfactory

All the wastewater components (CDC, DWTC and LEWTC) are estimated to generate
financial rates of return (FIRRs) of more than 10%, which are above the costs of capital
for each component. These rates of return result from the fact that the project costs for all
the components have been effectivelycontrolled. In order to realize these rates of return,
however, all wastewater companies will need to increase the wastewater tariffs in the
next five years, as planned. The implementation of tariff increases depend largelyon the
central government's continuing policy guidelines promoting full cost recoveryin
wastewater services, and local government compliance with the guidelines. ICR
assessment is that (i) CDC and DWTC are likelyto achieve this goal, and (ii) LEWTC
would require strong political support to achieve this goal, given its current low


                                              12

wastewater tariff. The water supplycomponent in Luzhou (LUWSC) is estimated to
generate a financial rate of return of 19.2%, even with the assumption of no tariff
increase from the current level. The economic rate of return (EIRR) was revaluated only
for the water supplycomponent. The EIRR for LUWSC is estimated at 20.5%, which
ensures the economic viabilityof the project.

                                            FIRR                  EIRR
                                      ICR         PAD/1        ICR    PAD

              CDC                       10.6%          9.9%     -      -

              DWTC                      11.6%        10.7%      -      -

              LEWTC                     11.2%        10.0%      -      -


              LUWSC                     19.7%        11.5%    20.5%   10-12%/2



              /1: Figures from Table 3 of Annex 4
              /2: The rate for LUWSC is not specified in PAD.



3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome is rated as `moderatelysatisfactory' based on the following:

(a) Total pollution load discharges from the urban sector to the Min and Tuo Rivers were
reduced through increased municipal wastewater treatment in Chengdu, Leshan and
Deyang; safe disposal of solid wastes in Leshan; and the successful implementation of
the IPCAP.

(b) Deterioration of water qualityin the Min River was arrested, while the water quality
in the Tuo River deteriorated marginallyfor reasons beyond the project's scope.

(c) The project cannot take credit for pollution reduction in Zigong, even though the
project made an intellectual contribution through the strategic plan developed under the
project.

(d) Provision of safe water supply was achieved partially. Water supply coverage was
expanded partiallyin Luzhou; the component in Leshan was deleted.

(e) Financial viabilityin utilitycompanies was partiallyachieved. LUWSC was
financiallyviable. Current wastewater tariff revenues are generally adequate to meet
O&M costs. Wastewater companies could cover all the necessary costs with subsidy
support from city governments, mainlyfor debt repayment. However, subsidies show a
declining trend, and it is possible that theywill be eliminated by about 2010.




                                                      13

(f) Autonomyof utilitycompanies was partiallyachieved. Municipal drainage
departments were converted to autonomous companies at project appraisal, but their
autonomyremains limited. The transition to fully autonomous companies is likelyto be
achieved in the longer-term with support from the central government's reform agenda.

(g) Project outcomes may have made a significant contribution to providing a safe
environment for the rapid development of project cities, but no clearlydefined indicator
was available.

3.5 OverarchingThemes,Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects,and Social Development
The Quality at EntryReview (QER) questioned the povertytargeting classification of the
project. The ICR review finding is that the project was not a povertytargeted project;
there is onlyone reference to povertyunder project risks in the PAD. Project design did
not include specific interventions for povertyreduction nor were there any baseline
indicators.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project introduced four important interventions with regard to institutional
changes/strengthening: (a) creation of autonomous wastewater companies in project
cities; (b) introduction of construction supervision and contract management, on terms
similar to FIDIC with an independent engineer performing services as the representative
of the employer; continuation of this arrangement in the follow-on project  Sichuan
Urban Development Project (Ln. 4838-CN), bodes well for improvement in contract
administration; (c) introduction of independent design checks byinternational consultants
intended to reduce design faults, contractor claims, and contract variations; and (d)
introduction of financial systems and procedures in the utilitycompanies, including
enterprise accounting and financial projections.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Not applicable.

3.6 Summaryof Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risks to development outcome are assessed as `moderate' due to the following
factors:

Risk: Sichuan Province relaxes controls on industries compliance with environmental
regulations. The Provincial Government is expected to proceed with caution using a
measured approach while maintaining its commitment to reducing industrial pollution.
This is because most industries are state-owned, and they are not financially strong
enough to adopt clean technologyimprovements, and the social and political implications
make labor layoffs unlikely. The successful implementation of the IPCAP demonstrates


                                             14

this commitment. In view of its obligations to the central government, it is unlikelythat
Sichuan will relax industrial pollution control.

The increasing focus and interventions bythe central government in pollution reduction,
river water qualityimprovements, and cost recoveryhave been, and are likelyto be,
powerful catalysts towards continued progress in the improvement of environmental
conditions throughout the country. Under these conditions, it is highlylikelythat
enforcement of environmental regulations will continue to improve.

Risk: Project cities may not continue to invest in wastewater collection and treatment.
The installed treatment capacityof 900,000 m3/d in the capital city(Chengdu) is adequate
provided sewer networks are expanded to collect all wastewater, currently conveying
about 760,000 m3/d. Deyang has plans to expand its treatment capacityto service the
western zone, and Leshan plans to expand its secondarytreatment capacity to match
increasing wastewater flows. The risk is low under the prevailing emphasis for
environmental improvements.

Risk: Project cities may not operate all treatment facilities because tariff revenue is
inadequate to meet costs of providing services. Even though tariff revenues are
inadequate to meet full costs, city governments have continued to provide necessary
funds to meet O&M costs and debt service. Current indications are that this practice will
continue. Increased cost recoveryfrom users of the services is essential to reduce this
risk and improve sustainability. Tariff revenue is now adequate to meet O&M
expenditures.

Risk: Sustainability of wastewater services may not be achieved. The city governments
provided subsidies mainly to cover debt service. Costs recovered through tariffs are
adequate for O&M only. However, with wastewater companies showing a reducing trend
of subsidies from respective governments, sustainabilityis likelyover the longer term.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 BankPerformance
(a) BankPerformance inEnsuringQuality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance is assessed on the following: (a) project formulation based on a
comprehensive water sector study, which developed a strategy and strategic framework
for environmental improvements in SP including an industrial pollution control action
plan without which improvement of river water qualitywould have not been possible; (b)
prioritization of investments in keycities located on two keytributaries of the Yangtze
River; (c) a river basin approach to address environmental problems; (d) institutional
development of water supplyand wastewater services, including formation of
autonomous utilitycompanies with financial performance targets; (e) a new line of
business for the Bank in cultural heritage preservation, including an earmarked IDA
Credit allocation; (f) a new model for improved construction supervision and contract



                                             15

management similar to FIDIC; and (g) mobilization of a Japan PHRD implementation
grant for project preparation, and to monitor implementation of social safeguards.

A QER in March 2000 gave a `satisfactory' rating for the project. The review took place
before the surge of state national bonds to the western region, and was based on the
conditions prevailing at the time. The main observations of the Panel were: (a) the
extensive sector work; (b) support for the government's strategyof shifting development
focus awayfrom the prosperous coastal areas towards the less developed western region;
(c) the effective partnership with other donor agencies in the preparation stage; (d) the
innovative approaches of the project focusing on one of the poorest and most populated
provinces, focus on the key cities along two heavily polluted rivers which are principal
tributaries of the Yangtze River; and combining large scale river basin management
concepts with urban environment services priorities; and (e) the Bank's decision to
provide IDA funds to support the cultural heritage development plan, and to ensure the
proper handling of a major cultural heritage site, the Leshan Grand Buddha.

The ICR evaluation concludes that although the partnership with the provincial
counterparts was strong in the project design and preparation, better communication with
the project implementing agencies at municipal level would have facilitated greater client
engagement during project implementation. In addition, a more meaningful assessment
of project outcomes and supervision with a focus on results would have been possible had
the project design included keyperformance indicators with quantitative targets and
baseline conditions.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The Project was supervised thoroughly at least twice a year, and comprehensive back-to-
office reports detailing project implementation progress and project issues were prepared.
Supervision of procurement, safeguard issues and financial management were delegated
to specialists in the Beijing office, which contributed to improved efficiency in these
fields. Bank assistance was provided to clarifycontractual issues between the PPMO and
international consultants engaged in financial and institutional strengthening. Project
documents indicate that supervision missions regularlyhighlighted compliance with
financial covenants, and the need to increase wastewater tariffs.

The Bank made a significant contribution in guiding the preparation of the cultural
heritage development plan, and for solutions in developing the access walkwayto the
Leshan Grand Buddha site, with inputs from cultural heritage specialists. As earlyas
2002, the Bank alerted CDC and LEWTC about non-compliance with the debt coverage
ratio covenant, which was major reason for the large debt-financing for non-Bank funded
investments. The Bank appraised additional components in Leshan and Luzhou to utilize
loan savings in 2004, pending a final decision by CDC and amendment of the legal
agreements. However, SP did not submit its request to NDRC in time (in 2006), and thus
it was not approved.




                                             16

The ICR evaluation assessed whether the Bank could have foreseen or prevented the
deletions and changes in the project scope that occurred. The first deletion (of the Zigong
components) soon after Board approval was completelyunexpected, as the choice to use
more attractive funding became available subsequent to project appraisal. Had the Bank
been advised in time, the embarrassment could have been avoided. The unexpected
availabilityof state bonds funding led to the subsequent deletions in Deyang and Leshan.
The Bank was flexible, and accepted the prerogative of the borrower agencies to use the
best resources available. The purchase of water by Luzhou (Daxikou) which occurred
during implementation was done in consultation with the Bank. The Bank concurred
with this least cost alternative that emerged subsequent to project appraisal.

Bank supervision ensured that project agencies followed the agreed resettlement action
plans (RAP) and environmental management plan (EMP). The Bank also obtained a
PHRD Implementation Grant to improve its monitoring of social safeguards. In addition
to the formal missions, the Bank's countryoffice staff monitored and supervised
safeguards implementation.

The Bank supervised fiduciaryaspects of the project through the review of the documents
submitted bySP, and the inclusion of procurement and financial management specialists
in the missions as and when required.

(c) Justificationof Ratingfor Overall BankPerformance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance is rated `satisfactory' for the following reasons: (a) early
recognition of the importance of urban services improvement to accelerate development
of China's western region; (b) project formulation based on extensive sector work and
design based on a river-basin approach; (c) mobilization of international resources to
draft a long-term strategy for urban environmental service improvements in the Province
for this first time borrower from a relativelypoor province; (d) development of a strategic
framework for urban environmental infrastructure that was adopted bySP enabling them
to invest in keyenvironmental infrastructure in an orderlymanner irrespective of the
source of funding; (e) development of a prioritized investment plan as the basis for the
project investments; (f) incorporation of an industrial pollution control action plan in the
strategic framework, without which benefits from treatment of municipal wastewater
alone would have been limited; (g) introduction of a cost recoverystrategy that was
consistent with Bank policy, and which subsequentlybecame national policy; (h)
introduction of competitive bidding in procurement, which was done for the first time in
the sector; (i) mobilization of PHRD grants for the sector study, design review advisory
services, and project implementation; (j) effective supervision that identified
implementation problems and recommended solutions; and (k) efficient supervision of
implementation of social and environmental safeguards, procurement and financial
management using countryoffice specialists.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


                                             17

The Government of China passed on Loan and Credit proceeds to SP on the same terms.
Through the PPMO, the Provincial Government coordinated project implementation
providing guidance and support on Bank procedures to the smaller project cities. The
PPMO maintained an open working relationship with the Bank, and provided timely
progress reports. SP ensured that adequate funding and other support were available to
complete the investment program satisfactorily. The complementary IPCAP was also
implemented satisfactorily.

The performance of the Provincial Government and city governments to provide
adequate funds to enable effective operation and debt repayment, and ensuring improved
wastewater services deserves commendation. Government subsidies to wastewater
companies show a declining trend, and are likelyto end by about 2009/2010. However,
the above actions reflect the Provincial Government's priorityof improving
environmental conditions and services before achieving financial viabilitythrough cost
recovery, which does not coincide with the project goals as envisaged in the PAD and
legal agreements. The project's institutional development goal was to convert
government sanitation departments into financially and managerially autonomous utility
companies conforming to international utilitypractice in the relativelyshort period since
their formation. Under the project, wastewater companies were formed, but actual
operations started towards the completion of construction, which is a relativelyshort
period to make significant progress. They enjoyed limited autonomy. Achieving
financial viabilityin the sector is the long-term goal of the Central and Provincial
Governments.

Due to the surge of state bonds allocations to the western region, SP revised the project
scope and financing plans to make use of the least cost resources available. However, in
the case of each change, SP advised the Bank only after final decisions had been made.
Following the withdrawal of Zigong soon after Board approval, it took more than 18
months for SP to reach an agreement on amending the project scope. Due to frequent
changes in CDC proposals, SP was not able to secure approval of the NDRC to utilize
loan savings despite Bank appraisal of additional subprojects for Luzhou and Leshan,
pending amendment of the legal agreements. Only about US$ 44 million (of the US$ 100
million) loan was used, while SP continued to pay commitment fees on the unused
balance until the end of 2006 totaling about US$ 1.22 million. SP also used onlyone-
third of the US$ 2 million IDA Credit that was made available for the rehabilitation of
cultural heritage assets, and about half the PHRD implementation grant.

(b) Implementing Agencyor Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the planning and implementation of components byrespective project agencies
were satisfactory. Utilitycompanies could cover the operation and maintenance costs,
while the municipal governments provided the subsidies mainlyto cover debt service. It
is expected that the subsidies will be phased out gradually. More progress could have
been made, however, to improve their autonomyand financial viability.



                                              18

   Implementing
       Agency                                      Performance

                       Design, construction and operation of facilities were highly
                       satisfactory. Tariffs were increased to the minimum level
        CDC            mandated bythe central government. The size of subsidies to
                       CDC for debt repayment has had a declining trend. CDC could
                       not use the loan savings due to frequent changes of its proposals.
                       Design, construction and operation of facilities were satisfactory.
        DWTC           No tariff increase was implemented. Received reducing subsidies
                       for debt repayment.

       LEWTC           LEWTC collects tariff revenues directlyfrom the water supply
                       company. It received reducing subsidies for debt repayment.
                       Collection, transfer and disposal of solid wastes operated

       LESMB           satisfactorily. Introduced a tariff for solid waste service. Landfill
                       capacityis larger than demand, hence it will have longer life than
                       the planned 15 years.
                       Part of investment deleted because treated water became available
       LUWSC           from an enterprise. Tariff increased twice, and the companyis in
                       a sound financial position. No subsidies were required.
                       Viewing platform completed; but the keyaccess walkwaywas not

       LGBSA           constructed due to lack of consensus on an acceptable design. It
                       is a popular attraction, receiving over US$ 13 million revenue
                       annually.

Safeguards. Project agencies planned and implemented resettlement satisfactorilyin
compliance with the RAP. According to the monitoring surveys and reports, all the
resettled and affected households' living standards were improved, and their economic
incomes enhanced. All affected persons received (a) compensation for replacement
housing as applicable, (b) assistance during their relocation and livelihood rehabilitation,
and (c) assistance to readjust in productive activities and adapt to changed economic
situations. The external monitoring report concluded that the project's resettlement
program achieved the targets as planned in the RAP, and most resettled households were
satisfied with their new lives after resettlement.

The EMP prepared during project preparation was fullyimplemented. A consulting firm
was hired bythe PMO to supervise and monitor the EMP implementation. There were no
instances of any adverse environmental impacts or complaints during project
implementation.

Overall, the project met its safeguard objectives satisfactorily. Sichuan Government and
implementing agencies complied with the Bank's safeguard policies.

Fiduciary. Procurement and financial management was appropriatelyimplemented.
Project documents indicate no issues relating to procurement performance throughout
project implementation. There were no significant changes to the project financial



                                              19

management system agreed at project appraisal. Project financial statements were
generated in the format agreed with the Bank. Audited project financial statements, as
required by the legal agreements, were submitted to the Bank slightly late in the first year,
but improved in the following years. All the audit reports, including those for trust funds,
were issued with unqualified (clean) opinions, and no significant internal control
weaknesses or non-compliances were identified by the auditors. The auditors did
highlight slow disbursement and shortage of counterpart funds in several reports. Overall,
financial management in the project was satisfactory.


(c) Justificationof Ratingfor Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Positive aspects of the Borrower performance are: (i) the Provincial Government's
effective coordination role of the project, in guiding and assisting smaller project
agencies in implementation issues; (ii) completion of all planned investments; (iii)
contribution of project outputs to achievement of project development objectives; (iv)
satisfactoryimplementation of the IPCAP; (v) the adoption of an improved construction
supervision and contract management system, which is continued in the follow-on project
(Sichuan Urban Development Project, Ln. 4838-CN); (vi) completion of the works to a
good qualityof construction, and satisfactoryoperation with support from respective city
governments; (vii) formation of utilitycompanies for wastewater operations, the adoption
of improved financial procedures and systems, and production of financial projections
regularly; (viii) the priority given bySP to improve environmental conditions through
expanding wastewater collection and treatment, and providing improved services; (ix)
city government's support to cover the cost of the wastewater companies, by providing
subsidies which show a decreasing trend, and are projected to end by about 2009/2010;
(x) maintaining tariffs at a level adequate to meet O&M costs, with respective city
governments providing reducing subsidies to wastewater companies to meet debt service
payments; (xi) increase of the wastewater tariffs by CDC; (xii) full compliance of
financial covenants by LUWSC, through the increase of tariffs in 2003 and 2006; (xiii)
full implementation of the RAP and EMP; and (xiv) development of urban management
and environmental management information systems for use byConstruction Bureaus
and the EPB.

The less positive aspects of the Borrower's performance are (i) slow and incomplete
implementation of financial and sectoral reform program for the utilities as observed in
the following: (a) the relativelyslow progress to achieve financial viability through
tariffs, (b) the payment of debt service payments on behalf of the utility companies,
without reflecting them in the accounts of the companies, (c) the non-compliance by
CDC and LEWTC of the debt service coverage ratio covenant, because of large
borrowing of funds for non-Bank financed investments, (d) the continued ownership and
maintenance of secondary sewers bydistrict sanitation bureaus in some cities, with
budgets from city governments for O&M which are not reflected in the accounts of the
utilitycompanies; and (ii) failure to give the Bank prior notice of project changes which
had significant impacts (e.g., Zigong, Leshan and Luzhou-Daxikou); (iii) failure to
formulate in a timelymanner, a proposal to utilize the substantial loan `surplus' and


                                              20

`savings'; and (iv) the utilization of onlyabout a sixth of the IDA credit and about half
the PHRD implementation grant provided.

6. Lessons Learned
(i) Under the decentralized administrative structure, project cities, as the major
stakeholders, exercise their right to seek various financial sources to support their
investment programs. As a result, the Provincial Government had no leverage to stop
Zigong from withdrawing from the project soon after Board approval. Intensive
coordination and agreement between the Province (Development Reform Commission,
Finance Bureau, Construction Bureau, PPMO), the project cities, and the Bank are
required with regard to project scope and the allocation of the Bank loan, to ensure that
defections do not take place. In the fast changing investment climate and financial
markets in China, the central government and the Bank need to adopt more innovative
and flexible lending instruments such as a Sector Wide Approach Program (SWAP),
which could quicklyrespond to changing needs and priorities of the Borrower.

(ii) A practical approach to balance the Bank's priorityfor institutional development with
the Government's priority for expanding wastewater coverage and service levels is
necessary. The objectives and priorities of SP were different from those of the Bank. SP
gave priorityto honoring the agreements made with the central government to expand
municipal wastewater treatment to reduce pollution discharges to the river system. A
more lenient financing plan where the city governments provided a part of the Bank-
funded portion (37% to 46% of project cost) as equitymight have helped the wastewater
companies during the period when theywere in the process of consolidating their
position. It is recommended that the provincial governments, the project municipal
governments, and the Bank agree on a debt equity structure and/or declining subsidy
program taking into account realistic tariff increase plans during the project appraisal.

(iii) In order to assist the development of new utilitycompanies, it would be appropriate
to consider on-lending to utilities on the same terms as the Bank loan to China, rather
than the 15 years adopted in the project. A longer repayment term of 20 years would
have helped these utility companies which were embarking on large investment programs.
In addition, a debt service coverage covenant would have been verydifficult to comply
with without government subsidies. A tariff of about RMB 1.5 per m3 would be required
if the wastewater companies were to complywith the debt service coverage ratio
covenant without government subsidies, while the central government directed a
minimum tariff of RMB 0.8 per m3 for wastewater operations nationwide.

(iv) As investment financing becomes less important to China, the Bank's future focus
should shift to value addition, through programs to transfer knowledge of management
systems and procedures. Many cities are completing large wastewater treatment plants,
and are venturing into Private Sector Participation (PSP) operations such as build, operate
and transfer (BOT) and management contracts in the water supply and wastewater sectors.
Some areas where the Bank could add value are in: (a) O&M of WWTPs and solid waste
landfills; (b) options for sludge treatment and disposal; (c) infrastructure mapping; (d)




                                              21

reduction of non-revenue water; (e) sewer network optimization modeling; and (f)
improving the efficiency of contracting and managing PSP operations.

(vi) An experienced Project Management Office staffed with a full-time Director and
qualified technical staff, and supported byan experienced project management
consultants are important ingredients for smooth project implementation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Bank comments on some statements in the Borrower's ICR (in italics) are provided
below:

(i) Cost estimates in PAD too high. The practice/requirement at the time of project
preparation was to use the standard `norm' unit rates; this was the reason for the high cost
estimates.

(ii) Loan savings could not be used because it took too long to finalize. The Bank
appraised additional subprojects for Leshan and Luzhou in 2004, but SP did not submit
the application to NDRC until late 2006 due to indecision byCDC on its proposals.

The PPMO has indicated that it does not agree entirely with the reasons stated in the
Bank's ICR. It states that one of the reasons for the delay in appraising the loan savings
package was because the World Bank sent a mission to appraise the additional works
very late, causing the clients to change their minds or cancel the proposed subprojects.

(iii) Frequent changes of task team leaders and delay in finalizing proposal for utilization
of loan savings. There were three changes in Bank Task Team Leaders (TTLs) over the
course of project preparation and implementation of about ten years, two of which were
due to mandatorystaff retirement. The Bank recognizes that these changes could
temporarilycause inconveniences and disruptions, and this should be taken as a lessons
learned  the changes of TTLs should be minimized to extent possible. However, with
respect to the utilization of loan savings, the Bank team has taken the following actions:
(a) the wastewater subprojects for Luzhou and Leshan were appraised in 2004; (b) the
Bank appraised proposals from CDC twice. However, the Provincial Government could
not submit the loan saving utilization request to the Bank through the central government
as the Province could not secure the NDRC's approval as CDC was not able to come to a
final decision on which subprojects to include for the use of loan savings, until at a very
late stage of the project implementation.

(iv) Quality of detailed designs not good. SP needs to hold design institutes accountable
for the qualityof designs. Design institutes should be assigned the responsibilityfor
topographic, geotechnical and other field investigations in order to ensure fewer design
mistakes. The independent design review process introduced under the project was an
attempt to reduce errors and improve designs.




                                              22

(v) Procurement packages too small. The project agencies resisted larger contract
packages because of their apprehensions regarding prior review requirements and
international competitive bidding.

(vi) Problem of self-supply water users do not pay for wastewater services. SP needs to
give serious and urgent consideration to plug this loophole, through banning self-supply
of water, and requiring all water consumers to connect to the sewer system. This
measure would significantlyimprove the finances of wastewater companies.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners andstakeholders
Not applicable




                                            23

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators

Outcome Indicator: Water Quality in Sichuan Rivers
 River              River Section          Water Quality            Water Quality           Remarks
                                           2000                     2005
 Yangtze            Luzhou                 Class II                 Class II                Better
 Min                Chengdu                Class IV                 Class IV                Slightly Polluted
                    Leshan                 Class III                Class III               Good
 Tuo                Deyang                 Class III                Class IV                Slightly Polluted
  Source: Sichuan EPB (2007).


Outcome Indicators by Component
    Project                   Outcome/Output Indicators                        At Appraisal End-2006
 Components
 Chengdu            (i) Quantity of Wastewater Collected and
 Wastewater         Treated (m3/day)                                           400,000             900,000
 Collection         (ii) Reduction in BOD Loading (tons/year)                  27,740              62,415
 and                (iii) Percentage of Industries Treating Their
 Treatment          Effluents to Meet Discharge Standards and
                    Having On-Line COD Monitoring                              0%                  80%
                    (iv) River Water Quality of Min River
                    downstreamof Chengdu                                       Class IV            Class IV
 Deyang             (i) Quantity of Wastewater Collected and
 Wastewater         Treated (m3/day)                                           0                   100,000
 Collection         (ii) Reduction of BOD Loading (tons/year)                  0                   4,015
 and                (iii) Percentage of Industries Treating Their
 Treatment          Effluents to Meet Discharge Standards and
                    Having On-Line COD Monitoring                              0%                  80%
                    (iv) River Water Quality of Min River
                    downstreamof Deyang                                        Class III           Class IV
 Leshan             (i) Quantity of Wastewater Collected and
 Wastewater         Treated                                                    0                   50,000
 Collection         (ii) Reduction of BOD Loading (tons/year)                  0                   2,373
 and                (iii) Percentage of Industries Treating Their
 Treatment          Effluents to Meet Discharge Standards and
                    Having On-Line COD Monitoring                              0%                  80%
                    (iv) River Water Quality of Min River
                    downstreamof Leshan                                        Class III           Class III
 Leshan             (i) Solid Waste Collected and Disposed at a
 Municipal          Sanitary Landfill (tons/day)                               0                   220
 Solid Waste
 Management
 Luzhou             (i) Water supply Coverage (%)                              45%                 65%*
 Water Supply
  *The lower achievement represents the deletion of Luzhou-Daxikou part of the water supplycomponent.
  However, this shortfall was made up through the purchase of treated water from a local enterprise
  Source: SichuanPMO, CDC, LEWTC, DWTC, LUWSC, and LWSMB. (2007)




                                                     24

Outcome Indicator: Total Municipal and Industrial Wastewater Discharges to
Regional Rivers (Tons/year)
                   Description                        2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
   Wastewater discharge (m3/RMB                      169.3 127.3 127.3 111.8                     88.5      79.3
   10,000 unit)
   Industrial wastewater (%)                           49.0       52.5      51.8       52.6      49.3      46.8
   Industrial wastewater (m3/RMB                     200.0        66.8      66.0       58.8      43.6      37.1
   10,000 unit)
   Percentage meeting discharge                        59.5       72.4      79.1       81.8      86.4      88.3
   standards
   Total COD (10,000 tons)                             97.6       99.2      70.1       93.6      88.2      78.3
   COD fromindustry (%)                                58.0       53.3      30.8       49.3      44.2      38.0
   Industry COD (10,000 tons)                          56.2       46.3      48.5       47.5      49.2      29.8
   Industry NH3-N (10,000 tons)                            -       2.6        2.6       2.9        2.5       2.0

Output Indicator: Water Supply Treatment Capacity (m3/day)
   City            Capacity 2010                    Project         Project          Cumulative %
                   in 2000         Target           Target          Output           Capacity         Achieved
   Luzhou          100,000         144,200          50,000          50,000           150,000          100
   (Beijiao)
   Luzhou   [1]    3,000           72,800           50,000          Deleted          33,000 *         45
   (Daxikou)
   Leshan[2]       85,000          360,000          100,000         Deleted          100,000 **       28
   Zigong[3]       230,000         527,800          80,000          Deleted          270,000*** 51
   Total           418,000         1,104,800 280,000                50,000           663,000          60
    * Alternative supplyof 50,000 m3/d secured from a state-owned enterprise; only33,000 m3/d required now.
    ** Leshan has an installed water treatment capacityof 210,000m3/d, but the full capacitycan be used when river
    flows are high. Current water demand is less than 100, 000m3/d. The 2010 target may be over-estimated.
    ***Zigong augmented 40,000 m3/d water supplyusing own funds.
    Source: SichuanPMO (2007).

Output Indicator: Wastewater Treatment Capacity (m3/day)
   City            Capacity 2010                    Project         Project          Cumulative %
                   in 2000         Target           Target          Output           Capacity         Achieved
   Chengdu         400,000         1,100,000 300,000                300,000          900,000*         82
   Deyang          0               266,000          100,000         100,000          100,000          38
   Leshan          0               152,300          100,000         100,000          100,000**        66
   Zigong          0               80,000           80,000          N/A              50,000***        63
   Total           400,000         1,598,300 580,000                600,000          1,150,000        72
    *Chengdu built other two treatment plants with the capacityof 200,000 m3/dayusing own funds.
    ** Leshan added a 50,000 m3/d secondarytreatment plant to the 100,000 m3/d preliminarytreatment plant
    constructed under the project. Currentlythe influent flow is about 50,000 m3/day. The 2010 target maybe over-
    estimated.
    ***Zigong constructed a 50,000 m3/d treatment plant using own funds.
    Source: SichuanPMO (2007).


Output Indicator of the Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan. The IPCAP
targeted environmental improvements at the four worst polluting industries (listed in the
table below). According to the IPCAP, the COD and NH3-N load reduction targets were
to reduce loads by28% and 39%, respectively, by 2010. The results indicate that the



                                                         25

targets were almost achieved bythe three industries by2006. The fourth industrywas
closed down.

                                  At Appraisal                  End 2006                %     Location/
         Industry            Pollutant Quantity Pollutant                        ** Reduced     River
                                                                         Quantity             Discharged
   Chuan Hua                 Ammonia 5,500 t/yr Ammonia 1,800 t/yr                       67%    Chengdu/
   Fertilizer Factory                                                                               Tuo
   Zigong Honghe                  COD 2,100 t/yr              COD          740 t/yr      65%     Zigong/
   Chemical Fertilizer                                                                              Tuo
   Factory
   *Weiyuan Distillery            COD 6,000 t/yr              COD                 0     100%     Zigong/
   Factory                                                                                          Tuo
   Xinjin Jinhua                     SS      55,000               SS         22,000      60%    Chengdu/
   Mirabilite Mine                               t/yr                           t/yr                Min
   Note: *The factory was closed down.
          **The data is collected from Sichuan EPB.


Output Indicator: Solid Waste Disposal (tons/day)
   City           Capacity 2010                   Project           Project         Cumulative %
                  in 2000           Target        Target            Output          Capacity   Achieved
   Leshan[1]      0                 328           328               328             328*       100
   *Only220 t/d solid waste is currentlyavailable for disposal at the landfill.
   Source PPMO (2007)




                                                       26

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                             Appraisal            Actual/Latest
            Components                        Estimate               Estimate   Percentage of

                                         (US$ millions)*         (US$ millions) Appraisal**

 MIN RIVER BASIN
 (1) CHENGDU WASTEWATER                            78.0                112.2       144%
 (2) LESHAN WASTEWATER                             15.7                  17.0      108%
 (3) LESHAN WATER SUPPLY                           19.0                  --          --
 (4) LESHAN SOLID WASTE                             7.9                   8.5      107%
 TUO RIVER BASIN
 (5) DEYANG WASTEWATER                             27.2                  22.0       80%
 (6) LUZHOU WATER SUPPLY                           23.1                  11.5       50%
 OTHER
 (7) URBAN MANAGEMENT
 INFORMATION SYSTEM                                 3.9                   3.5       90%

 (8) ENVIRONMENTAL
 PROTECTION AND                                     6.4                   3.5       55%
 REHABILITATION
 (9) INSTITUTIONAL
 DEVELOPMENT,
 STRENGTHENING AND                                  5.5                   0.9       16%

 TRAINING


               Total Baseline Cost               186.7
 Physical Contingencies                            17.6
 Price Contingencies                               14.5
                Total Project Costs              218.8                 179.1
 Project Preparation Facility
 Front-end fee IBRD
       Total Financing Required
*Appraisal here refers to amended project, after deletion of Zigong components
** Percentage of total costs




                                                    27

(b) Project Cost (Actual) by Agency
                 CDC     Leshan Leshan Deyang Luzhou LGBSA      UMIS     Total
                         WTC    SMB     WTC   WSC
 Civil works      20.2    10.1   3.9     5.9   2.7     1.8         -      44.6
 Equipment        9.5     2.3    1.3     4.5   1.5                 -      19.1
 NBF Works        51.1    0.7    0.5     7.3   6.2     1.1         -      66.9
 Land &           21.8    0.8    1.8     1.5     -      -          -      25.9
 Resettlement
 Inst & Fin       0.3     0.1    0.1     0.2   0.2      -          -      0.9
 Support
 Package A
 Construction     1.0     0.3    0.2     0.3   0.2     0.1         -      2.1
 Supervision
 Package B
 GIS               -      0.2     -       -    0.2      -        0.8      1.2
 Package C
 Engineering      8.6     2.6    0.8     2.5   0.7     0.5         -      15.7
 & Mgmnt
 UMIS              -       -      -       -      -      -        2.7      2.7
 Actual          112.5    17.1   8.6    22.2   11.7    3.5       3.5     179.1
 Completion
 Cost
 PAD Cost        101.23  20.09  9.82    34.60 29.81    7.74      4.76    208.06
 Estimate


(c) Financing
                                             Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds          Type of   Estimate   Estimate Percentage
                                 Cofinancing  (USD        (USD      of Appraisal
                                             millions)  millions)
 Borrower                                     77.10       132.43       172%
 International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development               100.00      44.23        44%

 International Development
 Association (IDA)                             2.00        0.70        35%


(d) Disbursement Profile




                                       28

29

Annex 3. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Min Basin River Basin

Chengdu Wastewater. Outputs include: 4.6 km of interceptors (trunk sewer of DN2400
mm), and a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) of 300,000 m3/daycapacity able to fully
meet the discharge standard. Chengdu used its own funds to construct secondaryand link
sewers (with pipes ranging from DN 300 mm to DN 1,800 mm) at a cost of about US$ 37
million. Chengdu now has a collection and treatment capacityof 900,000 m3/d, able to
treat all wastewater generated in Chengdu.

Leshan Wastewater. Outputs include: interceptors and link sewers with sizes varying
from DN 500 mm to DN 1500 mm of a total length of 12.5 km; main trunk sewer
pipeline (2 x DN1000 mm, 1.5 km long) river crossing, and outfall; a 4.96 km precast
concrete conveying pipeline (DN 1000 mm); a pumping station of 100,000 m3/day
capacity; 100,000 m3/d wastewater pre-treatment plant. (Using own funds, a 50,000 m3/d
secondarytreatment plant was constructed to complywith the central government
requirements.)

Leshan Municipal Solid Waste Management. Outputs include: four transfer stations; a
vehicle storage and repair facility; a sanitarylandfill with the capacityof 328 tons per day
and leachate treatment facilities; and collection and transportation vehicles, containers
and landfill operation equipment.

Component 2. Tuo River Basin

Deyang Wastewater. Outputs include: a WWTP of 100,000 m3/daycapacityand 4.7 km
of interceptors in the city. Deyang used its own funds (about US$ 4.3 million) to build
the interceptor and the connection of an existing interceptor along the eastern river bank.

Luzhou-Beijiao Water Supply. Outputs include: the construction and equipping of
additional pumps at the existing intake, a 50,000 m3/daycapacitytreatment plant,
construction of distribution mains, and strengthening of existing distribution network.
The implementation of the component has enabled the Luzhou-Beijiao Area to supply
potable water to 100% of the residents in the city's established districts.

Component 3. Urban Management Information Systems.

GIS-based urban management information systems including decision support systems
have been developed for Construction Commissions of the Province, Leshan, and Luzhou,
and an environmental management information system for the Provincial Environmental
Protection Bureau (EPB) has been installed.

Component 4. Environmental Protection and Rehabilitation.



                                              30

The major elements implemented at the Leshan Grand Buddha Site were the viewing
platform, the north gate river embankment and foundation improvement for Linbo
Pagoda, and rock anchors to protect the foundation of the Zaiiu Pavilion. A design for a
new access waywas developed, but was not implemented because there was no
consensus among members of the consultative committee on design of the new access
walkway.




                                           31

Annex 4. Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan (IPCAP)

The objectives for the year 2010 were that the drinking water sources meet the
government standards, and sewage treatment coverage in urban areas would reach 35%
and 75% of industrial water discharges. Bythe year 2010, water qualityin all rivers,
lakes and reservoirs would meet the standards and 75% of all wastewater in urban areas,
both municipal and industrial, would be properlytreated and discharged.

The following keyindustries have been identified as being responsible for a majorityof
the pollution loads along the Min and Tuo rivers and cities in Sichuan Province (SP): (a)
chemical/pharmaceutical, (b) fertilizer, (c) pulp and paper, (d) food processing, and (e)
mining.

Keyindustrial polluters, their pollution loads as indicated from their production database,
and flows of receiving water were used to identify 564 of the worst polluters in 2004, 237
in 2005, and 139 in 2006. Every year, the five worst polluters in each city/sector are
required to produce action plans and implement them, and incentives and sanctions are
applied. ByOctober 2006, industries discharging more than 100 m3/d were required to
install on-line COD monitoring equipment which were to be connected to the provincial,
cityand countynetworks.

Quantitative reductions in pollution made bythe 4 worst polluting industries named in
the IPCAP are given in Annex 1, and are repeated below.

Table 1. Pollution Reduction at Four Industries Addressed under the IPCAP

          Industry                 At Appraisal               End 2006      %Reduction
                             Pollutant        Quantity        Quantity
   Chuan Hua Fertilizer     Ammonia        5,500 t/yr      1,800 t/yr            67%
   Factory
   Zigong Honghe            COD            2,100 t/yr      740 t/yr              65%
   Chemical Fertilizer
   Factory
   Weiyuan Distillery       COD            6,000 t/yr      0 [Factory           100%
   Factory                                                 closed]
   Xinjin Jinhua            SS             55,000 t/yr     22,000 t/yr           60%
   Mirabilite Mine

Table 2. Total Municipal and Industrial Wastewater Discharges to Regional Rivers
(Tons/year)
                Description                2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
   Wastewater discharge (m3/RMB           169.3 127.3 127.3 111.8            88.5    79.3
   10,000 unit)
   Industrial wastewater %                  49.0    52.5     51.8    52.6    49.3    46.8
   Industrial wastewater m3/RMB           200.0     66.8     66.0    58.8    43.6    37.1
   10,000
   Percentage meeting discharge             59.5    72.4     79.1    81.8    86.4    88.3
   standards


                                             32

   Total COD (10,000 tons)                 97.6   99.2     70.1    93.6    88.2     78.3
   COD fromindustry (%)                    58.0   53.3     30.8    49.3    44.2     38.0
   Industry COD (10,000 tons)              56.2   46.3     48.5    47.5    49.2     29.8
   Industry NH3-N (10,000 tons)               -    2.6      2.6     2.9      2.5     2.0

In 2003, the State Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA) issued a Water Environment
Capacity (WEC) requirement for China's rivers. Water Environmental Capacityis
represented in three ways: (i) Desired WEC is calculated using a model; (ii) WEC is
calculated without considering flows from non-point sources; and (ii) Maximum Allowed
Discharge Capacityis calculated byconverting WEC to pollutant discharged from in land
sources. Negative numbers represent over-pollution; i.e., no capacityto accept pollution.
In December 2004, SP formulated WEC, which were approved bySEPA below:

Table 3. Sichuan Plan for Water Environmental Capacity: Rivers (Tons/year)
                             Desired WEC             WEC             Maximum Allowed
          Cities                                                         Discharge
                         COD         NH3-N     COD        NH3-N     COD         NH3-N
   Yangtze and Jinsha     655,088      26,073 583,265       14.016 622,288        15,699
   Rivers
   Min River              711,038      24,654 588,839        5,203 588.070         5,468
   Tuo River              151,224       4,806   80,182       -8,479   80.182       8,490

Table 4. Sichuan Plan for Water Environmental Capacity: Cities (Tons/year)
                             Desired WEC             WEC             Maximum Allowed
          Cities                                                         Discharge
                         COD         NH3-N     COD        NH3-N     COD         NH3-N
   Chengdu                  67,740      2,217   38,859       -2,529   38,436      -2,556
   Deyang                   20,535        840    9,115       -1,759     9,120     -1,752
   Leshan                 151,208       4,592 131,606        1,041 131,670         1,042
   Luzhou                 139,274       4,582 117,661           878 117,664          878

Table 5. Available Capacity Allowable for Discharge of Pollutants (Tons /year)
                             Desired WEC             WEC             Maximum Allowed
          Cities                                                         Discharge
                         COD         NH3-N     COD        NH3-N     COD         NH3-N
   Chengdu                  38,436     -2,556 194,605       17,294 -153,795      -19,452
   Deyang                    9,120     -1,752   20,986       3,778    -12,651     -5,661
   Leshan                 131,670       1,042   84,129       3,086    49,545      -1,633
   Luzhou                 117,664         878   37,858       3,816    79,803      -2,937

Table 6. Water Quality in Sichuan Rivers
   River           River Section     Water Quality    Water Quality     Rating
                                     2000             2005
   Yangtze         Luzhou            Class II         Class II          Better
   Min             Chengdu           Class IV         Class IV          Slightly Polluted
                   Leshan            Class III        Class III         Good
   Tuo             Deyang            Class III        Class IV          Slightly Polluted
                   Luzhou            Class IV         Class IV          Slightly Polluted



                                             33

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis

A. Project Level Analysis

Financial Rates of Return
Project level financial rates of return (FIRRs) were reevaluated for the wastewater
components of Chengdu Drainage Company (CDC), Deyang Wastewater Treatment
Company(DWTC) and Leshan Wastewater Treatment Company(LEWTC) and the
water supplycomponent of Luzhou Water Supply Company(LUWSC) under the
following major assumptions:

    (1) The project life of the wastewater and water supply components is 20 years;
    (2) Total project costs for this evaluation are summarized as follows;

                                            Table 1: Summary of Project Costs
                                                          (Y million)
                                                  CDC        DWTC LEWTC LUWSC
              Total Project Cost                    912          171       141      94
                Bank Funded Component               498          112       135      44
                Other Components                    414            59        6      50


    (3) Incremental operating revenues and operating costs are prorated based upon the
        ratio of the capacityof each plant related to the project to the overall capacityof
        each entity(please see the entitylevel analysis below for the entity-specific
        assumptions of water supplyvolume, average tariff, wastewater volume treated,
        etc.);
    (4) Wastewater tariffs for residential customers will be increased as shown in Table 2
        below. There will be no further wastewater tariff increase after 2011, but water
        tariffs will remain at the 2006 level; and

                                     Table 2: Tariff for Residential Customers/1
                                                   (Y/m3)
                                 2006     2007         2008         2009      2010   2011

         CDC                     0.80      0.80         1.04         1.04      1.04  1.35

         DWTC                    0.40      0.60         0.60         0.72      0.72  0.79

         LEWTC                   0.12      0.35         0.65         0.65      0.97  0.97

         LUWSC                   1.68      1.68         1.68         1.68      1.68  1.68

         /1 tariff at the end of year


    (5) Government subsidies are not included in this calculation.




                                                     34

The results are summarized in Table 3, showing that the FIRRs for all the components are
above each project's cost of capital which is in the range of 8.5%. Keyto these
calculations is that the wastewater tariffs will be increased as planned bythe wastewater
companies as shown in Table 2. The FIRRs evaluated at appraisal are also shown in
Table 3. However, they should not be directly compared with those in the ICR since the
assumptions were not clear in the PAD and the financial models have not been found in
the Project Files.

             Table3: Financial and Economic Rate of Returns (FIRRs and EIRR)
                                           FIRR                         EIRR
                                     ICR         PAD/1              ICR      PAD

             CDC                       10.6%          9.9%           -        -

             DWTC                      11.6%        10.7%            -        -

             LEWTC                     11.2%        10.0%            -        -


             LUWSC                     19.7%        11.5%          20.5%     10-12%  /2



             /1: Figures from Table 3 of Annex 4
             /2: The rate for LUWSC is not specified in PAD.


Given the delays in wastewater tariff revision during project implementation, the
sensitivityanalysis was conducted for wastewater companies in cases of delayin
implementation of tariff increases. The results are summarized in Table 3b, showing that
the FIRRs are still above the cost of capital even in case of 3-year delayin
implementation, as far as the proposed tariff increases are achieved.

           Table 3b. FinancialRateof Returns inCase of Delays in Tariff Increase
                                                                     FIRR
                                                        2 year delay      3 year delay

            CDC                                            9.7%              9.3%

            DWTC                                          11.1%             10.9%

            LEWTC                                          9.5%              8.7%


Economic Rate of Return
The economic rate of return (EIRR) was reevaluated for the water supplycomponent of
LUWSC under the following assumptions:
    (1) The project life is 20 years;
    (2) The actual and projected tariff levels are economic prices of water supplied by
        LUWSC;
    (3) The financial operating costs are economic costs; and
    (4) Taxes included in the project are 5.8% of the total project cost.
The EIRR is calculated at 20.5%, which ensures the economic viabilityof this project
component. A direct comparison of the EIRR from the PAD is not appropriate for the
same reasons described in the FIRR section.


                                                     35

B. Entity Level Analysis
The financial performance of the four entities was reviewed and the financial projections
were conducted to find whether or not each entity has complied and will be able to
complywith the two financial covenants; the cost recoveryratio of at least 1.0, and the
debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3. Financial projections were made under the
following assumptions for all four entities:
    (1) Government subsidies are counted as revenue in the financial ratios calculation;
        and
    (2) The terms of the Bank loans for the wastewater companies are extended from 15
        years to 20 years, including a grace period of five years.
The other major assumptions unique for each companysuch as population served, water
supplyvolume, tariff, wastewater volume treated, etc. are shown in the summarytable of
each entitybelow.

Chengdu Drainage Company (CDC)
The major fixed assets of the wastewater operation for the area served by CDC consist of
four treatment plants with a capacityof 900,000 m3 per day and a sewer network with a
book value of RMB 4.4 billion. CDC currentlyowns No. 1 and No. 2 treatment plants
with a capacityof 700,000 m3 and a sewer network constructed before 2003 with a book
value of RMB 2.4 billion. The remaining assets are still owned bythe Xing Rong
Investment Company, the holding companyof CDC. The entire sewer network is
operated bythe drainage section under the Water Resources Bureau, which bears its
operation cost. The CDC's audited financial statements reflect the financial results only
for the assets owned and the operations carried out byCDC. In this situation, CDC
compiled the data from the relevant entities and constructed the financial projections for
the wastewater operation as a whole for the area CDC serves. This consolidated financial
projection was used when it applied to the municipal government for its tariff increase in
2006. The financial performance summarized in Table 4 is based upon the estimates
made byCDC.

Table 4 shows that CDC complied with the cost recoveryratio covenant, but not with the
debt service coverage ratio covenant in 2006, and will be able to comply with all the
financial covenants except the debt service coverage ratio covenant in 2007. In order to
complywith the financial covenants, CDC will continue to require substantial subsidies
from the Chengdu municipal government. The level of required subsidy would be
reduced from 74% of total revenue in 2004 to 17% in 2011. The reliance on substantial
government subsidies is due mainlyto investments outside the Bank-funded project
which were financed substantiallybydebt. It is estimated that CDC had incurred long-
term debt of RMB 2.1 billion outside the Bank debt at the end of 2006. Additional
capital expenditures are not assumed in this financial projection.




                                             36

                                                Table 4: Summary of CDC'c Financial Performance and Projections
                                           2004       2005         2006         2007         2008           2009   2010    2011
Key Operating Indicators
Population Served (,000)                  3,614       3,622       3,629        3,636         3,643         3,651  3,658   3,665
Water Supplied fromWSC (million m3)         374        390          397         401          405            409    413     417
Wastewater Volume Treated to Generated      65%        83%          83%         83%           88%           88%     88%     88%
Wastewater Volume Treated (million m3)      146         274         285          293          310            310    310     310
Capacity Utilization Rate                 100%         83%          87%         89%           95%           95%     95%     95%
Collection Efficiency Rate                  82%        79%          80%         81%           83%           83%     83%     83%

Key Financial Indicators
Average Wastewater Tariff (Y/m3)            0.40       0.62         0.87         0.94         1.13          1.22    1.22    1.46

Total Operating Revenue (Y million)         119        189          273         304          376            411    415     503
Operating Income                            (24)        18          38           (10)          52            83      84    165
Subsidy                                     340        240          140         130          120            110    100     100
Net Income                                  316        258          43            (8)          35            54      53    112

Internal Cash Generation                    414        356          328         321          356            367    359     411
Debt Service Payment                          -        136          271         264          256            249    241     234

Total Assets                              6,089      6,737       6,644        6,500         6,398         6,316   6,232   6,208
Long-TermDebt                             2,214      2,573       2,437        2,301         2,164         2,028   1,892   1,756
Equity                                    3,867      4,164       4,207        4,199         4,234         4,287   4,340   4,453

Cost RecoveryRatio                          3.22       1.28         1.16         1.16         1.33          1.41    1.41    1.68
Debt Servcie Coverage Ratio                 4.76       1.36         1.21         1.22         1.39          1.48    1.49    1.76
Subsidy/Total Revenue                       74%        56%          34%         30%           24%           21%     19%     17%




           Deyang Sewage Treatment Company (DWTC)
           DWTC was established in 2000 to implement the wastewater treatment plant (WWTP)
           with a capacityof 100,000 m3 per day financed by the Bank. The Bank funded assets are
           still owned bythe investment companyof the municipal government, and will be
           transferred to DWTC in 2007 once the audit is completed bythe municipal government.
           The sewer network in the urban area is owned and operated bythe public utilitysection
           under the Construction Commission. Operation and maintenance (O&M) costs for the
           sewer network are borne bythe public utilitysection. The transfer of the sewer network
           assets is not planned at this stage, so DWTC will continue to be an operator of the
           treatment plant.

           Wastewater tariff collection started in 2005. Tariffs collected bythe water supply
           companyare not directly transferred to DWTC, but remain at the municipal finance
           bureau. For fiscal years 2005 and 2006, onlythe amount required for operating the plant
           was transferred to DWTC. The direct transfer of the wastewater tariff from the waste
           supplycompanyis not expected to take place in the immediate future.

           Table 5 is constructed based upon the assumption that the Bank-funded assets are the
           entire assets of DWTC, and revenues and costs are recognized in connection with such
           assets. This framework was used for review of the wastewater tariff when DWTC
           applied for its tariff increase in 2007. As shown in Table 5, DWTC did not complywith
           the financial covenant on debt service coverage ratio in 2006 and will not be able to
           complywith the covenants on both cost recovery and debt service coverage ratios in 2007.
           However, it would be able to complywith the covenants without government subsidies in
           2009 and onwards. This is onlypossible with a substantial increase in the population
           served in 2008 and with the tariff increases as planned in 2007 and 2009.



                                                             37

                                                        Table 5: Summary of DWTC'c Financial Performance and Projections
                                                  2004  2005       2006      2007      2008        2009      2010       2011
Key Operating Indicators
Population Served (,000)                           120   126        132       139       164         172       181        190
Water Supplied fromWSC (million m3)                  6    10        17        21        30          32        35         38
Ratio of Wastewater Volume Treated to Generated     0%   81%       81%       81%       81%         81%       81%        81%
Wastewater Volume Treated (million m3)              16    17         21        23        25          27        37         37
Capacity Utilization Rate                          N/A   51%       44%       48%       58%         63%       68%        73%
Collection Efficiency Rate                         NA    77%       90%       93%       95%         95%       95%        95%

Key Financial Indicators
Average Wastewater Tariff (Y/m3)                   0.00  0.49      0.49      0.54      0.69        0.73       0.83      0.85

Total Operating Revenue (Y million)                  -     8        10        12        20          22        28         31
Operating Income                                    (0)    4          2         1         7           9       14         14
Subsidy                                              1     2          6         2         1           -         -          -
Net Income                                          (0)    4          3        (0)        4           5         8          8

Internal Cash Generation                             0     6          9         8       12          13        15         16
Debt Service Payment                                 -     4          9         9         8           8         8          7

Total Assets                                       86    135       133       127       125         124       127        130
Long-TermDebt                                      27     63        58        53        47          42        36         31
Equity                                             40     66        69        69        72          77        85         93

Cost Recovery Ratio                               0.38  1.12       1.14      0.96      1.36        1.43      1.73       1.75
Debt Servcie Coverage Ratio                        NA   1.61       1.05      0.95      1.44        1.57      2.01       2.12
Subsidy/Total Revenue                             100%   20%       37%       11%         5%          0%        0%         0%




          Leshan Wastewater Treatment Company (LEWTC)
          LEWTC owns and operates the sewer network and the treatment plant with a capacityof
          50,000 m3 per day, all recorded in its financial statements. The sewer network and
          pumping stations were funded bythe Bank project while the treatment plant was financed
          bylocal commercial banks. The long-term debt of RMB 49 million from the commercial
          banks was identified in the financial statements but was not considered as debt by
          LEWTC. All the debt service payments were made bythe municipal finance bureau.
          Since the introduction of a wastewater tariff in 2001, tariff revenues have been directly
          transferred to LEWTC from the water supplycompany and total operating revenues
          calculated from its customer base were recorded in its financial statements. However,
          debt service payments and government subsidyhave not gone through LEWTC and thus
          are not recorded in the income statements and the cash flow statements.

          Table 6 incorporates the estimates of debt service payments and government subsidyinto
          the financial statements. As shown in Table 6, LEWTC did not complywith the financial
          covenants in 2006 and will not be able to complyin 2007. However, the financial
          situation will improve over time. It is estimated that LEWTC will be able to operate
          without government subsidyin 2011. Key for this result in the projection is that LEWTC
          will increase wastewater tariffs in 2008 and 2010 as planned. LEWTC plans to expand
          the treatment capacityto 100,000 m3 per dayin 2010. It is assumed in the financial
          projection that LEWTC will finance its entire investment byequity.




                                                         38

                                               Table 6: Summary of LEWTC'c Financial Performance and Projections
                                                2004      2005      2006      2007        2008       2009       2010 2011
Key Operating Indicators
Population Served (,000)                         242       246       253       260         268        276        284  291
Water Supplied fromWSC (million m3)              18        18         19       20          20         22         23    24
Wastewater Volume Treated to Generated           0%        0%        81%      83%         85%        88%        90%   92%
Wastewater Volume Treated (million m3)            15        15         16        17          17        18         20    21
Capacity Utilization Rate                       N/A        N/A       73%      78%         83%        92%        51%   55%
Collection EfficiencyRate                       94%       90%        81%      95%         95%        95%        95%   95%

Key Financial Indicators
Average Wastewater Tariff (Y/m3)                0.14      0.14       0.28      0.62        0.81      1.01       1.21  1.40

Total Operating Revenue (Y million)                2        2          4       11          16         21         26    32
OperatingIncome                                   (2)      (2)        (7)       (3)          0         5          9    13
Subsidy                                            2        7         16       11          11          6          6     -
Net Income                                         0        5          3         2           6         6         10     7

Internal Cash Generation                           3        8         13       14          17         17         21    18
Debt Service Payment                               -        4         15       15          14         13         13    14

Total Assets                                    162       199        224      216         213        211        240   263
Long-TermDebt                                    64        85         90       78          69         59         59    48
Equity                                           57        78         84       87          94        101        129   163

Cost RecoveryRatio                              1.03      1.37       0.94      0.98        1.19      1.22       1.41  1.27
Debt Servcie Coverage Ratio                     2.17      1.37       0.88      0.95        1.23      1.28       1.58  1.26
Subsidy/Total Revenue                           45%       78%        79%      48%         41%        23%        19%    0%




          Luzhou Water Supply Company (LUWSC)
          LUWSC was consolidated with other water supply companies in 2002 to form Luzhou
          Water Affairs Group Company(LWAGC), which currentlyowns four treatment plants
          with a capacityof 150,000 m3 per day (including the Bank funded Beijiao plant
          expansion of 50,000 m3 per day) and a sewer network. LWAGC purchases water
          supplied byNanjiao Water SupplyCompany, which was part of LUWSC and divested at
          the time of consolidation. LWAGC will be the successor to LUWSC under the
          subsidiaryloan agreement. Tariff revenue has been collected directly from customers
          since implementation of the project. It was reported that all operating revenues and costs,
          as well as assets and liabilities, are recorded in its financial statements. LWAGC does
          not receive government subsidies in connection with its water supplyoperation.

          Table 7 summarizes LWAGC's financial performance and projection. It complied with
          the financial covenants and will continue to do so in the future. LWAGC's cash balance
          was RMB 31 million at the end of 2006. It will be in a position to repaythe entire debt in
          2007 byits accumulated cash.




                                                           39

                                       Table 7: Summary of LWAGC's Financial Performance and Projections
                                       2004       2005      2006      2007        2008       2009       2010 2011
Key Operating Indicators
Population Served (,000)                201        215       238       245         324       333        343   353
Water Supplied fromWSC (million m3)     69         78        93        96         118        121        122   122
Service Area Coverage                  61%        65%       70%       70%         90%        90%        90%   90%
Capacity Utilization Rate              86%        100%      100%     100%         97%      100%        100%  100%
Collection EfficiencyRate              93%        93%       93%       93%         93%        93%        93%   93%

Key Financial Indicators
Average Wastewater Tariff (Y/m3)       1.41        1.41      1.87     1.85         1.85      1.85       1.85  1.84

Total OperatingRevenue (Y million)      52         55        58        60          74         76         76    76
Operating Income                        10           5         6        3          11          9          6     2
Net Income                               1           0         1        3            9         8          5     1

Internal Cash Generation                12         12        14        13          20         20         18    15
Debt Service Payment                     4           5       10         6            6         5          5     4

Total Assets                           220        247       262       248         267        290        310   327
Long-TermDebt                           66         41        39        36          33         31         29    28
Equity                                 101        108       119       108         116        124        129   130

Cost Recovery Ratio                    1.69        1.41      1.41     1.11         1.27      1.26       1.23  1.17
Debt Servcie Coverage Ratio            2.78        2.27      1.34     2.14         3.54      3.72       3.68  3.37




                                                      40

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

        Names                    Title               Unit         Responsibility/
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Geoffrey Read       Task TeamLeader             EASUR      Municipal Engineering
Chandra Godavitarne Consultant                  EASUR      Municipal Engineering
Patrick McCarthy    Consultant                  EASUR      Financial Analysis
Chongwu Sun         Environmental Spec.         EASUR      Environmental Assessment
David Hanrahan      Economist                              Economic Analysis
Donald Hankey       Environmental Protection    Consultant Cultural Heritage

Jack Fritz          Environmental Assessment    East Asia
                                                EnvironmentEnvironmental Assessment

Maninder Gill       Resettlement                           Social Development
Margaret Png        Legal Specialist            LEGEA      Legal Matters

Keiko Sato          Institutional Specialist    Trust Funds
                                                Unit       Institutional Analysis

Tore Semb           Solid Waste Management      Consultant Solid Waste Management
George Taylor       Water Quality/Treatment     Consultant Wastewater Treatment
You Ji              Env. Engineer/Interpreter   Consultant Interpreter
Sandra Durham       Financial Management                   Financial Management
Zhang Zhun          Water Supply/Inst Strthng EASUR        Water Engineering
Vellet Fernandes    ProgramAssistant            EASUR      Project Processing
Ming Zhang          Urb Planning/Land Mgmt      EASUR      Urban Planning
Supervision/ICR

Matts Anderson      Task TeamLeader             EASUR      Project Management/
                                                           Financial Analysis

Stuart Whitehead    Task TeamLeader             EASUR      Project Management/
                                                           Financial Analysis

Hiroaki Suzuki      Task TeamLeader             EASUR      Project Management/
                                                           Financial Analysis
Yi Geng             Financial Management Spec. EAPCO       Financial Management
Chandra Godavitarne Consultant                  EASUR      Municipal Engineering

Donald Hankey       Consultant                  EASUR      Engineering/ Cultural
                                                           Heritage
Anne K. Harrison    ProgramAssistant            EASUR      ProgramAssistant
Shunong Hu          Water Engineer              EASUR      Water Engineer
Eddie Ke-Siong Hum Consultant                   EASUR      Environmental Engineer
Naoko Kataoka       ET Consultant               EASUR      Operation support/M&E
Zong-Cheng Lin      Sr. Social Development Spec.EASES      Resettlement
Zhefu Liu           Social Development Spec     EASSO      Resettlement
Zhentu Liu          Sr. Procurement Specialist EAPCO       Procurement
Edouard Henri Motte Consultant                  EASUR      Municipal Engineer
Masato Sawaki       Consultant                  EASUR      Economic/Fin. Analysis



                                            41

Chongwu Sun           Sr. Environmental Specialist EASUR         Environmental Assessment
Yukiko Uchiyama       Consultant                   EASUR         Operation support
Masatake Yamamichi Consultant                      EASUR         ICR Documentation
Dawei Yang            Procurement Specialist       EAPCO         Procurement
Caroline Wu           Consultant                   EASUR         Economic/Fin. Analysis
Fang Zhang            Finance Analyst              LOADM         Disbursement
Hao Zhang             Municipal Engineer           EASUR         Municipal Engineering
Youlan Zou            Social Dev. Specialist       EASSO         Resettlement

Zhang Zhun            Consultant                   EASUR         Engineering
                                                                 /Inst.Strengthening

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                        No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                                travel andconsultant costs)
Lending
  FY96                                                                       25.59
  FY97                                                                       85.01
  FY98                                                                      169.34
  FY99                                                                      259.97
  FY00                                                                        0.00
  FY01                                                                        0.00
  FY02                                                                        0.00
  FY03                                                                        0.00
  FY04                                                                        0.00
  FY05                                                                        0.00
  FY06                                                                        0.00
  FY07                                                                        0.00
                            Total:                                          539.91
Supervision/ICR
  FY96                                                                      0.00
  FY97                                                                      0.00
  FY98                                                                      0.00
  FY99                                                                      0.32
  FY00                                           10                         75.44
  FY01                                            9                         71.84
  FY02                                           14                         92.39
  FY03                                           12                         68.46
  FY04                                            7                         58.21
  FY05                                            8                         69.38
  FY06                                           10                         85.74
  FY07                                            3                         18.30
                            Total:              73                          540.08




                                             42

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank             Ratings           Borrower           Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory Government:        Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory Implementing
                                     Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                         Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory Performance:       Moderately Satisfactory




                                     43

Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

             Borrower's Implementation Completion and Results Report

1. ASSESSMENT OFDEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES, DESIGN AND QUALITY
AT ENTRY

Original Objective

1.1     Full details of project objectives are provided in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) (Report No 18960 CHA dated May14, 1999). Specific objectives of the project
are: (a) reduction of total pollution loads from urban areas to the Min and Tuo Rivers
through selective high-impact wastewater and solid waste management improvements;
(b) expansion of capacity for supplying safe water in urban areas; and (c) strengthened
financial viability and institutional autonomyof municipal services.

Revised Objective

1.2     There has been no material change in the main project development objectives
(PDO) during implementation.

Original Components

1.3     The project investment program comprised the following components:

      Component 1 - Min Basin River Water Quality Recovery
      The investments included: (i) Chengdu Wastewater; (ii) Leshan Water Supply; (iii)
      Leshan Wastewater; and (iv) Leshan Municipal Solid Waste Management.

      Component 2 - Tuo Basin River Water Quality Recovery
      The investments included: (i) Deyang Wastewater (ii) Luzhou Water Supply; (iii)
      Zigong Wastewater; and (iv) Zigong Water Supply.

      Component 3 - Urban Management Information System
      The investments included: (i) Development of a Provincial Decision Support
      System (PDSS) and Office Automation System (OAS); (ii) Development of an
      Environmental Management Information System (EMIS) and a related OAS at the
      provincial level; and (iii) Establishment byDeyang, Leshan and Luzhou of Urban
      Management Information System (UMIS) centers.

      Component 4 - Environmental Protection and Rehabilitation
      The project component was to support improvements and environmental
      rehabilitation of infrastructure and buildings at the World Heritage Site of the
      Leshan Grand Buddha.




                                              44

      Component 5 - Institutional Development, Training and Construction
      Supervision
      This project component was to strengthen provincial, municipal, project, and
      financial management; construction supervision services; training in utility
      operations; updating of cityenvironmental action plans and feasibilitystudies; and
      future project preparation.

Non-Bank Financed (NBF) Component - Industrial Pollution Control

1.4     Since there was substantial pollution from industry particularlyin Min and Tuo
river basins, the Sichuan Provincial Government (SPG) agreed to address this issue
through the implementation of policy focused Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan
(IPCAP). The initial phase of the IPC would involve local investments at four large
polluting enterprises in the fertilizer, food and mining sectors.

PHRD Grant  Monitoring of Safeguard Implementation

1.5     A PHRD Grant (JPN-26426) was set up to monitor the Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) and Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) implementation in Sichuan Urban
Environment Project (SUEP).

Changes in SUEP

1.6     There was no change in the project components. However, there were several
changes in the components made after the approval of the Bank Loan in 1999, and after
the signature of the legal documents in 2001. There were also some changes in the
design of some of the project components in order to optimize the project outputs,
without changes in the Project Development Objectives (PDO). The major changes are
described at below.

Changes as Made after Approval by World Bank

1.7     In June of 1999, the World Bank approved the SUEP. The Project Appraisal
Document (PAD Number 18960 CHA) was completed on May14, 1999.

In late 1999 and early2000, Zigong municipality received national bonds and other local
funds to address the issues of shortage of water supplyand wastewater treatment in
Zigong. To utilize national and local funding, Zigong municipalitycancelled the Bank
loan for its water supply and wastewater components. Therefore, bythe end of 2006,
Zigong completed the construction of the water transmission main, distribution networks
and pump stations, and upgraded the existing water reservoirs to increase the capacityof
its water resources. The transmission main and network were increased from 223 km to
approximately500 km. For the wastewater component, Zigong built a 50,000 m3/day
wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) and a sewer system in 2004.

Changes as Made after the Legal Document Signature



                                               45

1.8    After the Zigong components were cancelled from the SUEP as financed by the
World Bank, the amended Loan Agreements relating to SUEP were signed on January9,
2001, and the effective date of SUEP was June 8, 2001. The cancellation and changes in
the sub-components are summarized below.

     Deleted sub-components

1.9    The following deletions and changes were made during implementation:

        Under Project Component 1, Leshan cancelled the water supplycomponent
           because the Leshan Water SupplyCompanywas no longer publiclyowned
           since 2001. The issue was recorded in the Aide-Memoire of the World Bank
           Supervision Mission in November 2001. Leshan used its own funds to
           upgrade the existing water treatment plants for increasing the capacityof
           water supplyas well as distribution networks. The implementation of the
           intake is planned for 2010, and the works for the raw water transmission will
           follow.
        Under Project Component 1, the contract for procurement of the landfill
           compactor had been cancelled in 2004. Since the Letter of Credit could not be
           issued bythe client in time, the supplier requested a contract price adjustment,
           and the supplier did not provide performance security. The operation of the
           landfill was done using a bulldozer instead of the compactor.
        Under Project Component 2, the Luzhou-Daxikou Water SupplyComponent
           was cancelled because Luzhou Chemical Company supplies water to the
           Daxikou area. This has been recorded in the Aide-Memoire of the World
           Bank Supervision Mission in November 2001. Indeed about 33,000 m3 per
           day were purchased in 2006 by Luzhou Water SupplyCompanyduring peak
           summer demand periods for RMB0.67 per m3, which was a better deal
           compared to the water tariff collected.
        Under Project Component 2, the Fuji Transmission main in the Luzhou-Beijao
           Water SupplyComponent was alreadyunder the construction in 2001, and the
           World Bank's November 2001 Mission was, therefore, requested to consider
           reallocating over US$1 million in Loan funds to upgrade and expand the
           distribution network in the Beijao area.
        Under Project Component 2, the civil works of the main interceptor and link
           sewer for Deyang Wastewater Component were financed in 2004 bynational
           bonds, as completion was requested bythe municipal government in time for
           the city's anniversary.
        Under Project Component 4, the original protection area of the Leshan Grand
           Buddha Site Administration (LGBSA) was expanded in January2004, from
           the 4 km2 core area to 17 km2. The new LGBSA Administration, therefore,
           decided to defer all remaining components including the walkwayto improve
           access to the Grand Buddha viewing platform, the Management Information
           System (MIS), etc. The walkwaywas deferred because of the concern that the




                                            46

             proposed design maynot complywith the requirements of national and local
             heritage experts.

Changes in Project Design Scope

1.10 The original design of Leshan wastewater included three pump stations for lifting
sewage in the interceptor sewer. During the detailed design stage, the designer optimized
the design in accordance with the comments of local experts and the Consultant. Only
the #3 pump station was constructed, cutting the cost of construction and operation.

All of the above changes were discussed with the World Bank (WB) during the
supervision missions. The agreed revisions were recorded in relevant mission Aide
Memories.

Changes in the Method of Implementation

1.11 In addition to the changes in the sub-components design, there were changes in
the engineering method of implementation for some project components. These changes
are summarized below.

(i) Leshan Municipal Solid Waste Management
To enhance the long term safetyof the landfill, Leshan Solid Waste Management Board
(LESMB) changed the grade of the material for the leakage protection lining during the
implementation stage. A higher qualityof high densitypolypropelene and geotextile
cloth lining materials were selected for landfill lining, and it was procured for the entire
area of the landfill instead of the original claylining system. This change significantly
increased the cost of the lining, but it also increased the qualityand safetyof the landfill.
In addition, due to the poor geological conditions of the landfill area, a collection system
for ground water was added.

(ii) Leshan Wastewater
The facilities of Instrumentation and Automation in the Project preparation document
were only applied to the Leshan Wastewater Pre-treatment Plant. During implementation,
the facilities were included for both the pre-treatment plant and secondary treatment plant
to ensure system compliance.

(iii) Institutional Development, Training and Construction Supervision
No change was made in the implementation of Construction Supervision. Due to the
lack of readiness of a number of subproject entities to make the necessary changes during
the project implementation, and inefficient inputs bythe international consultant, the
Project Implementing Agencies (PIAs) did not receive the expected level of service from
the international consultant. Therefore, an agreement was reached between the PIAs and
the consultant, with concurrence of the World Bank mission, to re-arrange the program
for institutional development and strengthening which would simplifythe international
consultants' involvement in the development process. Instead of using extensive inputs
from the international consultant, local consultants together with the PIAs were used to



                                               47

complete the assignment of Institutional Development as cited in the terms of reference
(TOR). This action reduced the cost of consultant services significantly.

Quality at Entry

1.12 Project preparation at appraisal can be evaluated as satisfactory, although the
PAD cost estimates proved excessive and the water demand and wastewater quantities
target for 2010 were over-estimated in Leshan. None of the revisions to components
described above amounted to a restructuring of the project. No changes were necessary
to achieve WB policies or strategies, although as stated earlier, the municipal
governments made changes or cancelled parts of the Bank loan, which took a significant
amount of time to become effective, and resulted in large loan savings.


2. ACHIEVEMENT OFOBJECTIVE AND OUTPUTS

Outcome / Achievement of Objective

2.1     Due to rapid urban development in Chengdu City, as well as in other regions of
the province, pollution had become serious since the early1990s. In order to mitigate
pollution, SPG formulated a comprehensive environmental protection plan to curb the
pollution. This plan was consistent with the Provincial Environmental Protection Plan
(updated once in everyfive years).

This project contributed significantlyto the mitigation of water pollution in the Min and
Tuo basin rivers, and contributed significantlyto the prioritysubprojects in water supply,
wastewater treatment, and solid waste management in other regions of the province. In
turn, the project will positivelyimpact the long-term economic and social development of
Sichuan Province.

The solid waste, water supplyand wastewater components in Chengdu, Deyang, Leshan
and Luzhou Cities are being well utilized and their positive impacts on the local
environment are already being achieved. Other water supply, wastewater and solid waste
management facilities provided bythe project in the province are also similarlywell
utilized. In summary, the project has achieved greater pollution load reduction objectives
than originallyenvisaged. The overall project can be evaluated as satisfactory.

In addition, the industrial pollution control program as specified in Industrial Pollution
Control Action Plan (IPCAP) has been implemented bythe project cities of Chengdu,
Deyang, Leshan and Luzhou under the guidance and supervision of Provincial
Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB) and Municipal Environment Bureaus. The
environmental and water qualitymonitoring component, and institutional development
component have comprehensively enhanced overall pollutant monitoring and mitigation,
environmental management, and capacitybuilding in the project region along the Min
and Tuo Rivers.




                                              48

Output by Components

2.2     The following components were completed:

Chengdu Wastewater (US$ 101.23 million PAD; US$ 112.5 million; December 2005)
Successfullyimplemented between 2002 and 2005. The implementation of the
component has enabled Chengdu Cityto have a wastewater collection and treatment
capacityof 900,000 m3/day, which is 85 % of total municipal sewage in Chengdu, and
100 % of the effluent discharge standard after treatment. It has a positive impact on the
reduction of the water pollutant load to the Min River.

Leshan Wastewater (US$ 20.09million PAD; US$ 17.10 million; July2006)
Successfullyimplemented between 2003 and 2006. The implementation of the
component has enabled Leshan Cityto have a wastewater collection and treatment
capacityof 50,000 m3/day, and the abilityto fully meet the effluent discharge standard
after treatment. It has a positive impact to the reduction of the water pollutant load
discharged to the Min River as well.

Leshan Municipal Solid Waste Management (US$ 9.82 PAD; US$ 8.6 million; July
2006)
The component has been satisfactorilyimplemented between 2003 and 2006. The
implementation of the component has enabled Leshan Cityto manage the collection,
transfer, and disposal of 220 tons/dayof solid waste in the landfill within the cityin an
environmentally friendly manner. It has prevented pollution to the Min River from
illegal dumping of solid waste, and from the leakage of leachate.

Deyang Wastewater (US$ 34.6 million PAD; US$ 22.2 million; June 2005)
The component has been satisfactorilyimplemented between 2003 and 2005. The
implementation of the component has enabled the cityof Deyang to have a total
wastewater collection and treatment capacityof 100,000 m3/day. Currently, the WWTP
has fullymet the effluent discharge standards of China. It has begun to substantially
reduce the discharge of water pollutants from the cityto the Mianyuan River, which
flows to the Tuo River.

Luzhou Water Supply (US$ 29.81 million PAD; US$ 11.7 million; December 2006)
Satisfactorilyimplemented between 2003 and 2006. The implementation of the
component with the increase of 50,000m3/day water supply and distribution networks has
enabled Luzhou-Beijiao Area to supplypotable water to 100% of the residents in the
city's established districts. It also optimized the utilization of water resources from the
Tuo River and Yangtze River.

Urban Management Information System(UMIS) (US$ 4.76 million PAD; US$ 3.5
million; May2006)
Satisfactorilyimplemented between 2002 and 2006. The digital mapping systems have
been established in Leshan and Luzhou, which have been managed by a division under
the municipal construction bureaus, and alreadyused in urban development and planning.



                                              49

The UMIS system also was developed, installed, and used for management and decision
making in the Provincial EPB, Provincial Construction Bureau, as well as municipal
construction bureaus for Leshan, Luzhou and Deyang.

Environmental Protection and Rehabilitation (US$ 7.74 million PAD; US$ 3.5
million; March 2006)
Because the original protection area of the LGBSA was expanded in January2004 from
the 4 km2 core area to 17 km2, the new LGBSA decided to defer the implementation of
all remaining components including the walkway to improve access to the Grand Buddha
viewing platform, the visitor centre, and the UMIS. The walkwaywas deferred because
of concern that the proposed design maynot complywith the requirements of national
and local heritage experts.
The component as implemented between 2002 and 2006 included the extension of
Buddha's Platform, embankment extension at the North Gate, and foundation
improvement for Linbo Pagoda, securing a loose rock section, and Zaijiu Pavilion, which
partially achieved the objective of improvements and environmental rehabilitation of
infrastructure and buildings at the World Heritage Site of the Grand Buddha.

Institutional Development, Training and Construction Supervision Component
(US$ 7.87million PAD; US$ 5.15million; November 2006)
Satisfactorilyimplemented in three packages as well as four sole source contracts
between 2002 and 2006. This component is further discussed below.

Non-Bank Financed (NBF) Component - Industrial Pollution Control
2.3     Keyindustrial polluters and their pollution loads indicated from their production
database, and flows of receiving water have been used to identify564 of the worst
polluters in 2004, 237 in 2005, and 139 in 2006. Every year, the 5 worst polluters in each
city/sector were required to produce action plans and implement them, and incentives and
sanctions were applied. For instance, Chuan Hua Fertilizer Factory, Zigong Honghe
Chemical Fertilizer Factory and Xinjin Jinhua Mirabilite Mine had reduced their key
pollutants by32%, 35% and 40% respectively, compared to the pollutant levels at
appraisal. ByOctober 2006, industries discharging more than 100 m3/d were required to
install on-line COD monitoring equipment which were to be connected to the provincial,
cityand countynetworks. It is certain that the water qualityin the regional rivers will
improve in the near future, although at the present, the river qualityshows no significant
positive changes.

2.4     PHRD Grant  Monitoring of Safeguard Implementation (US$ 0.4million
Grand; US$ 0.22million; June 2004)
Satisfactorilyimplemented between 2002 and 2004. The monitoring and assessment of
the RAP and EIA during SUEP implementation had been done by an external monitor -
the report states that the SUEP was implemented safelyand successfully. The manual for
implementation of environmental and social mitigation measures had been prepared, and
has also been used in the preparation of the Sichuan Urban Development Project (SUDP).

Net Present Value / Economic Rate of Return



                                            50

2.5     The economic rate of return (EIRR) and Net Present Value for each subproject as
well as for the overall project was not calculated at appraisal.

Financial Rate of Return

2.6     The financial rate of returns (FIRRs) projected in the PAD have generally not
been achieved. The notable exception to this is the Luzhou water supply, which has met
or exceeded most financial indicators, and is considered fullysustainable from a financial
perspective.

SPG is continuing to press for higher tariffs to be implemented, and revised guidelines
with increased tariff levels are expected to be issued shortly. Hopefullythe expected
FIRR will be achieved within two or three years in the project cities.

Institutional Development Impact

2.7 There are six subproject entities within the overall project. Among the six entities,
the LESMB and LGBSA are the state institutions under Leshan municipality, and all
companies have been established as state-owned companies - CDC is under Chengdu
Xingrong Investment Co., Ltd. These institutional developments are expected to improve
the prospects of sustainabilityfor the components concerned. The subprojects included
institutional capacitybuilding and training provided in three TA packages:

     Institutional Strengthening and Training ("Package A")
     Construction Supervision ("Package B")
     Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and Equipment ("Package C")

Services for Package C were related to the UMIS component, which were achieved as
intended in development of a provincial and municipal decision support system and
office automation system, as well as development of a management information system
in Deyang, Leshan and Luzhou.

The construction supervision tasks under Package B were substantiallyenhanced bythe
deeper involvement of international consultants in engineering design review, bidding
document preparation, construction supervision, progress monitoring, and reporting. The
enhanced involvement proved highlyeffective in speeding up project implementation and
in safeguarding project quality. The consultant performed the role of engineer in the
physical contracts, which was a new and good practice in the WB project in China. The
Federation Internationale des Ingenieurs Conseils (FIDIC) conditions and international
good management practices were applied to project management and construction
management, which not onlyensured the sound qualityof works and facilities, but also
trained the local engineers from the Provincial Project Management Office (PPMO) and
PIAs through presentations and on-the-job training. This beneficial management method
will be applied to their own projects.




                                             51

The institutional development tasks under Package A kept pace with the Government
plan and the provincial/city economic reforming process. At the project completion stage,
notable progress had been made in this area. Package A made computerized financial
management systems available to the implementing agencies on financial projection and
management, and partial training on institutional strengthening. However, the
effectiveness of this package was limited due to the Consultants being mobilized
immediatelyupon loan effectiveness and before the new utilities became fully
operational as enterprise companies.

There were also four sole source contracts awarded for SUEP engineering design and
geological survey, in order to improve engineering qualityin SUEP. Though the design
and surveyinstitutes provided the good technology in their design, the qualityof design
and service were not as good as expected. There were still manycontract variations
caused bypoor design qualityand inaccurate geological information, i.e. foundation of
structures, sewer installation, etc., which caused cost over-runs in the contract price of
some contracts.

Poverty Alleviation and Social Improvements

2.8     Whilst the objectives of the project were essentially environmental in nature, there
have been important social benefits. In project areas, several hundred permanent jobs
have been created in the public utilitycompanies and manytemporaryjobs were created
during the construction of the facilities. Millions of people are now benefiting from the
environmental improvements resulting from increased water supplycoverage and
reliabilityin Luzhou, and from the establishment/improvement of the sewerage system
and solid waste management in Chengdu, Deyang and Leshan. These improvements
have been especiallybeneficial for the poorer people in the local communities.

The mitigation of water pollution in Min and Tuo rivers will also benefit residents in both
cities and rural areas downstream of the project area, in terms of their health, hygiene and
agriculture production, even though the water qualityof rivers has not changed
significantly.


3. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

3.1     Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency

     Procurement contract packaging in the PAD were divided into too small segments,
        which had resulted in major changes in bid packages and delays in subproject
        executions at the beginning of project implementation.
     Due to lack of the experience in WB project procedures and competitive bidding
        processes, the project design institutes spent considerable time and effort
        preparing technical specifications and related technical documents.




                                              52

     Market price escalation on major construction materials (steel) during 2003 and
       2004 caused problems for construction progress on some civil works contracts,
       which had been bid on a fixed price basis.

3.2    Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
     Large national bonds had been introduced to Sichuan for projects of water supply
       and wastewater since 1999, and the reform of enterprises was under
       implementation during that time. Therefore, several sub-components were
       cancelled from the World Bank loan before the implementation of SUEP, such as
       the Zigong Water Supply and Wastewater components, Leshan Water Supply
       component and Luzhou Daxikou Water Supplycomponent, which caused delays
       in SUEP implementation, waste of preparation inputs, and resulted in large loan
       savings.
     In the Loan agreement, the Sichuan Provincial Government had agreed to timely
       adjustment of utilitytariffs to recover the costs of the subproject utilityentities.
       During project implementation, the utilitytariffs have been initiated and adjusted
       step bystep to the levels approaching break-even point. However, the utility
       entities will still need government financial support to maintain operations, except
       Luzhou Water SupplyCompany.
     Due to the changes of the Leshan citymaster plan, the original locations of
       transfer stations and the garage yard of Leshan Solid Waste component had to be
       changed during implementation. The land possessions for the transfer stations
       and garage yard had been deferred, resulting in significant design and
       construction delays.

Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control

3.3    At appraisal, the project costs estimated using government rates were too high
compared to the real cost of the project, which also caused loan savings.
The capacityand efficiencyof PIAs in managing the subprojects have been varied, which
had caused difficulties for the PPMO and PIAs to coordinate and communicate with the
relevant agencies for such a large-scale and comprehensive project. In addition, due to
the longer time period of implementation, project management teams and keypersonnel
changed frequently. All these factors caused difficulties in implementation.

Costs and Financing

Costs

3.4    Total project cost, including interest during construction, is currentlyestimated at
US$ 179.1 million, which is about 86% of the estimated project cost at appraisal
(US$ 208.06 million). The project cost is below the appraisal estimate for two main
reasons: (i) it is considered that the appraisal estimate was over-stated, particularlyin
regard to contingencies; and (ii) the physical project as implemented incorporated a
number of reductions in project scope, as described above. This makes direct
comparisons of actual and estimated costs less straight-forward.



                                              53

Financing

3.5     The necessary counterpart funds were provided through a mixture of additional
local borrowing, government grants, and own resources of the implementing agencies.
The final financing split is expected to be Bank Loan 25%: Government 75%, compared
to the appraisal split of Loan 40%: Government 60%. See Attachment: SUEP Project
Cost Summary.

4. SUSTAINABILITY

Rationale for Sustainability Rating

4.1     In overall terms the project can be considered sustainable, although there are, and
will continue to be, some transitional issues and problems particularlyin respect to local
tariffs and in the collection of these user fees. Sustainabilityneeds to be viewed in terms
of (i) the abilityof staff to operate and maintain the facilities, (ii) the institutional
arrangements put in place, and (iii) adequate financing arrangements for financial
sustainability.

The Luzhou Water Supply Company(LUWSC) can be considered fullysustainable in the
institutional, operational and financial context. It has matched its full production capacity
in the Luzhou-Beijiao area due to the shutting down of self supplyusers in the area and in
purchasing water from a chemical enterprise, which is an economic and sustainable way
to supplywater to the Luzhou-Daxikou area. The Chengdu, Deyang and Leshan
wastewater components are sustainable in the institutional and operational context, but
are not currentlyfinanciallysustainable, if they rely solelyon users fees for their
financing. The issues in these cases are both the level of tariffs and the effectiveness of
income collection arrangements. Chengdu Drainage Company (CDC) is owned by
Chengdu Xingrong Investment Co., and the sewer assets in Chengdu were transferred to
CDC but the sewers are still operated and managed bythe district governments. Deyang
Wastewater Treatment Co. (DWTC) is combined with Deyang Water SupplyCo., the
tariff collected could only cover the operation of the WWTP, and some of the existing
sewers are still owned and operated bythe district governments. Leshan Wastewater
Treatment Co. (LWTC), which is the onlycompanywhere the tariff collected is directly
transferred to the companywithout passing through the municipal Finance Bureau, has
owned the assets of the sewers, but are operated and maintained bythe district
government. The wastewater tariff collected can onlysupport the operation of the
WWTP. The scaled down investment and restricted scope of the Leshan solid waste
component suggests this had no impact on overall project sustainability.

In order to promote and ultimatelyachieve financial sustainabilityin wastewater
companies, the SPG as well as the central government have pressed local municipal
governments to introduce residential wastewater tariffs, and for these and other tariff
categories to be progressivelyincreased. All the project cities have introduced residential
tariffs and there have been several increases during project implementation. SPG is



                                              54

continuing to press for higher tariffs to be implemented and revised guidelines with
increased tariff levels are expected to be issued shortly. However, the municipal
governments, upon which responsibilityfor tariff setting rests, have been reluctant to
implement the SPG guidelines in full on grounds of perceived affordability and
unpopularityof such increases. Public awareness of wastewater services and the cost of
these services is also a factor, as these charges are new in China and will take time to be
accepted bylocal politicians and the public alike. At the time of writing this report,
further tariff increases were under active consideration in all of the SUEP project cities.

Customer acceptance and the enforceability of wastewater charges are the main factors
influencing income collection levels. Particular problems exist in relation to collection
from industries using their own supplies of groundwater. Regulations and penalties are
generallyinadequate to enforce the charges. This is a national problem, not just a
provincial or project problem, and is recognized as such bythe national Government.
The problem is being activelyworked on at a national level, and national-level guidance
and model regulations can be anticipated in the near future. It is not sensible or feasible
for local governments to act in advance of this national guidance. However, recognition
of the problem, and the fact that it is being attended to at the national level, suggests that
the problem is a transitional one. Thus, sustainabilityin the medium to longer term is
reasonablywell assured.

Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation

4.2     All the main components have been successfully commissioned and are operating
effectively. Bank-funded technical assistance and training support has proved valuable in
making the successful transition to regular operations.


5. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

Bank

5.1     The WB's performance during the phases of identification, preparation, appraisal
and implementation for the project is considered to be satisfactory. The diligence of WB
managers and staff was appreciated by all the implementing agencies. The work of the
WB Beijing Office was highlyappreciated in terms of timelyinstructions to SUEP on
WB procedures, review, comments, and approval of bid documents.

Quite a number of Task Managers from the WB had worked on this project, and all of
them had made valuable contributions to the successful implementation of the project.
However, the changes of the Task Managers were a little too frequent than expected,
resulting in delayed actions from the Bank side during implementation, especiallyin
evaluating the loan savings projects.

Borrower




                                              55

5.2      The national and provincial governments' commitment to the project remained
strong and supportive during all phases of the project. The PPMO, CityPMOs and PIAs
resumed active management functions throughout the project. Each subproject entity
designated necessary resources to execute the subproject.

The Government has assisted all the subproject entities to gather sufficient counterpart
funding. Leshan wastewater and solid waste components experienced counterpart
funding difficulties, which theyworked hard to resolve and, in the end, did so
successfully.

Municipal governments in the project region have given the utmost support for
construction at all the subproject sites. Most of the construction sites have required
strong coordination for the layout of pipelines in the busy citystreets. Government
support is also related to the successful implementation of the project-related land
acquisition and resettlement.

Provincial and municipal governments have made great efforts towards initiating and
adjusting the wastewater tariff. Rapid tariff increases have notable impacts on social and
economic situations; hence the government has formed action plans for tariff adjustments.

6. LESSONS LEARNED

6.1      The SUEP is an important project for the Sichuan Province to significantly curb
its pollution and to create a sustained environment for its economic and social
development. The implementation process has been a successful and valuable experience
for all the agencies involved. Lessons have been learned in many aspects of project
execution. A brief summaryof experience and lessons learned is presented below:

     Experience was gained in the development of a large scale environmental project,
         which comprehensivelyconsidered feasibility, alternatives, least-cost approach,
         institutional development, policysupport, and the impacts to the environment,
         society, economy, poverty reduction and long-term sustainability. Good
         experience has been adopted in preparation of the second WB project in Sichuan.
     Good construction supervision and contract management systems similar to the
         FIDIC, as well as good international practices have been adopted, with
         improvements being made in contact management, cost control, quality control,
         etc. More and more staff also benefited from training on project management and
         construction management provided bythe international consultants. This good
         experience will influence future project management in China, and a similar
         system will be adopted in Sichuan's second WB project, SUDP.
     In the project preparation stage, feasibilitystudies must be conducted with enough
         detail and understanding. Cost estimates and physical and financial contingencies
         at appraisal using government rates proved excessive. The project target setting
         should be realistic, i.e. water and wastewater quantities in 2010 in Leshan were
         over-estimated. Setting realistic goals and using a phased with a workable action
         plan maybe more practical.



                                              56

   Careful study, detailed discussion, and more transparencyshould be fostered
      among the PIAs, PPMO, consultants, as well as the WB during the preparation of
      the project to avoid changes and cancellations during implementation. The major
      changes and cancellations in SUEP caused the delayof the implementation
      schedule and the waste of preparation inputs, which will also affect the
      achievement of the PDO and large loan savings.
   Assessment of the loan savings project in SUEP took a long time, which is one of
      the reasons whythe loan savings project were totallycancelled in SUEP. A
      simplified procedure for the use of loan savings is suggested to enable full use of
      the WB loan.


Attachment - SUEP Project Cost Summary

                                                                   At           At ICR

                                                               Appraisal      December
                                                                                 2006
Estimated Costs                                               US$ million US$ million

Project Component 1- Min River Water Quality Recovery
   Chengdu Wastewater                                            101.2           111.2
   Leshan Wastewater                                              20.1            16.5
   Leshan Solid Waste                                             9.8              8.3

Project Component 2- Tuo River Water Quality Recovery
   Deyang Wastewater                                              34.6            21.7
   Luzhou Water Supply                                            29.8            11.1

Project Component 3 - Urban Management Information
System
   Operation Management Support System (OMSS)                     4.8              2.7

Project Component 4-Environmental Protection and Rehabilitation
   Leshan Grand Buddha                                            7.7              3.5

Project Component 5-Institutional Strengthening, Training and Construction Supervision
   Package A                                                                       0.9
   Package B                                                                       2.1
   Package C                                                                       1.2

   Total of Project Cost                                         208.1           179.2

WB Finance
   IBRD                                                          100.0            44.2
   IDA                                                            2.0              0.7

   Total of WB Finance                                           102.0            44.9

IBRD deducted Leshan Water and Luzhou Daxikou Water
components                                                        80.4




                                           57

Project Cost Split at Appraisal Loan 40%: Government 60%
Project Cost Split at Completion Loan 25%: Government 75%




                                      58

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  1. Water sector studyfor Sichuan Province (COWI Consultants)
  2. Project feasibilitystudies and project proposal
  3. Project Appraisal Document
  4. Loan Agreement
  5. Project Agreement
  6. Mission Aide Memoires and Back-to- Office reports
  7. Implementation Status Reports
  8. Project Progress Reports
  9. Solid waste pricing study for Leshan
  10. Development Plan for the Leshan Grand Buddha site




                                         59

