Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3251 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 4496 CHA
Project Agreement
(Sichuan Urban Environment Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SICHUAN PROVINCE
Dated January 9, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3251 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 4496 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 9, 2001, among the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank) and Sichuan Province (Sichuan).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,500,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
Sichuan agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth 
in this Agreement; 
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to one 
hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Sichuan agrees to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS Sichuan, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, respectively) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth, and, wherever used in this Agreement 
(except in Section 5.03, paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Part A.2 of 
Section I and Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement), reference to the 
Association, the Credit or the Credit Account shall also be deemed as reference to the 
Bank, the Loan and the Loan Account, respectively.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Section 2.01. (a) Sichuan declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall:
(i)
cause Chengdu to carry out Parts A(1) and F of the Project, of 
which Part A(1) shall be carried out through 
Chengdu Drainage Company;
(ii)
cause Leshan to carry out Parts A(2), A(3), A(4) and F of the 
Project, of which Part A(2) shall be carried 
out through Leshan Water 
Supply Company, Part A(3) shall be carried out through Leshan Wastewater Treatnent 
Company and Part A(4) shall be carried out through Leshan 
Environmental Sanitation and Management Bureau; 
(iii)
cause Deyang to carry out Parts B(1) and F of the Project, of 
which Part B(1) shall be carried out through 
Deyang Sewage Treatment 
Corporation;
(iv)
cause Luzhou to carry out Parts B(2) and F of the Project, of 
which Part B(2) shall be carried out through 
Luzhou Water Supply 
Company; 
(v)
carry out Part C(1) of the Project; 
(vi)
cause Deyang and Luzhou to carry out Part C(2) of the Project;
(vii)
cause Leshan and Luzhou to carry out Part C(3) of the Project;
(viii) cause Leshan and Luzhou to carry out Part C(4) of the Project;
(ix)
cause Leshan to carry out Part D(1) of the Project;
(x)
cause Guanghan to carry out Part D(2) of the Project; 
Page  3
(xi)
carry out Part D(3) of the Project; and
(xii)
carry out, and cause the Project Municipalities (excluding 
Guanghan) and their respective Utility Companies 
to carry out, Part E 
of the Project,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Sichuan shall otherwise agree, Sichuan shall carry 
out the Project, or carry out the Project through the Project Municipalities, in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) Sichuan shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 
1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 
9.09 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions referred to in 
Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement, and without limitation 
thereto, Sichuan shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to Association not later than 
six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Sichuan 
and the Association, a plan for the future operation of the 
Project; and  
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with Sichuan on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Sichuan shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit.
(b)
Sichuan shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Sichuan of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Sichuan shall maintain, or maintain through the Project 
Municipalities, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of Sichuan responsible for carrying out the 
Page  4
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Sichuan shall, or shall through the Project Municipalities:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the 
end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit 
thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Sichuan thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement shall terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates 
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify Sichuan of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, or under the General 
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram  to  the  party  to which  it  is required or permitted  to  be 
given  or  made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other 
addresses as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
Page  5
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Sichuan:
Sichuan Provincial People's Government
37 Nan Xin Street
Chengdu 610016
Sichuan Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
2639, Chengdu
60108 SCFAO CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Sichuan may be 
taken or executed by its Governor or Vice-Governor, or by such other person or persons 
as Sichuan shall designate in writing, and Sichuan shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03.  As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to 
Sichuan and so long as the Development Credit Agreement  shall not have terminated 
prior to the termination of the Loan  Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of Sichuan to consult with, and to furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to 
the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to, Sichuan shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the 
Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant  to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in  
Beijing, People's Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
Page  6
SICHUAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of goods or works to be financed in whole or 
in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of 
the Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works and goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages, each estimated to cost $6,000,000 equivalent or more and $400,000 equivalent 
or more respectively.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau 
Administrativc Region of the Borrower). 
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$6,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Page  7
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $6,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $39,300,000 equivalent; and (b) goods estimated 
to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$6,000,000 or more; and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:  General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provision of the 
following Parts of this Section II.
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of consultants’ services to be financed in 
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraphs 1.6 
and 1.8 of the Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be 
deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  8
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Parts C and D of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for under Parts C and D of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with 
the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Least-cost  Selection
Services under Part C of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines and which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
Page  9
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program shall consist of the provisions set forth or referred to below.
Project Management
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, Sichuan shall:
(a)
continue to maintain: 
(i)
a project management office (the Project Management Office, also 
referred to as ‘PMO’), with functions 
satisfactory to the Association, 
staffed by qualified personnel in adequate numbers, to be responsible for: 
the overall coordination, management, supervision and quality assurance 
of Project execution; the 
supervision of the procurement of goods 
and services thereunder; the preparation and furnishing to the 
Association of reports and other information thereon; and annual budget preparation 
for the Project; and 
(ii) 
an urban management information systems center (also referred to 
as ‘UMIS’), with functions satisfactory to 
the Association, staffed 
by qualified personnel in adequate numbers, to be responsible for carrying out 
Sichuan’s activities under Part C of the Project. 
(b)
ensure that each Project Municipality (excluding Guanghan) shall:
(i)
continue to maintain a project office with functions satisfactory 
to the Association, staffed by qualified 
personnel in adequate 
numbers, to be responsible for: the coordination and supervision of the execution of 
its and its Utility Company’s Respective Part of the Project; the 
supervision of the procurement of goods 
and services under its and 
its Utility Company’s Respective Part of the Project; and the preparation and 
furnishing to PMO of reports and other information thereon; and 
(ii)
establish urban management information system centers (also 
referred to as “UMIS Centers”) in accordance 
with a program acceptable 
to the Association and, thereafter, maintain such UMIS Centers with functions 
satisfactory to the Association, staffed by qualified personnel in 
adequate numbers, to be responsible 
carrying out their respective 
activities under Part C of the Project. 
Page  10
Resettlement Action Plan and Environmental Assessment
2.
Sichuan shall take and, where appropriate, shall through the Project 
Municipalities take, all measures necessary to ensure that the Project shall be 
carried out in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan and the Environmental 
Assessment.
3.
Sichuan shall ensure that any proposed revision of the Resettlement Action Plan 
or the Environmental Assessment shall be furnished to the Association for prior 
approval.
Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan
4.
Sichuan shall: 
(a)
carry out its part, and shall cause Chengdu, Deyang, Leshan and Luzhou to 
carry out their respective parts, of the Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan, in 
a manner satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
not modify or amend the Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan without 
the prior concurrence of the Association. 
Financial Arrangements
5.
Sichuan shall make available to Leshan the proceeds of the Credit under 
arrangements satisfactory to the Association, which shall include, without limitation, 
the following principal terms:
(a)
The principal amount so made available to Leshan:
(i)
shall be the equivalent in terms of Special Drawing Rights 
(determined on the date, or respective dates, of 
withdrawal from the 
Credit Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account of 
Part D(1) of the Project; and
(ii)
shall be repaid in a foreign currency selected by Sichuan in 
amounts equivalent (as of the date, or 
respective dates, of 
repayment) to the amount in Special Drawing Rights so made available.
(b)
Sichuan shall recover such principal amount over a period of seventeen 
(17) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.
(c)
Sichuan shall charge a service charge on such principal amount, withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate to the service charge applicable to the 
Credit pursuant to the provisions of  Section 2.05 of the Credit Agreement.
(d)
Sichuan shall charge a commitment charge on such principal amount, not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to the commitment charge applicable to the 
Credit pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.04 of the Credit Agreement. 
6.
Sichuan shall allocate to each Project Municipality an amount of the Loan under 
arrangements satisfactory to the Association, which shall include, without limitation, 
the following principal terms:
(a)
The principal amount so made available to each Project Municipality: 
shall be the amount in Dollars (on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account 
of said Project Municipality’s Respective Part of the Project and its Utility 
Page  11
Company’s Respective Part of the Project.
(b)
Sichuan shall recover such principal amount over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.
(c)
Sichuan shall charge interest on such principal amount, withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from 
time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement.
(d)
Sichuan shall charge a commitment charge on such principal amount, not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to the commitment charge applicable to the 
Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
7.
Sichuan shall cause each of the Project Municipalities (excluding Guanghan) to 
relend the portions of the proceeds of the Loan, which was allocated to it pursuant 
paragraph 6 of this Schedule for the purposes of carrying out its Utility Company’s 
Respective Part of the Project, to its Utility Company under a subsidiary loan 
agreement to be entered into between said Project Municipality and its Utility 
Company: (a) on the principal terms set forth in Section I of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and (b) under conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, 
and which shall include, without limitation, those set forth in Section II of Schedule 
3 to this Agreement.
8.
(a)
Sichuan shall ensure that each Project Municipality shall cause its 
Utility Company to:
(i)
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement to which said Utility Company 
is a party, all of the 
obligations of said Utility Company therein set forth; 
(ii)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable said Utility Company to perform such obligations; and
(iii)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
(b)
Sichuan shall, and shall cause each Project Municipality to, exercise its 
rights under each Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which it is a party in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, Sichuan and said Project 
Municipality and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement to 
which Sichuan or said Project Municipality is a party or any provision thereof.
Water Supply and Wastewater Supply Distribution Systems (Parts A and B of the Project)
9.
For the purpose of carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, Sichuan shall 
cause each Project Municipality, through its appropriate Utility Company, to implement 
said Utility Company’s time-bound investment program, acceptable to the Association, 
to strengthen such Project Municipality’s water supply distribution and wastewater 
collection systems.
Leshan Solid Waste Collection and Disposal Services (Part A(4) of the Project)
10.
For the purpose of carrying out Part A(4) of the Project, Sichuan shall cause 
Leshan, through Leshan Environmental Sanitation Management Bureau, to:
Page  12
(a)
furnish to the Association for comments by July 1, 2001:
(i)
results of the study, carried out in accordance with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, on 
user fees and charges 
necessary to recover the full costs of providing solid waste collection and disposal 
services to industrial and commercial users; and
(ii)
a draft time-bound action plan, based on the results of said study 
and its recommendations, for the 
recovery of said full costs 
commencing on October 1, 2001; and 
(b)
thereafter, implement said action plan, taking into account the 
Association’s comments.
Institutional Development and Training
11.
Sichuan shall carry out, and shall cause each Project Municipality to carry out, 
Part E of the Project in accordance with a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association and said action plan shall not be modified without the agreement of the 
Association.
Monitoring and Reporting
12.
Sichuan shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project, including the Resettlement Action Plan 
and the Environmental Assessment, as well as the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, the following semi-annual reports on January 31 and July 
31 in each year, beginning on January 31, 2001, integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 12(a) of this 
Schedule 2, based on the semi-annual progress reports prepared by the municipal 
project offices and UMIS Centers referred to in paragraph 1(b) of this Schedule 2, on 
the physical and financial progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the preceding semester (the report due on July 31, 2004
to summarize progress achieved 
during the period, January 31, 2001 through June 30, 2004) and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
after furnishing each report referred to in paragraph 12(b) of this 
Schedule 2, review said report with the Association (the report due on July 31, 2004, 
shall be reviewed with the Association by September 30, 2004, or such later date as 
the Association shall request), and promptly take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project (including, when applicable, the carrying out of 
the Resettlement Action Plan and the Environmental Assessment) and the achievement of 
the objectives minutes thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said 
report and the Association's views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
For the purposes of paragraph 7 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the terms of 
availability of the Loan proceeds shall be those set forth in Section I of this 
Schedule 3 and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall be entered into on the conditions 
set forth in Section II of this Schedule 3.
Page  13
Section I.
Terms of Availability
1.
The principal amount of each Loan made by a Project Municipality to its Utility 
Company, shall be the amount in Dollars (on the respective dates of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account 
of said Utility Company's Respective Part of the Project.
2.
Each Utility Company shall repay such principal amount over a period of not more 
than fifteen (15) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years. 
3.
Each Loan from the Project Municipality to its utility company shall bear 
interest on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
at a rate not less than the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Loan 
pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement.
4.
The Project Municipality concerned shall charge a commitment charge on such 
principal amount, not withdrawn from time to time at a rate not less than the 
commitment charge applicable to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan 
Agreement.
Section II.
Conditions
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include the following principal conditions.
1.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out the Utility Company’s Respective Part of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with:
(i)
appropriate technical, financial, engineering and public utility 
practices; and
(ii)
appropriate health, safety and environmental standards acceptable 
to the Association, and provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, 
facilities and other resources required for the purpose; and 
(b)
without limitation on the foregoing take all measures necessary to ensure 
that its Utility Company’s Respective Part of the Project shall be implemented in 
accordance with its respective resettlement plan under the Resettlement Action Plan 
and the Environmental Assessment.
2.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to procure the goods and services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement, and utilize such goods and services exclusively in the carrying 
out of its Utility Company’s Respective Part of the Project. 
3.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to enable the Association, Sichuan and the 
Project Municipality concerned to inspect such goods and the sites and works included 
in its Utility Company’s Respective Part of the Project, the operation thereof, and 
any relevant records and documents.
4.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound business practice, including, without limitation, such insurance 
to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any 
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Utility 
Company to replace or repair such goods.
5.
Each Utility Company shall undertake to:
(a)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition;
(b)
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
Page  14
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association and the Project Municipality concerned; 
(c)
furnish to Sichuan, the Project Municipality concerned, and to the 
Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the 
end of each such year:
(i)
certified copies of said financial statements and accounts for 
such year as so audited; and 
(ii)
the report of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail 
as Sichuan, the Association and/or said 
Project Municipality shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(d)
prepare and furnish to the Association, Sichuan, and the Project 
Municipality concerned all such other information concerning said records, accounts 
and financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association, Sichuan, 
and/or said Project Municipality shall reasonably request.
6.
The Leshan Water Supply Company and Luzhou Water Supply Company shall for each 
fiscal year as of 2001, undertake:
(a)
to produce total revenues, equivalent to not less than the sum of:
(i)
its total operating expenses; and
(ii)
increases in working capital other than cash, debt service 
requirements and 20% of the annual average of 
its capital expenditures 
incurred, or expected to be incurred, for the current year, the previous fiscal 
year and the next following fiscal year;
(b)
 to review, before September 30 in each fiscal year as of fiscal 2001, 
and on the basis of forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Association, 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof, in 
respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and furnish to the Association 
the results of such review upon its completion; and
(c)
if any such review shows that it would not meet the requirements set 
forth in subparagraph (a) hereof for the fiscal years covered by such review, promptly 
to take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the 
structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
7.
The Chengdu Drainage Company, Deyang Sewage Treatment Corporation and Leshan 
Wastewater Treatment Company shall for each fiscal year as of  2001, undertake:
(a)
to produce total revenues, equivalent to not less than the sum of:
(i)
its total operating expenses; and
(ii)
the amount by which debt service requirements exceeds the 
provision for depreciation;
(b)
to review, before September 30 in each fiscal year as of fiscal 2001, and 
on the basis of forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Association, whether 
it would meet the requirements set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof, in respect of 
such year and the next following fiscal year and furnish to the Association the 
results of such review upon its completion; and
(c)
if any such review shows that it would not meet the requirements set 
forth in subparagraph (a) hereof for the fiscal years covered by such review, promptly 
to take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the 
structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
8.
Each Utility Company shall undertake not to incur any debt unless a reasonable 
forecast of its revenues and expenditures shows that its estimated net revenues for 
each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 
Page  15
times its estimated debt service requirements in such year on all of its debt 
including the debt to be incurred.
9.
Each Project Municipality shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right 
of each Utility Company to which it has made a Subsidiary Loan to the use of the 
proceeds of such Subsidiary Loan upon failure by said Utility Company to perform its 
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
10.
For purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term “total revenues” means the terms of total operating revenues and 
net non-operating income.
(b)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all sources 
related to operations.
(c)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, and, except for water supply companies, provision for depreciation on a 
straight line basis at a rate of not less than 3.3% per annum of the average current 
gross value of the Utility Company's fixed assets in operation, or other basis 
acceptable to the Association, but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(d)
The average current gross value of the Utility Company's fixed assets in 
operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross value of its fixed 
assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from 
time to time in accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation 
satisfactory to the Association.
(e)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other 
charges on, debt.
(f)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Utility Company maturing by 
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(g)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: 
(i)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument providing 
for such debt or for the modification of 
its terms of payment on 
the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and
(ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing 
for such guarantee has been entered into.
  (h)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(i)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations and net 
non-operating income, and
(ii)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt.
(i)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(i)
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; 
and
(ii)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred 
in the generation of revenues in (i) 
above.
(j)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by the Utility 
Company not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
Page  16
question, which both the Bank and said Utility Company accept as reasonable and as to 
which the Association has notified said Utility Company of its acceptability, provided 
that no event has occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial condition 
or future operating results of said Utility Company.
(k)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference between 
current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
(l)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within twelve 
months, including accounts receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(m)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will become 
due and payable or could under circumstances then existing be called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(n)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on account of 
fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, related to operations. 
11.
Whenever, for the purposes of this Schedule, it shall be necessary to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
