Document of
The World Bank                       FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-254 la-MAU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR THE
GORGOL IRRIGATION PROJECT
August 21, 1980
This docuent bas A restricted distribution and way be used by recipients only In the perfonrmnce of
their offichd duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bak autherizatl.n.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =      Ouguiya (UM)
US$1.00            =      UM 45.00
UM I million       -      US$22,222
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BMDC      -     Banque Mauritanienne pour le Developpement et le Commerce
GPD       -     Gorgol Project Directorate
FAC       =     Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED             F Fonds Europeen de Developpement
IFAD      -     International Fund for Agricultural Development
KfW       -     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
OPEC      =     Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
OMVS      -     Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve
Senegal
SONADER         Societe Nationale pour le Developpement Rural
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GORGOL IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Beneficiary:         Societe Nationale pour le Developpement Rural (SONADER)
Amount:              SDR 11.4 million (US$15.0 million) equivalent
Terms:               Standard IDA terms
Relending Terms:    Grant
Project
Description:         The Gorgol project would develop 3,620 hectares by
gravity irrigation for rice, maize, sorghum, and some
vegetable cultivation. At full development in 1996, it
would produce 26,800 tons of cereal and would settle
4,640 families (28,000 people), providing employment to
about 14,000 people. The project works would comprise
construction of a concrete dam (Foum el Gleita), a convey-
ance canal, irrigation and drainage networks, service
roads, and buildings. The project would also include
technical assistance, extension services, farm inputs
and equipment, and the creation of 15 villages. It
would be implemented by SONADER, a Government rural
development agency established in 1975 with IDA
assistance.
The project would form a nucleus of development in the
southeastern part of the country, with an estimated
three-fold increase in the present US$50 per capita
income derived from agriculture. It would also bring
foreign exchange benefits since its total production would
represent 50 percent of the present annual import of
cereals in normal years. Because the project is the first
large irrigation scheme of its kind in Mauritania, there
are some risks. In particular, there may be delays in
introducing new technology and in recruiting farmers and
settling them. The risks are limited, however, by the
adoption of a realistic pace of development, and by the
measures taken to strengthen SONADER.
Estimated Cost:      The total cost is estimated at US$93.2 million equivalent,
of which about US$67.0 million (about 72 percent) would be
foreign exchange. The project would be exempted from
identifiable taxes and duties. A summary cost table is
shown on the following page:
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Local    Foreign    Total
---US$ million-------
(rounded)
INVESTMENT
1.  Dam                              2.7         12.0     14.7
2.  Irrigation works
Contract                     5.1         20.2      25.3
Force Account                1.8          3.4       5.2
3.  Buildings                        2.5          1.3       3.8
4.  Rice mill                        0.2          0.9       1.1
5.  Vehicles and farm
equipment                    0.3          1.6       1.9
6.  Supervision                      0.9          0.7       1.6
TOTAL INVESTMENT                    13.5         40.1     53.6
OPERATING COSTS
1. Salaries
Local                         2.4            -       2.4
Expatriate                    1.3          3.2       4.5
2.  Agricultural inputs              0.4          1.3       1.7
3.  Other operating costs            0.6          2.3      2.9
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                4.7          6.8     11.5
REFINANCING OF CREDIT S-16 MAU         -          0.5      0.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/
1.  Base                            18.2         47.4     65.6
2.  Physical contingencies           2.2          5.7      7.9
3.  Provision for price                                      -
increase                      5.8         13.9      19.7
TOTAL                               26.2         67.0     93.2
1/  Project cost is given net of taxes as Government has agreed to exempt
the project from all import duties and other identifiable taxes.
Tentative Financing Plan:
Institutions                       US$ million              Percentage
1.  Abu Dhabi Fund                       6.4                      7
2.  FAC                                  5.4                      6
3.  FED                                 16.3                     17
4.  IDA                                 15.0                     16
5.  IFAD                                10.0                     11
6.  Islamic Dev. Bank                    6.0                      6
7.  KfW                                  8.0                      9
8.  Libya                               10.0                     11
9.  Saudi Fund                          10.0                     11
10. Government                           3.2                      3
11. Farmers                              2.9                      3
TOTAL                                   93.2                    100



- ii~i -
Estimated Disbursements:           FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
--------------(in US$ millions)         …
Annual                   4.7      4.1      3.4      1.0     1.0      0.8
Cumulative               4.7      8.8    12.2    13.2    14.2    15.0
Economic Return:               7.4 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:       Report No. 2517a-21AU dated August 21, 1980
Maps:  IBRD 13753R and 13754R






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR THE GORGOL IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania for the equivalent
of SDR 11.4 million (US$15 million) to help finance the Gorgol Irrigation
Project, including re-financing of the outstanding balance of the 1974
Gorgol Engineering Credit (S-16-MAU, US$1.1 million). The Credit would be on
standard IDA terms. Additional financing for the proposed project is expected
to be provided by grants from the following sources: (i) the Fonds Europeen
de Developpement (FED) in the amount of US$16.3 million equivalent; (ii) Libya
in the amount of US$10 million equivalent; and (iii) the French Fonds d'Aide
et de Cooperation (FAC) in the amount of US$5.4 million equivalent. The
following institutions will provide loans to assist in project financing:
(i) Saudi Fund for Development, for US$10 million equivalent, with a term of
25 years including 5 years of grace and an interest rate of 2 percent per
annum; (ii) Islamic Development Bank for US$6 million equivalent, with a term
of 25 years including 5 years of grace with 2 percent commission; (c) the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), for US$10 million
equivalent, with a term of 50 years including 10 years of grace, and 1 percent
interest; (iv) Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW, Germany) for US$8 million
equivalent, on IDA terms; and (v) Abu Dhabi Fund in the amount of US$6.4
million equivalent, 25 years including 5 years of grace and an interest rate
of 3 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         A report entitled "Islamic Republic of Mauritania:  Recent Economic
Developments and External Capital Requirements" (2479a-MAU) dated June 4, 1979
has been distributed to the Executive Directors. Since then, a number of
economic missions have visited Mauritania to help monitor the rehabilitation
plan prepared with Bank assistance, and to provide further advice on its
implementation. Their findings are reflected in the following assessment of
the current situation and prospects of the economy. Country Data appear in
Annex I.
The Setting
3.         With a GNP per capita of US$270 in 1978, Mauritania is not classi-
fied among the "Least Developed Countries" but, in fact, faces the same basic
constraints to development. The standard of living of 80 percent of the
population is among the lowest in the world. Primary school enrollment does
not reach 20 percent. Most of the country is desert. Agriculture and live-
stock herding, which sustain 65 percent of the 1.5 million inhabitants, are
limited to the sub-saharatiand sahelian southern third of the country, parallel
with the Senegal River; but even there, rainfall is irregular or insufficient.



- 2 -
Some 800 miles away, in the northwest, economic activity centers around the
mining and fish processing complexes of Zouerate and Nouadhibou. The capital,
Nouakchott, lies in between, separated from the two economic centers by 400
miles of desert. As a result of this geographic situation, there is little
interaction between the modern and traditional sectors, but considerable
economic exchange among the agricultural southwestern part of Mauritania,
western part of Mali and northeastern part of Senegal, which together form a
more integrated economic unit. This further accentuates the isolation of
Nouakchott, which was built in the early 1960s in a region deprived of all
basic infrastructure.
4.        Mauritania's main political and economic links have traditionally
been with French-speaking African countries south of the Sahara. Recently,
however, it has established close relations with some of its North African
neighbors as well as with the Arab OPEC countries. In June 1972, Mauritania
asked for a revision of its 1961 Cooperation Treaty with France in the
economic, monetary, technical, cultural and military fields. A new agree-
ment was reached in February 1973, except in monetary affairs. As a result,
Mauritania left the West African Monetary Union and the Franc zone and,
with the financial support of Arab OPEC countries, established in June 1973
its own Central Bank and introduced its own currency, the Ouguiya (UM).
However, it still maintains good economic relations with France, and is a
member of the Economic Community of West Africa and of OMVS (the Senegal
River Development Authority).
5.        In 1976, after Spain relinquished its control over the Spanish
Sahara, the Polisario (Front for the Liberation of Spanish Sahara) waged
intensive guerilla operations against both MIauritania and Morocco which
had divided the administration of the territory between them. This war
activity severely strained Mauritania's already limited resources, both
financial and human, and in August 1979, it signed a peace accord with the
Polisario ending its involvement in the conflict.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        During the 1960s, the economy grew at about 10 percent per year
in real terms. This growth was due mainly to the development of iron ore
mining and to the rapid expansion of livestock that resulted from a success-
ful animal health campaign. Since then, however, growth has slowed down
to less than 2 percent mostly due to unfavorable developments beyond the
Government's control. Agricultural output, struck by a series of severe
droughts, stagnated in 1971, fell by more than 40 percent in 1972, and
again by 20 percent in 1973. Losses of livestock, mainly cattle, reached an
estimated 30 percent of the herd. All the gains in per capita income of the
rural population achieved in the 1960s were lost during the drought years.
Thousands of farmers and herdsmen who lost their source of livelihood in rural
areas have had to migrate to towns. Unable to find work in the modern sector,
many have turned to the informal sector for opportunities or have remained
unemployed. In 1974, economic activity was beginning to return to normal
when the doubling of the price of petroleum products, together with rises in
other import prices, put pressure on the balance of payments and set the
economy on an unprecedented inflationary path.



- 3 -
7.        Mauritania's capacity to respond to this new situation was limited,
particularly after 1975, when the stagnation of the world steel market
started to affect its main export (iron ore), while the need to build and
maintain a large national defense effort against the Polisario was absorbing
an increas4i.- portion of scarce resources. More than ever, financial
support of tile economy had to come from abroad. In this respect, Mauritania
has been fortunate to receive substantial foreign assistance in the past few
years. During the period 1973-77, about US$800 million was made available
to the country in response to its growing needs. Most of it came from Arab
OPEC countries and consisted of concessionary loans and grants for both
balance of payments/budget support and project aid, but a sizeable amount
also originated from private banks and foreign suppliers.
8.        The Government used these resources to nationalize the mining
sector in 1974/75, thus bringing under public control the country's major
economic and financial activities. It then started to play a more decisive
role in managing the economy by organizing and directing large investments.
Between 1973 and 1977, public investments more than doubled in real terms
and reached UM 10.4 billion (US$232 million), an amount equivalent to 50
percent of GDP in 1977. Most of these investments, however, were concen-
trated in non-directly productive sectors such as infrastructure. The few
large projects in the industrial sector were ill-conceived and financed on
very hard terms. The most important ones, a sugar refinery and an oil
refinery, were completed in 1978, but neither can at present be operated
profitably and both remain closed for the time being. As a result, the
burden of the external debt sharply increased while the capacity of the
economy to serve it did not.
9.        During 1977 the economy sustained further shocks.  The drought
struck again, and production of millet and sorghum, the main crops, fell from
an already low 36,000 tons in 1975/1976 to an estimated 21,000 tons. More
than 100,000 tons of rice and millet had to be imported (as compared with
an average of 70,000 tons in 1975/76) to meet domestic demand; only about
half of these imports was grant-financed. World market prices for iron ore
remained depressed, while rail evacuation from the mines to the port (650
km) became difficult because of Polisario attacks, in spite of a large
defense effort. As a result, iron ore export earnings dropped to US$127
million in 1977, as compared to US$154 million the year before. To add to
the difficulties, budget support from Arab countries was cut drastically.
Reflecting these unfavorable developments, the resource gap reached US$208
million (47 percent of GDP) and the balance of payments registered a deficit
of US$45 million, which was financed by a drawdown of official reserves. At
the end of 1977, for the first time since independence, net reserves of the
Central Bank were negative.
10.       The domestic financial situation could not be insulated from these
developments. With respect to the public sector payment arrears of the
Treasury accumulated. Despite the adoption of a revised austerity budget in
August 1977, the deficit, estimated at US$75 million in 1976, increased to
US$98 millicn in 1977, and the Government was forced to use large advances
from the Central Bank to cover it. In turn, the Central Bank, faced with a



- 4 -
large demand for credit from the Government, had to impose strict limitations
on credit to the private sector and to reduce commercial banks' access to
rediscounting facilities, bringing many small local enterprises to the brink
of bankruptcy.
11.       In mid-1978, because of the worsening economic and financial
situation, the Government, with the Bank's assistance, prepared a Rehabi-
litation Plan. This program has been followed by successive Governments, and
is consistent with measures recommended by the IMF. The Plan proposed the
consolidation or rescheduling of a substantial proportion of the Government's
external debt (about US$215 million) 1/ and emphasized the importance of
current budget assistance (about US$60-65 million a year until the early
1980s) without which the Mauritanian administration would be unable to
function; it has also imposed strict conditions on Government's future
borrowings and tight control of public expenditures, and recommended drastic
changes in public investment priorities.
12.       Since the second half of 1978, Mauritania has been able to receive
considerable assistance from the IMF and a wide variety of donors, and thus
avoided a serious financial crisis in 1978 and 1979. With 90 percent of the
budgetary deficit (UM 5.9 billion in 1978 and UM 5.2 billion in 1979) financed
by foreign aid, recourse to the Central Bank was kept at a level well below
the limit imposed by the Rehabilitation Plan. On the balance of payments
side, official foreign exchange reserves increased by UM 0.4 billion in 1978,
and again by UM 1.6 billion in 1979. The Governmment also kept current
expenditure approximately at the targeted level, and began efforts to renego-
tiate part of its external debt. Agreements in principle were reached bilat-
erally with creditors holding loans totalling about US$175 million for which
rescheduling was deemed necessary; a hard loan held by the Kuwait Foreign
Trading, Contracting and Investment Company (US$31 million) is still under
discussion.  Furthermore, although the Government has not been able to obtain
a consolidation loan to refinance debts held by private banks and shareholders
of the previously foreign-owned iron-mining company (MIFERMA, now SNIM) -
about US$50 million, Saudi Arabia granted US$20 million to help service this
debt in 1979.
1/   At the end of 1979, Mauritania's external public debt, including undis-
bursed, amounted to US$1,047 million; US$714 million was contracted by
the Government, US$59 million by the Central Bank of Mauritania, US$247
million by SNIM, the state-owned iron mining company, and US$27 million
by other public enterprises. Debt rescheduling recommended in the
Rehabilitation Plan only concerns the Government and the Central Bank
debt, as it is expected that SNIM would generate sufficient cash flow to
cover both existing commitments and new debts contracted for the Guelbs
project (Annex II). The US$215 million includes all Government debts
contracted on hard terms, and a few large bilateral loans for which grace
periods have expired.



- 5 -
13.       The Government knows that Mauritania's financial situation will
remain precarious until the early 1980s when deceleration of military expendi-
tures and the projected doubling of iron ore exports enable it to stabilize
its budgetary and balance of payments position. It therefore decided, in
line with the Rehabilitation Plan, to:
(a) postpone the start of operations of the oil and sugar refineries,
completed in 1978, until their profitability is established;
(b) limit the creation of new positions for civil servants, and not
to increase salaries in 1980;
(c) take necessary measures to improve tax collection and combat
tax fraud;
(d) strengthen the financial situation of public enterprises; mea-
sures envisaged include adjustments in tariffs and retail prices,
increases in equity capital, reinforcement of accounting and
management procedures, and liquidation of debt arrears; and
(e) observe strict financial standards in the choice of its invest-
ments; projects that cannot be financially and economically justi-
fied will be dropped.
To improve its financial situation, the Government has also requested the use
of the IMF's higher credit tranches, and is negotiating with the Fund a finan-
cial program aimed at reducing the budgetary deficit to manageable levels
in the next three years.
Strategy and Long-Term Prospects
14.       Financial stabilization is, and will remain for some time to
come, the Government's first priority. However, some attention has also
been given to policies that would tackle the deeper-seated structural
problems of the economy. In a substantial reversal of past policies, the
Government decided to sharply reduce its direct involvement in mining and
basic industry, and to embark on a new, liberal policy towards private
foreign investments. Thus, it intends to leave to foreign investors the
initiative and responsibility of operating the oil refinery and the copper
mine if they find them attractive. As a consequence, these projects should
not create a burden for the budget or the balance of payments.
15.       A new fishing policy has also been adopted which should in the
medium-term considerably increase Mauritania's share of the profits and
the contribution of this sector to the budget and to exports. The Govern-
ment has started to renegotiate all existing agreements with its foreign
partners, and to deliver fishing licenses only to companies that agree to
form a joint venture with the Government or with private Mauritanians and
are willing to invest in Nouadhibou. All the catches should be landed at



- 6 -
this port to be processed locally and exported. Measures to reinforce the
surveillance of the territorial waters and to reduce fraud are being taken.
16.       With regard to the public investment program, projects included
in the Rehabilitation Plan indicate a clear departure from past policies,
where the main emphasis was on industry and transport development. With the
exception of two large infrastructure projects (the Nouakchott port and the
Kiffa-Nema road), the execution of which has already started, most of the
proposed investments are concentrated in the productive sectors in order
to broaden the economic base and accelerate structural changes necessary
for future growth.  The highest priority is given to the continuation of
iron ore exploitation, as this activity is (and will remain in the foresee-
able future) the main support of the Mauritanian economy. Thus, the Guelbs
Iron Ore Project (Loan No. 1747-MAU, FY80) is the cornerstone of the Govern-
ment-s Rehabilitation Plan. It is the main, and probably, the only public
industrial project to be started over the next few years, while the tradi-
tional sectors (agriculture and livestock) and fisheries will be given
increasing priority.
17.       The most formidable obstacle to the above strategy is the scarcity
of well prepared projects. Mauritanian administrative services are inade-
quately staffed for project preparation and analysis. Many projects for the
rural sector selected by the Government need additional preparatory work to
make them acceptable. Equally critical has been the lack of project execu-
tion capability. Two IDA-financed technical assistance projects to the
Ministry of Planning and to SONADER, the agency in charge of rural develop-
ment, have begun to help the Government overcome some of these problems by
providing expertise needed for project preparation and execution (paras. 31
and 32).
18.       From 1978 to 1985, the overall growth of the economy could be more
than 4 percent per annum, with iron ore mining being the main motor of
expansion. During this period, development of the rural sector will remain
moderate because of the long gestation period of agricultural projects.
After 1985, this sector could achieve a growth of about 4 percent per annum
if all the irrigation projects included in the Rehabilitation Plan are
successfully implemented. The increase in real GDP between 1985 and 1990
should be around 3 percent per annum, and should result in a slow improvement
in the level of income of the Mauritanian population. These moderate rates
are substantially higher than those recorded in the recent past.  However,
recovery will be a long and difficult process, requiring careful management
of available resources since a substantial investment effort will be demanded
from the country around the mid-1980s in order to continue the Guelbs project
(Phase 2). Thus, savings outside the mining sector will not be able to
increase much without unacceptably reducing private consumption. During the
1978-85 period, most of the capital needed to achieve the Government's deve-
lopment program (about US$1.1 billion, including the Guelbs project) would
therefore have to come from abroad. Half of this is already assured. Indeed,
the Government has been very prudent to include in the Rehabilitation Plan
only projects that have already attracted the interest of external donors.



Prospects for mobilizing the remainder are relatively good, provided the
Government manages to improve the balance of payments and budget situation.
19.       Considering the country's general poverty, its strong reliance on
a single export product, and the long gestation period of many of its
important projects, Mauritania can only afford the borrowing it needs if the
foreign capital for projects other than the Guelbs is made available on
conditions similar to those indicated in the Rehabilitation Plan (2 percent
interest rate for 40 years, including 8 years of grace). In addition,
general budgetary constraints will severely limit Government's ability to
put up local funds for its investment program. Foreign donors should be
prepared, therefore, to finance a substantial proportion of the local costs
of the few high priority development projects that will go ahead in the next
few years; indeed, some donors have indicated their willingness to cover 100
percent of the investment costs of such projects in order to give Government
maximum breathing space during this difficult period, while permitting
development activity to continue. In the medium-term at least, financing of
some recurrent costs for projects of a developmental nature, which do not
earn revenues immediately, will also be unavoidable.
20.       Assuming that the Government reschedules the remainder of the debt
discussed in para. 12, the debt service ratio (including the debt service
cushion representing one semi-annual debt service payment to all Guelbs'
lenders) would increase from about 16 percent in 1978/79 to a peak of about
20 percent in 1982/83, when a large monetary deposit of about US$24 million
contracted in 1973 by the Central Bank falls due at the same time Guelbs'
debts start to mature. Thereafter, the debt service ratio would probably
stablilize at around 15-16 percent, a maximum level that Mauritania must try
not to exceed, even in the long-term.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
21.       The Bank Group has had 14 operations in Mauritania for a total of
US$194 million. Of these, two are Bank loans for mining operations: US$66
million for MIFERMA in 1960, and US$60 million to SNIM in 1979. Twelve
others are IDA credits totalling US$48 million. Of the IDA operations,
four are in the transport sector, four are in the rural sector (including
US$1.1 million in FY74 for the Gorgol irrigation engineering project, the
outstanding balance of which would be refinanced under the proposed Credit),
and the others for education, for technical assistance to the Ministry of
Planning, and for an urban and rural development fund. In 1968, IFC made a
loan to and an equity investment in SOMIMA, a copper mining company, which
totalled US$20 million; this IFC participation and the accompanying loan were
paid back when the Government nationalized SOMIMA in 1974. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of June
30, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.



- 8 -
22.       Project implementation has often been retarded by the low effi-
ciency of the administration and the existence of cumbersome procedures.
Moreover, large distances, lack of basic infrastructure, the small number of
contractors operating in the country, and the need to recruit a high propor-
tion of expatriates for works and to staff projects have, perhaps more than
elsewhere in Africa, contributed to increased project costs. These factors,
aggravated by the exceptional situation prevailing in Mauritania during the
1970s, high inflation, and unfavorable exchange rates, have led to cost
overruns on many projects. In addition, the country's difficult financial
situation has forced the Government to drastically curtail expenditures,
including the provision of local funds for its ongoing development program.
This called for a reduction in the scope of some of these projects. For
example, during execution of the Third Highway Project (Credit No. 519
MAU), IDA and the Kuwait Fund, the co-financier, agreed to scale down the
project to enable 100 percent coverage of the remaining foreign and local
costs.
23.       The Mauritanian authorities are acutely aware of the above-men-
tioned difficulties encountered in project execution, some of which, related
to geography or to the early stage of the country's development, will persist
for many years to come. Nevertheless, IDA's two technical assistance projects
to the Ministry of Planning and to SONADER are important elements of the
Government's program to tackle the problem. By strengthening Government's
project preparation capacity and by providing for more systematic monitoring
of project execution, the IDA-financed technical assistance team to the
Ministry of Planning is helping Government to invest in projects better
adapted to the country's conditions, and on the other hand, to introduce
administrative reforms and eliminate bottlenecks to better project execution.
Similarly, the technical assistance provided to SONADER, recently extended by
one year through a US$1.5 million EEC Special Action Fund supplementary
credit, is developing an agency capable of identifying, preparing, supervising
construction of, and managing irrigation schemes (paras. 31 and 32). The
proposed Gorgol project would be executed by SONADER, and it is expected
that the major problems faced by past projects due to weak management and
inexperience would be limited.
24.       In 1970-72, the Bank Group was the third largest donor (providing
about 18 percent of Mauritania's external capital assistance) behind France
(21 percent) and the European Economic Community (19 percent). With the
rapid growth in external financial assistance extended to Mauritania, the
Bank Group's share decreased to about 6 percent in 1977. Bank Group strategy
now emphasizes: (a) dialogue with the Government on financial and economic
matters in cooperation with the IMF and other financial institutions; (b)
technical assistance to improve economic management and to increase absorp-
tive capacity; and (c) intervention on a few high-priority development proj-
ects to increase production or to reduce the cost of carrying out economic
activities in the country, and enabling the mobilization and coordination of
larger amounts of external aid from traditional donors and Arab OPEC coun-
tries, as was done in the proposed project. Thus the Bank Group is planning



- 9 -
to prepare a follow-up technical assistance project to the Ministry of Plan-
ning, and a separate technical assistance project to the Petroleum Division of
the Ministry of Industry. Further Bank Group involvement is envisaged in
education, transport, and in the livestock sector.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Situation and Prospects
25.       Three-quarters of Mauritania lie in the Sahara zone with less
than 100 mm of annual rainfall. The rest is in the Sahel with a maximum
precipitation of only 500 mm. Some 65 percent of the rural population is
involved in nomadic herding. Sedentary agriculture is limited to a relatively
narrow strip along the Senegal River, a small area (Guidimaka) in the south
where precipitation allows rainfed cropping, some oases in the north, and a
few regions where shallow lakes make flood recession cropping possible. From
these limited resources, the rural sector provides the livelihood for about
80 percent of the population and contributes about 30 percent to GDP.
26.       Insufficient and erratic rainfall has been the major barrier to
growth of the sector, aggravated in the past decade by the recurrence of
serious droughts. Whereas at present there are about 1.4 million cattle and
5-6 million sheep and goats, these represent about 70 percent of the herds
existing before the 1973/74 drought. Along the Senegal River and downstream
of the Gorgol River, farmers grow rainfed millet, flood-recession sorghum, and
some vegetables. Because of traditional cultivation techniques and irregular
flooding and rainfall, yields are low. Rice is grown in irrigated perimeters
in the Senegal Valley. In normal years, production of sorghum and millet is
60,000 tons and irrigated rice is 6,000 tons, satisfying respectively 60
percent and 10 percent of the total demand. However, in drought years such
as 1973/74 and 1977/78, rainfed agricultural production was reduced by more
than 70 percent. Each successive drought prevented the full recovery from the
previous one. Under these conditions, prospects for further development of
rainfed agriculture are almost nonexistent. But worse, farmers are not
willing to take the risks inherent in the acquisition of agricultural inputs
because expected yield increases are very modest, and the chances are high that
crops may be wiped out in case of drought. As long as these risks exist, the
slight improvements that the dissemination of better rainfed cultivation
techniques promises are hardly enough to overcome farmer's reluctance to
change.
Irrigation
27.       Irrigation appears to be the only way to free agricultural and
livestock production from the devastation of dry and changing weather, reduce
the shortage of food, and provide productive employment to Mauritania-s rural
population, one of the poorest in the world. Still, in the 16 years since the



- 10 -
beginning of irrigation development, less than 1,800 ha have been irrigated
out of a potential estimated at 140,000 ha in the Senegal and Gorgol valleys.
Because flood levels of the Senegal River fluctuate, low-cost irrigation by
controlled flooding is impractical, and in any case few sites are suitable
for this type of irrigation on the Mauritanian side of the Senegal River.
Moreover, within 200 km of the sea, salt water backs up during the dry season
making the river water unusable for irrigation. So far, irrigation develop-
ment has consisted of the M-Pourie Scheme (1,000 ha), the Kaedi Scheme
(140 ha), and a series of small pump-irrigated perimeters on the Senegal
River (650 ha), mostly single-cropped, and financed over the years by a
multiplicity of bilateral and multilateral agencies, Another 1,200 ha of
small irrigation schemes financed by IDA (Urban and Rural Development Fund
Project), CCCE and FED will be developed in the coming three years. Because
of poor topographic and soil conditions on the Mauritanian side of the
Senegal River, this appears to be the limit for the development of small
irrigation schemes, whose impact on reducing the country-s food deficit
remains modest. As for medium-scale irrigation schemes, there is a project
at Boghe (950 ha) now being executed. The two other possibilities are: (a)
the proposed project prepared with substantial assistance from IDA; and
(b) projects to be prepared under the program of the Senegal River Development
Authority (OMVS), in which the Government has been actively participating.
While OMVS is advanced in planning the construction of two dams (Diama and
Manantali), preparation of irrigation projects in the valley dependent on
these dams is still at a preliminary stage. For the next 10-15 years, there-
fore, the pace of new irrigation development will probably not exceed 1,000-
1,200 ha a year, including works to be carried out under the Gorgol project.
28.       Irrigation would bring to agriculture the benefits of a techno-
logy adapted to Mauritania's conditions. However, the "pioneer" projects
have or are expected to have a low economic rate of return: that of Boghe is
7 percent, Gorgol is 7.4 percent, and those of the OMVS projects, even taking
the cost of the dam as sunk, are not expected to be much higher. For several
years to come, the irrigation sector will suffer from: (a) lack of infra-
structure; (b) the long gestation period required to settle farmers; (c) the
high management and training costs necessary to build up the project authority
and to familiarize farmers and extension workers with new cultivation tech-
niques; and (d) the high cost of civil works in Mauritania. In addition to
the high cost of importing managerial and technical skills and transporting
equipment and materials over long distances and poor roads, contractors
operating in Mauritania have to overequip themselves to compensate for low
equipment performance ratios (due to climatic conditions and the poor training
of Mauritanian labor), and to prevent work stoppage that could result from
shortage of equipment and spare parts, the procurement of which takes time and
poses considerable difficulties. This situation is aggravated by lack of
competition due to the limited number of contractors. These factors could
only be eliminated through actual implementation of carefully conceived
projects such as the proposed Gorgol project which, by developing experience,
managerial skill and technical know-how, would contribute to a gradual decrease
in unit costs and improvement in the productivity of future irrigation projects.



- 11 -
Government Policies and Institutions
29.       In the mid-1970s, the Government shifted the emphasis of its poli-
cies from industry (with the exception of the Guelbs project) and transport
development towards the rural sector. After successive droughts, it became
clear that other sectors of the economy were unable to absorb the thousands
of farmers and herders fleeing the devastated rural areas and forming a
large pool of unemployed in the cities. Both public administration and
mining were saturated. Large-scale industrial projects were found to be
unfeasible, and the development of medium- and small-scale enterprises dif-
ficult. The average investment per job created by the latter was around
US$13,000, whereas in the rural sector, even an expensive project like
Gorgol would entail an investment cost per job of around US$4,000 in 1980
prices. MIoreover, given Mauritania's lack of experience, the fisheries
sector would take another ten years before it could absorb a substantial
portion of the unemployed. Hence, the Government has given top priority to
the development of the agricultural sector around regionally balanced poles of
development to halt the rural exodus and to create productive activities from
renewable resources. Thus its 1980 rural sector investment is expected to
reach UM 1.3 billion (US$29 million), double that of 1979, and about four
times larger than the average volume of rural sector investment for 1976-78.
30.       Over the years, however, the authorities have been faced with a
serious problem in identifying viable projects, basically because of lack of
opportunities in agriculture, but also because of weak project identification
and preparation capacity. The Government responded to this challenge by
creating a new rural development institution, the Societe Nationale pour le
Developpement Rural (SONADER).
SONADER
31.       In 1975, the Ministry of Rural Development, responsible for the
rural sector and in particular for the development of water resources, created
SONADER, appointing an experienced former Director of Agriculture as Director-
General. A public institution with substantial administrative and financial
autonomy, SONADER plans, designs, executes and operates rural development and
irrigation projects. In the future, SONADER would try to finance its activi-
ties from its own revenue, but at present, it receives loans and grants mostly
from external donors, either directly or through the Government. The Govern-
ment's contribution to SONADER's total capital of US$990,000 is US$600,000.
In 1977, it also transferred to SONADER US$667,000, and in 1978 US$456,000 as
counterpart funds for projects financed by external aid but under SONADER's
responsibility. External grants and loans passed on to SONADER amount to
US$8.5 million during the 1976-1980 period, including IDA financing of about
US$6.6 million (under the SONADER technical assistance project--694-MAU, and
the Urban and Rural Development Project--Credit 888-MAU). Its activities are
controlled by a Board of Directors, and its present management is very good.
The total number of staff is 250, of whom 218 are Mauritanians and 32 expa-
triates. The IDA-financed Technical Assistance Project (recently



- 12 -
supplemented by an EEC Special Action Fund Credit) provides SONADER with seven
expatriates for four years and a training expert for one year. The rest of
the expatriate experts are being financed by the Federal Republic of Germany,
FAC, FED and other sources.
32.       Largely due to the successful implementation of the above project,
SONADER has become a competent institution. Since 1976, projects under its
management increased from three to 21, while its budget grew from US$2.3
million to US$16.3 million. SONADER is responsible for supervising or
carrying out studies for most rural development and irrigation projects, and
for supervising and constructing small earthen dams in the east. It is
managing the small perimeters in the Senegal Valley financed by FAC, FED,
CCCE and IDA, as well as the FED-financed Kaedi irrigation project (para.
27). It is also supervising construction of the medium-scale Boghe irriga-
tion project, and will oversee the proposed Gorgol project. It has moreover
procured US$10 million in earthmoving equipment financed by Saudi Arabia to
start force account works.
Bank Group Strategy
33.       The Bank Group, like other financial institutions, has had diffi-
culty in finding sizeable agricultural investments with a satisfactory rate
of return. Other than responding to urgent needs--i.e., through participation
in a Drought Relief Project--the Bank Group initially intervened where imme-
diate possibilities existed. Thus, the first operation in the rural sector
supported a Livestock Project (FY72). Six other projects had at least one
component benefiting the rural sector. Three projects in road construction
and maintenance have contributed to opening up the southern agricultural
area; the Education Project is financing a feasibility study for a farmer
training center; an agricultural economist in the IDA-financed planning team
is assisting the Ministry of Economy and Finance in rationalizing investment
in the sector; and in the Urban and Rural Development Fund Project, IDA is
financing the construction of 600 ha of small irrigation schemes in the
Senegal Valley, and setting up a pilot system of agricultural credit.
34.       In crop production, however, it was recognized that any signifi-
cant break-through towards meeting the sector s and people's needs would
have to come from irrigation where possibilities had been identified.
Successful implementation of such a strategy requires: (a) an improved
project preparation and execution capability in the rural sector; and (b)
detailed engineering studies. The Gorgol Engineering Project 1/ (FY74) and
the SONADER Technical Assistance Project (FY80) have served these needs, the
former having served to prepare and optimize the proposed project, and the
latter being designed to strengthen organization and staff of SONADER and to
complete the engineering studies.
1/   Completion and Project Performance Audit Reports are being prepared.



- 13 -
35.       Parallel attempts to develop rainfed agriculture on a meaningful
scale have failed. After three years of preparation, the Southeast Rural
Development Project had to be abandoned, as even the low projections of
increase in output appeared unrealistic given the poor ecological conditions
of the area. Further investment is envisaged in the livestock sector,
but given the limited growth potential and the ecological fragility of the
range land, preparation of the project will require another year of studies.
The Livestock Department will be strengthened with FED's assistance.
36.       Faced with this lack of workable alternatives, both the Government
and the Bank Group concentrated their efforts in the rural sector on preparation
of the Gorgol project, collaborating closely on improving the design of the
project to optimize the investment. This decision has been guided by the more
remote prospects for developing irrigation schemes along the Senegal River,
the fact that such schemes should not be expected to show higher returns on
investments, and considerations of equity for the underprivileged southeastern
area where the project would be located.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       Background.  The proposed project was identified in 1971, and
preliminary studies were financed by the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP). In 1973, the US$1.1 million Gorgol Engineering Credit financed
preparation of the final design of two dams (El Bir and Foum el Gleita), and
the first phase (3,800 ha) of an irrigation program in the downstream part of
the Gorgol valley. However, when this work was completed in April 1975, the
project was not appraised because of its high cost. During 1976, discussions
between the Government, FAO and the Bank Group led to the identification of a
revised project, to be limited to the construction of only one dam (Foum el
Gleita) and the development of 3,620 ha in the upper Gorgol valley. The
additional engineering and feasibility studies needed to redesign the project
were financed under the SONADER Technical Assistance Credit and completed in
April 1979, resulting in a more economical project. After appraisal in
October 1978, bids were invited in the fall of 1979; bids were rejected because
they were out of line with the cost estimate, but subsequent negotiations with
the lowest evaluated bidder resulted in a more satisfactory offer. Five co-
lenders' meetings took place between September 1978 and June 1980, as the Bank
Group and the Government actively sought co-financing from a wide range of
donors who have made substantial commitments to the project.  Pre-negotiations
and formal negotiations for the proposed Credit were held in July 1980 in
Washington with Government delegations headed respectively by H.E. lMr. Mohamed
Ould Amar, the 2Iinister of Rural Development and by H.E. Mr. Sidi Bouna,
Anbassador of Ilauritania to the United States.  Representatives of IFAD
negotiated its Loan Agreement at the same time.  The Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 2517a-MIAU) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.



- 14 -
Project Objectives
38.       The Gorgol project would be the first sizeable irrigation project
in Mauritania. Its main objectives are to: (a) increase national cereal
production by 26,800 tons, representing 50 percent of present average cereal
imports; (b) create jobs in the southern region of the country which lacks
other employment opportunities; (c) introduce improved technologies and
provide some 28,000 people with a three-fold increase in the current US$50 per
capita income derived from agriculture; and (d) further strengthen SONADER and
train professional staff and farmers, thus enhancing the country's capacity
for future development of the Gorgol and Senegal River valleys. Moreover,
Mauritania expects that creating a large oasis of irrigated land in the desert
would have the same multiplier effect as isolated mining developments have had
in other parts of the country. At Akjoujt, for instance, the copper mine
employed only 600 people, but fostered a broad array of economic activities (in
both the formal and the informal sector) providing livelihood for a city of
18,000 inhabitants. At Zouerate, the iron mining town in the northern desert,
the mine directly employs around 2,170 Mauritanians, while indirectly creating
activities and livelihood for 40,000 to 50,000 people. As a result of the
extreme scarcity of job opportunities, development which generates even modest
cash incomes has a strong power to attract poor farmers and nomads who other-
wise would continue to live at subsistence level.
Project Description
39.       The proposed project would develop a gross land area of 4,200
ha and a net irrigated area of 3,620 ha, allowing rice cultivation in the
wet season, followed by rice-sorghum and/or maize cultivation in the dry
season; vegetables would also be grown to meet family needs. The prin-
cipal features of the project are:
(a) Dam and Conveyance Works
Construction of the Foum el Gleita dam, outlet works, a main con-
veyance canal and canal bridge to cross the Gorgol River.
(b) Gorgol Development Perimeter
(i) Construction of primary, secondary and tertiary irrigation and
drainage networks, on-farm development works including land
levelling, and access roads serving 4,200 ha;
(ii) construction of houses, offices, storehouses, a rice mill,
social infrastructure (schools and health centers) and related
facilities close to the perimeter; and
(iii) provision of agricultural equipment and vehicles.



- 15 -
(c) Agricultural Development
Provision of inputs on credit (seeds, pesticides, fertilizers),
soil preparation, plowing and threshing services; and extension and
marketing services.
(d) Technical Assistance
Provision of 46 man-years of technical assistance, together with
equipment and vehicles for execution and initial operation
of the project.
Cost Estimate
40.        Total project cost, including physical and price contingencies
is estimated at US$93.2 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component
estimated at US$67.0 million or 72 percent of the total. Project cost is
given net of taxes, as Government has agreed to exempt the project from all
import duties and other identifiable taxes. The base cost includes firm
prices of all major investments, estimated investment cost of equipment, minor
construction and operating costs during the six years of project implementa-
tion, and is expressed in January 1980 prices. The average cost of consult-
ants and technical assistance services is estimated at US$8,300 per man-month.
Physical and price contingencies account for US$27.6 million or 42 percent of
total base cost. Procurement for the dam component is tied, and therefore
total project cost is about US$3 million higher than it would be otherwise.
Financing Plan
41.        It is proposed that the Association make available to Government a
Credit of SDR 11.4 million (US$15 million) equivalent, including US$0.5
million for refinancing the outstanding amount of the Gorgol Engineering
Credit S-16 (Section 3.02 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Additional financing for the project is expected to be provided by loans
from: the Saudi Fund, for US$10 million equivalent (25 years including 5
years of grace, with interest at 2 percent); Islamic Development Bank, for
US$6 million equivalent (25 years including 5 years of grace with 2 percent
commission); IFAD for US$10 million (50 years including 10 years of grace at
1 percent); German Government (KfW) for US$8 million equivalent on IDA terms;
and Abu Dhabi Fund for US$6.4 million equivalent (25 years including 5 years
of grace with interest at 3 percent). In addition the following grants would
be provided: US$10 million equivalent by Libya, US$16.3 million equivalent by
FED and US$5.4 million by FAC. Together, external aid agencies and govern-
ments would finance 100 percent of foreign costs and 77 percent of local
costs, which is justified on country grounds (para. 19). The Government's
contribution would be limited to US$3.2 million which accrue to the project
from sales of rice, and which would be utilized to cover part of the operating
expenses of the Gorgol Project Directorate (GPD). Farmers would be required
to participate in project financing for US$2.9 million (about 3 percent of
total project cost) during the implementation period through the payment of
water and agri_cultural charges in accordance with the cost recovery procedures
described in lara. 61 (Sections 4.01 (b) (ii) and 4.04 of draft Project
Agreement).



- 16 -
42.       The proposed IDA Credit would be made to the Government and passed
on to SONADER as a grant, since the direct project revenues would only be
sufficient to cover estimated operating and maintenance costs (para. 61). A
Project Agreement would be signed between IDA and SONADER.   Loans and grants
by other lenders would similarly be made to the Government and passed on to
SONADER as grants. It is envisaged that the IFAD loan will be administered by
IDA. Effectiveness of the agreements related to loans or grants which would
jointly with IDA finance irrigation works (i.e. Islamic Development Bank,
Libya, Saudi Fund, and IFAD), and signature of the agreements related to loans
or grants which would in parallel with IDA finance the other parts of the
project, would be conditions of Credit effectiveness. US$3.3 million out of
the FED contribution would help finance irrigation works and some technical
assistance to be carried out starting only in the fourth year of the project,
and would become available at that time (Section 7.01 (d) and (e) and Schedule
3 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
43.       The contract for construction of the Foum el Gleita Dam, which
would be financed jointly by FED and KfW, has been procured through FED
international bidding procedures. Roads, main irrigation and external drain-
age networks, as well as secondary irrigation and drainage networks have been
procured after competitive bidding in a manner acceptable to IDA. Contracts
for the execution of works are expected to be signed shortly. Land clearing,
tertiary canals and drains, and on-farm works would be carried out by SONADER
on force account. Miscellaneous equipment and farm inputs, as well as other
orders and contracts not exceeding US$50,000 per contract, would be procured
through local procedures acceptable to the Association. (Schedule 1 of draft
Project Agreement).
Disbursement
44.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit would be against import
documentation and certified statements of expenditures. For disbursements
made against certified statements of expenditures, detailed documentation
would be retained by SONADER and made available for inspection by supervision
missions. The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed against the follow-
ing items: irrigation works by contract, 32 percent of total cost; irrigation
works by force account, 42 percent of total expenditures (Schedule 1 of draft
Development Credit Agreement). It is expected that final disbursements would
follow estimated expenditures with a six-month lag, and thus be completed by
.1arch 31, 1987.
Revolving Funds
45.       In order to avoid delays in project execution resulting from
cumbersome administrative procedures and lack of local pre-financing capacity,
the co-lenders would utilize direct payment procedure when possible. M4ore-
over, two revolving funds would be set up under the project to cover all the
costs of force account works, farm supplies, and project operation. Thus, as
a condition of effectiveness, SONADER would open in BIIDC (Banque Ilauritanienne



- 17 -
pour le Developpement et le Commerce):  (a) a Special Account for force
account works; and (b) an Operating Account for farm supply and project
operating costs (Sections 3.02 (c) and 7.01 (b) and (c) of draft Development
Credit Agreement; Section 4.01 (a) of draft Project Agreement).
46.       Upon effectiveness of the Credit, IDA and IFAD would deposit in
the Special Account an initial amount of US$50,000 (Section 3.02 (d) of draft
Development Credit Agreement). This amount of pre-financing would be
increased as working capital needs increase. Thus, additional amounts not
exceeding US$700,000 would be periodically deposited in the Special Account by
IDA and IFAD at the request of the Gorgol Project Directorate (GPD) (Section
3.02 (e) of draft Development Credit Agreement). Such additional advances
would be made if satisfactory justification for such further pre-financing
is provided, based on estimates of the force account costs to be incurred
quarterly. In this way, the Special Account should cover the increasing
quarterly working capital requirements for force account works, estimated for
each year as follows:
(US $ '000)
1981           1982           1983            1984           1985           1986
50            350            650            700             750            720
The Special Account would be replenished by IDA and IFAD on receipt of satis-
factory evidence that expenditures paid out of the Special Account were
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and the IFAD loan.
Should, however, any disbursement out of the Special Account fail to meet this
condition, Government would deposit the corresponding amount into this account
(Section 3.02 (g) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
47.       Finally, Government has provided assurances that it would, within 90
days after the Closing Date of the Credit, submit documentation on project
expenditures not previously claimed for an amount equal to the total amount
deposited by the Association and IFAD to prefinance the Special Account.
If such documentation is not submitted or is not adequate to justify expendi-
tures, Government would refund the amount in question to the Association and
IFAD; any amount so repaid to the Association could be cancelled (Section
3.02 (i) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.       As for the Operating Account, Government would deposit an initial
amount of US$35,000 as a condition of effectiveness (Sections 4.02 (a)
and 7.01 (c) of draft Development Credit Agreement). Thereafter, Government
has agreed to annually deposit an additional amount in the Operating Account
(Section 4.02 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement), to cover the increas-
ing quarterly requirements estimated for each year as follows:
(US$'000)
1981           1982           1983           1984            1985           1986
35             60            160            470             660            970



- 18 -
Government has also provided assurances that: (a) all receipts from farmers
(water charges and repayments of seasonal credits) and revenues from sales
would be deposited in the Operating Account; and (b) any shortfall in repay-
ments from farmers would be made up by Government (Section 5.05 of draft
Development Credit Agreement, and Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of draft Project
Agreement).
49.       GPD would prepare, at least quarterly, a budget projection to be
approved by the Director-General of SONADER, on the basis of which it would be
allowed to make cash and other withdrawals from the two revolving funds. The
opinion of an independent auditor acceptable to the Association would be
furnished to the Association semi-annually on the withdrawals from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure and the cash transactions
of GPD (Section 4.03 (b) of draft Project Agreement). Withdrawal applications
relative to cash withdrawals would be accompanied by summary statements of the
cash transactions and balances of GPD. In addition, quarterly statements of
both the Special and Operating Accounts certified by BIIDC must be supplied to
the Association. These arrangements have been discussed and agreed with the
Government.
Implementation
50.        The project would be implemented by SONADER, through the GPD to be
created within SONADER specially for the project before effectiveness (Sec-
tions 2.01(b) of draft Project Agreement and Section 7.01 (a) of draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement), and to be made directly responsible to SONADER's
Director-General. The appointment of the Director of GPD would also be a
condition of effectiveness (Section 7.01 (a) of draft Development Credit
Agreement). Qualifications and experience of GPD's Director would have to
be satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.01 (b) (i) of draft Project
Agreement). Project construction would begin in November 1980, and imple-
mentation would take place over a period of six years; full production would
be reached in 1996.
The Gorgol Project Directorate (GPD)
51.       GPD would have five departments:  (a) production; (b) equipment
and supplies; (c) administration; (d) works; and (e) the rice mill. The
Directorate assisted by consultants would be responsible for preparation of
tender documents, procurement, recruitment of foreign experts, supervision
of contract works, and execution of works by force account. It would also
operate and maintain project facilities, equipment and the rice mill. GPD
would give assistance to farmers for soil preparation, threshing, extension
and marketing services, and would provide agriculture credit. It would also
establish and maintain a system of water charges (Section 4.04 of draft
Project Agreement). In addition, GPD would carry out collection of data for
monitoring the structural behavior of the dam, with the assistance of an
institution specialized in this work, and would periodically submit to co-
lenders reports interpreting these data (Section 3.01(c) of draft Project
Agreement).
Staffing and Training
52.       At the beginning of the project, 17 l4auritanian GPD staff would be
aided by three internationally recruited technical assistants. Consultant



- 19 -
services (113 man-months) would also be provided to supervise the construction
works on contract. The Mauritanian staff would gradually increase to about
160 by 1987, and subsequently decrease to 120 at full project development by
1996; the technical assistants would increase to nine (546 man-months in
total). Q>ua] ifications and experience of the foreign experts would be
satisfactory to the Association (Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement).
53.       Mauritanian professionals are being trained at SONADER's head-
quarters, in projects under implementation, and at the Kaedi Agronomic
School, for the extension and strengthening of which the Government recently
obtained US$10 million equivalent financing from the Saudi Government. The
IDA-financed Technical Assistance project team and a training consultant
financed by the Bank Group have recently evaluated the results of SONADER's
on-the-job training of Mauritanian professionals, which is progressing satis-
factorily. In addition, the supplementary EEC Special Action Credit is
providing scholarships abroad and a training expert to develop a formal
training program for expanding SONADER's staff. The majority of new
Mtauritanian technicians would be given on-the-job training by technical
assistance provided to GPD, with particular emphasis on dam operation,
maintenance of works, irrigation practices, cultivation techniques, and
appLication of inputs. The project would also provide extension services to
farmers by financing staff engineers/agronomists, foremen (1 per 900 ha),
monitors (1 per 300 ha), and extension workers (1 per 60 ha). Finally, the
IDA-financed Education Project (Credit 459 MIAU) and a separate loan from
IFAD will provide extension officers and farmers with training for the Gorgol
project using the Kaedi irrigation scheme. The Government would supply the
staff necessary for schools and public health centers provided by the project
(Section 5.02 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Infrastructure Construction and Agricultural Development-
54.       Construction of the dam and main structures (canals, drains,
bridges and roads) would be carried out in the first two years, at the end
of which time the reservoir would be filled. SONADER would operate the
facilities in accordance with the recommendations of the health study financed
under the Gorgol Engineering Credit, in order to prevent propagation of
water-borne diseases (Section 3.03 of draft Project Agreement). The Government
has provided assurances that the MI'bout-Kiffa or an alternative access road to
the project area would be maintained at all-weather conditions. (Section 5.01
of draft Development Credit Agreement). Financing has already been obtained
from FED to carry out a feasibility study of this road. The production on the
first 400 ha of farmland would start in the dry season of the third year, and
subsequently, it is estimated that 800 ha would be developed annually. Land
clearing, soil preparation, on-farm works, and settlement would progress as
SONADER's capacity for carrying out force account works increases and farmer
recruitment takes place.
Farmer Settlement
55.       The Mlinistry of Rural Development has conducted a promotional
campaign in the region to encourage settlement of farmers in the project
area, and an IDA-financed consultant study at appraisal showed that many among



- 20 -
the 100,000 people living in the region within a radius of about 50 km are
counting on settling in the area once the project would start. SONADER in
cooperation with local authorities would select the 4,640 farm families
required by the project. Priority would be given to resettling the 600
families to be displaced by the dam works. The remaining families would be
selected according to previous farming experience, and to traditional family
or clan rights in the area; among these, priority would be given to those with
the lowest income. The project would provide for resettlement of the popula-
tion. SONADER would assist farmers to transport their households and con-
struct their houses in the 15 new villages.
56.       Given the settlers' limited experience with irrigation, GPD would
prepare the first crop in accordance with an optimal implementation schedule.
However, the area under direct cultivation by GPD in any year would not exceed
640 ha. The settlers (580 per season) would arrive at the end of the cropping
season and would receive paddy for consumption as payments for their labor in
harvesting. Subsequently, GPD would allocate the cultivated land to these
settlers. During the following campaigns, GPD would provide farmers with:
(a) soil preparation, threshing, extension and marketing services; (b) train-
ing in irrigation techniques; and (c) farm inputs on credit. Farmers would
sign individual contracts with SONADER defining their rights and duties under
the project. These types of contracts are being used successfully in other
irrigation schemes managed by SONADER.
Market Prospects
57.       Part of the project's grain production would be for family consump-
tion and for meeting seed requirements. The remaining paddy would be sold
to GPD for processing, and at that stage agricultural credit would be reim-
bursed. Sorghum and maize would be sold to OMC, the government agency
for marketing and distribution of grain. GPD's processed rice would also be
sold to OMC. In 1978/79, following recommendations made by the IDA appraisal
mission, the Government set up a committee to study national price policies,
and in 1979/80 the official price of paddy was fixed at UM 10/kg. The import
price of broken rice is approximately UM 20/kg, and imported rice is sold with
subsidies ranging between 20 percent and 35 percent, that is, about UM 14/kg
in Nouakchott and UM 16/kg in distant regional centers. These prices for rice
are practised by SONIMEX (the Government Import-Export Agency) which compen-
sates itself for losses incurred from sales of subsidized imported rice
through sales of imported sugar at much higher than world market prices. At
present, the subsidy of consumer price of rice is not creating a burden on the
public finance. However, with the projected increase in local rice production
as a consequence of the project, Government would be unable to finance the
required subsidies. The producer price of paddy should be maintained at a
level giving sufficient incentive to farmers, and ensuring competitiveness
with the producer price in Senegal. The price of rice will be fixed in line
with the economic (import substitution) price of rice, and should permit GPD
to be competitive in the Gorgol area and the neighboring provinces; Nouakchott
and the provinces near the port would continue to be served by imports.
Government has provided assurances that prices for paddy and rice would be



- 21 -
set at a level appropriate to ensure sufficient incentives to producers, and
that existing consumer price subsidies would be progressively removed over
the next three years (Section 5.03 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Agriculture Credit
58.       GPD would supply farmers with credit covering those agricultural
services extended by GPD, inputs and small farm equipment. Since no agricul-
tural credit institution exists in Mauritania, technical assistance for
SONADER to set up and operate a credit unit has been financed under the
on-going IDA Credit 888 MAU. On the basis of this experience, SONADER would
set up a similar unit in GPD. The short-term credit (seasonal) would be
recovered at harvest with an annual interest of 12 percent by automatically
deducting interest and principal from produce sales proceeds. Although the
recent rate of domestic inflation was about 15 percent, the rate of interest
agreed upon is a significant increase over the previously practiced rate of
8.5 percent (Credit 888-MAU); the rate of interest also compares favorably
with that in neighboring countries with similar inflation rates. Contracts
signed between SONADER and the farmer would require the prompt repayment of
seasonal credit, and would specify sanctions to be applied in case of default.
SONADER would maintain this credit system and policy, and would from time to
time review with the Association any necessary modification required in view
of the experience acquired under the project (Section 2.07 of draft Project
Agreement). The Government has agreed to prepare and implement, before
project completion, a national agricultural credit policy taking into account
project experience (Section 5.04 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Accounts and Audits
59.       SONADER's accounting system has been improved in the context of
the IDA Technical Assistance Project, and is adequate for the present range of
its activities. Its accounts are subject to audit by independent auditors at
the end of each fiscal year. The Government has provided assurances that: (a)
separate project accounts would be kept by GPD; (b) independent auditors
satisfactory to the Association would be employed by SONADER to audit the
project accounts at the end of each fiscal year; (c) these audited accounts,
together with the auditor's report, would be sent to the Association within
six months after the close of each fiscal year; and (d) the auditors' opinion
on the financial situation of the project including the disbursement applica-
tions made on the basis of certified statements of expenditures and cash
management would be submitted to the Association every six months (Sections
4.02 and 4.03 of draft Project Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
60.       Under the guidance of SONADER's evaluation unit, GPD would submit
quarterly reports to the Association which would include data on project
expenditures and on construction of all facilities under various project
components. Information related to irrigation development and operation and



- 22 -
maintenance costs would be submitted annually when facilities become opera-
tional. SONADER has provided assurances that, after completion of the pro-
posed project and not later than six months after the Closing Date, it
would submit to the Association a Project Completion Report (Section 2.05 (c)
of draft Project Agreement).
Cost Recovery
61.       At full development in 1996, the project would generate revenues of
US$7.39 million equivalent, of which US$6.43 million correspond to agricultural
charges and revenues from sales, and US$0.96 million to water charges. The
agricultural charges include repayment of services provided on short-term
credit, and consist of agricultural inputs, plowing and threshing. The water
charges would amount to US$267 ha/year, and would cover: (i) maintenance
costs of the works (irrigation and drainage works, buildings and social
infrastructure); (ii) salaries and wages; and (iii) 10 percent of the other
operating charges of GPD. (The remaining GPD operating costs would be covered
by the margin on sales of rice). Recovery of capital costs amounting to
US$62.71 million is not contemplated. Additional revenues could only be
generated by increases in water charges, but such increases are not recom-
mended at this stage since farmers' incomes are low--even with the project--
and their economic incentive could be impaired.
Farm Incomes
62.       Annual family incomes would rise from approximately US$200 in
traditional rainfed cultivation to US$525-625 in 0.5 ha farms for small
families, and to US$950-1,150 for larger families. Returns per man-day would
rise less (from US$2.80 to US$4.70-5.50) because the switch to irrigation
agriculture would imply a considerable lengthening of the period of gainful
employment. Even with the project, however, per capita incomes (on average
US$130-140) would remain below the poverty threshold.
Project Benefits
63.       At full development in 1996, the project would produce about
26,800 tons of cereal (paddy, sorghum and maize) annually, and about 2,400
tons of vegetables. The main crop would be paddy, 21,900 tons/year, of which
about 15,600 tons would be milled and marketed (50 percent of present imports).
The number of direct beneficiaries would be about 4,640 farm families (28,000
people), of whom 600 already live in the project area. The remaining 4,000
families would come from the immediate surroundings. Additional quantifiable
benefits would accrue from flood recession cropping around the Foum el Gleita
storage lake, poultry raising for home consumption, fishing in the storage
lake, and the use of milling by-products and crop residues for livestock
feed.
64.       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is estimated at
7.4 percent. Although the dam has the potential for irrigating about 7,000
ha, returns have been quantified for only the first 3,600 ha to be irrigated,
and to this extent the ERR may be understated. Nor have benefits resulting



- 23 -
from the improved livestock environment and from fishing activities due to
creation of the lake been quantified. Secondary benefits are also expected to
accrue from the stimulus provided by this project to the economy of the area.
65.       Because of the relative poverty of the beneficiaries, the social
rate of retuin (SRR) is expected to be substantially higher than the ERR. The
present per capita income from agricultural activities in the Gorgol area is
US$50, or 25 percent of the Mauritanian average; with the project, it is
expected to rise to 50 percent of the national average. However, it has not
yet been possible, due to lack of data, to estimate the social parameters
necessary for calculating the SRR.
66.       Ten years of close collaboration with the Mauritanian Government
on improving project design have resulted in the best available solution
(paras. 36 and 37). As discussed earlier (paras. 27, 30, 34, 35 and 36),
there are no investments with superior economic prospects over the medium-term
in either agriculture or other sectors. The low opportunity cost of capital
in Mauritania is largely due to constraints associated with the country's
extreme under-development, constraints which the project would help to ease.
Risks
67.       The principal project risks are those associated with the introduc-
tion of modern technology into a traditional environment. Government, the
Association, and other donors have taken a number of measures to reduce the
risks as follows:
(a) The risk associated with the transformation of people's semi-
nomadic lifestyle and agricultural practices (necessary in the very
erratic rainfall conditions) into intensive double-cropping irriga-
tion agriculture, would be met by the following measures:
(i)  a motivation campaign has been carried out by Government
(through SONADER) in the wider project area over the last
two years, and would be continued;
(ii) farmers would be selected according to their previous
farming experience;
(iii) extension staff would be trained in existing small
projects and with scholarships abroad, and through an
IFAD-financed project which would first train extension
agents in the Kaedi scheme, and then train farmers at
Gorgol with assistance from newly-trained extension agents;
(iv) smallholdings (3/4 ha per family on average) well within
a family's farming capacity would be allocated to the
settlers; and
(v)  paddy prices would be maintained at levels sufficient to
provide incentive to farmers.



- 24 -
(b) The risk of cost overruns has been minimized by obtaining firm bids
for all major works (dam, main and secondary canals) which account
for 76 percent of total project costs.
(c) The risk of insufficient capacity to execute force-account works
(on-farm development and tertiary canals) has been reduced through
the training of Mauritanian staff on the Boghe irrigation scheme,
using equipment financed by the Saudi Fund, and strengthening of
SONADER supervisory competence through technical assistance;
moreover, a moderate pace of on-farm development has been foreseen,
which is compatible with the project agency's capacity.
Nonetheless, the time required to transform social patterns and work habits
cannot be assessed accurately. The consequences of farmer's performance
falling below target can be expressed through: (a) lower yields; (b) a lower
rate of double-cropping; and (c) a slower rate of overall development. The
sensitivity of the project to these risks is summarized below:
Return (%)
Base Estimate                            7.4
Project Delays:
-    Benefits delayed 1 year             6.9
-    Benefits delayed 3 years            5.0
Reduced Final Yields:
-    Yields 90% of base estimate         6.6
Reduced Final Cropping Intensity:
-    Cropping Intensity 90% 1/ of
base estimate                       6.6
-    Cropping Intensity 80% 1/ of
base estimate                       5.4
Thus the project would not be too sensitive to performance shortfalls within a
reasonable range of expectations.
1/   Equivalent to dry season cropping at 80% and 50% respectively of target
levels.



- 25 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Mauritania and the Association, the draft Project Agreem._t between
the Association and Societe Nationale pour le Developpement Rural (SONADER),
and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1
(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
69.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be: (a) the estab-
lishment of GPD and appointment of its director; (b) opening of a Special
Account and an Operating Account by SONADER, and deposit of US$35,000 equi-
valent in the Operating Account by the Government; and (c) cross-effectiveness
with loans and grants on a joint financing basis with IDA, and signature of
agreements related to loans and grants financing other project elements in
parallel with the proposed IDA Credit.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
August 21, 1980



- 26-                                   ANNEX I
ISAY  2* amI
NANI2IAIA                      RzlUUm:2W1(wr1T3AO0u
ACXWzSAUL        394.5                                   On macwi              UrN                      mamazKUM"
19t0"       1070 atnmnfi   AMA 31   W 0                      AnIUCA mimi w    umUA
UP  U    ITh MS55)                    ..       190.0     210.0                  120.9                   720. 2
.
alffia l-loP COAL IqUAL)               i5.0        144.0     283.0            _       0.6 -9.4
an91LATIW MWVITAL SAuTISTICS
M1       ,. kID-TAt MM=KS)            1.6          1.2       1.5
MuM  nPUAIZOU p Xcm   OF eOML)  3.4               12.5      23.0                   17.3                    28.9
PPONLTICI MOJECTION
fti.AII U 1xe  00 (NXLLIOn)                                3.0
SUIUOMSI  tOstATIW  (NaLLzWS)                              7.0
TEE U*AWKA11 PIOSLAXIN  IS IZ&                          2106
IOm.ATWCU DENITY
pU 54. z.                           1.0          1.3       1.3                  27.4                     G1.7
s . *. AmIcULUWAL LUD               3.0          3.2       3.8         t         2.0                    126.0
NPU&AM UM  STRISUIU 0MCT)
044 us.                            43.0         41.5      45.5                  44.9                     45.5
L5S-4 1U.                           $3.6        53.1       53.0                  52.2                     51.6
65,U.   AUDAI                        3.2          3.1       2.7                   1.5       -              2.5
PONLAtuno UT1 AT (MaCUT
O1L'                                2.2          2.5       2.7                    1.7                     2.7
£201  ..  15.3       10.5                   0.5                     4.9
aCJU 520 DATE (ME TOSAs)             51.0         30.0      30.0                  47.4                     40.5
GI=  mA  RAI& (FME tPSAi)            27.0         24.0      2u.0                   L.O                     10.4
mIS 1       IODUCOT3I   AT             ..          2.9       3.4                   3.2                      3.2
FAME. PAiSING
AGCENtORS. ANNUL (TUUS M)            ..           ..
LS3   (lPICEL  of     1.. ..                                                 ..
1000 AD NUITION
SYDEX OF POOD PILO0UTE
PER CAITA (1969-71-100)           107.0        102.0      72.0                  91.8                     94.0
PSI CAPITA SUPPLY OF
C-RIESS (PERCENT Of
UQ UEMENErs)                     U2.0         83.0      56.0                  50.2                     92.7
PROTEINS (Cams rEE DAY)            71.0         73.0      72.0                  53.0                     33.0
WO  WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       45.0         46.0      44.0                  15.4                     15.6
CEULD (ACES 1-4) MEOTALITY  AT       41.0         35.0      32.0                  27.7           ,         21.3
Y£ALTD
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRH (EARS)    37.0            40.0      42.0                  45.3                     50.1
1IPAYT hORUALITY RATE (rER
TIOINAND)                           154.04          *..
ACCESS TO AE WATEI (PERCENT OF
PopLATION)
TCIAL                                ..           ..        .                   23.2                     31.0
UEIA                                 ..           ..      16.0                  51.0                     66.5
SVEAL                                ..           ..        ..                  16.5
ACCLSS TO EXCETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF PQPULATION)
ID:AL                                ...                     .28.9                                         .
J                                    ..           ..        ..                  67.0
RVAL                                 ..           ..        .                      ..
POPELATION PER PHYSICIAN          39154.O1d   18309.0   15162.0                30910.4                  14508.2
POPMLATION PEH NURSING PERSON      7324.0LLe  4594.0    3427.0                  5793.2                   3279.5
POPLLATIUN PER HOSPITAL JID
W--Al                            5473.0/d.f  2964.0.a  2754.0                 1198.9                   1141.5
LIRUN                             549.0/d.f   715.07f
-  IRAL                          7995.01&f  5511.01         .
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL JED            ..           ..
HOUSI>C
A%TILACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
113AM                                ..           ..        .                      ..
MAL                                  ..           ..
4URLCE NLHkEBL OF PERSONS PER ROOM
11535                                ..           ..        .                      ..
RAL                                  ..           ..        ..
ACCESS To ELECTkICITY (PERCENT
OF C ELL1NGS)
T,.AL                                ..           ..
U115                                 ..           ..        .                       ..
ELlA].                               ..           ..         .                      ..
L&BAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 27 -                                ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
MURITANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MYUIITANIA                   RIERlElcE (ZQUPS (WEIGETED AV iACES
- MNST RECENT ESTINATE7A
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             RIDDLE INCCIE
1960  t     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AnICA SOUTR OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH Of SARAIRA
FDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMIET RATIOS
PRIMAY:    TOTAL                  8.0        16.0      31.0                  57.7                   61.7
MALE                 13.8        23.0      40.0                 74.2                   69.2
FEALE                3.0         9.0       21.0                 54.1                   51.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 0.4         2.0       4.0                  10.0                   20.6
MALE                  1.0         4.0       6.0                 13.7                   29.2
FEIALE               0.04        0.5        1.0                  7.1                   14.7
VOCATtINAL ENROL. (2 o0  SECOtNDART)  7.7       12.5       ..                  6.8                     7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          20.0        24.0        ..      --         45.0                    36.6
SECOIARY                         17.0        23.0        ..                 25.2                    24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       5.0         10.0      17.0                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND0
POPL'ATION                        0.4         4.0        ..                  3.6                    38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TrOUSAND
POPULATION                       13.0        47.0      73.0                 31.5                   83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPIJLATION                         ..         ..        ..                  1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILS GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TiOUSAND POPULATION                   ..         ..        ..                  4.6                    24.2
CINENA AtbUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..         ..        ..                   ..                     0.7
LASOR PORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TROUSAliDS)    299.3       371.0    461.0
fEtALE (PERCENT)                  3.9         4.1       4.3                 33.5                   38.1
AGRICGL7URE (PERCENT)            91.2        87.5      85.0                 80.7                   54.3
INDEiSTRY (PERCENT)               2.9         3.9       5.0                   6.1                   17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.1        31.3      30.9                 42.2                   38.8
kALE                               62.1         60.5      59.9                55.1                    48.4
EEhALE                              2.5         2.6       2.6                 29.5                   29.4
EGOHtN;IC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.5         1.5       1.6                  1.2                    1.3
D COE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCONE
LECEIVED BY
RIGhEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
kIGhEST 20 PERCENT OF BOUSEhOLDS    ..         ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOlSEDOLDS     ..         ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOIE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..                 138.2
RURAL                              ..          ..     110.0                 86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (IS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          *.    330.0                 107.0
RURAL                              ..          ..    120.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY IISCOhE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URbAN                               ..         ..
kURAL                              ..          ..        ..                 66.9
Not availabLe
Not applicable.
NOTES
)a  The gro p averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic menas. Coverage of countries
among tle inidicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
{b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. betw.!en 1969
and 197i; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
iS   1960-653  /d 1962; je Government Pereonnel only; /f Government hospital establishments unly.
April, 1980



- 28 -                                                                    ANNEX I
SffINITIPIsS Or SOCIAL IUSIIAf055
Sac..:  Althb.meh che d.t.arse d-ew  trot  -or.. SnoutaLly luodte   s   ahaiula  n   ulai.I  should ..l  be noted Chat th.y say u.  be  ncr
uetiouolln oOp.rabl.    .     ofthu tech of u.udurdt.ud iflst lnit . ad  amOtp o ad' by dif  wnnonr.  In cullunin  th. data.  TMe dat. a.   o
themes. asfcItu so -dsob.  .uuc   of  s.nitod.. indi.ct. tread.. amd  k__n.ctol m   ... tL. _J.,o dtffur....C.  bel-a.. cltustrl..
lbsrufraus pnpaur  III thu uS  coatr  group of th. uubjct Coutry ad (21 s country I-op wIsh soabthig. ueru.  tauathan the tCnur  growa
uPThusblo "      oonry  ..... u   Cptllrpa   i  !prus  Ianu.                             "Mtddl. 1noos  S.thn  Afrt, IC  .d ft"Idi  e   I. nh.ueC     ea.  Psun
uunlo-uin.aal afffltlu . In th Wuravle group data the  ntes   r  pnpa.uu  wighted .rltha.tic  uam..  for such ladloatur .nd  ho.- only  h.. at
inset halP f t Ce tno-tCl.. L. a 5oonp h*. data for that lattotor            lint      . seonrg  of toautrioe w        thu ind L.tIr. depend, on tb. svatlobllty uP
ute amd Lu nt o_tur._  _.ti_a mast he                   torledi    ltu   w-etuee  of --e indictor ts nauthar.  Th-u  .-onu..u urn u       ... osful1   coarogths  -Iu.
Pa  Osum  s     i  e srta  n  uue  A  ad  sas a dm   Inladw egnre.                        liesuaf.d               ada.uhLtaierlplu.
9- C ope   - Ingi-son uP sawleeisew, uaeo  used C    ely                sfly              Pale          r b1.ifima Foroas  - P.eaAan dinidud by ammadof .1Pw tinLtue
Pu   f pmmp.a.u. shut ad  bitdm         ddu     ' ton    Ie. idJle; 1571 dat.o"           a    es.  rnasn."Pc            PuCtiu  sad. ad usontusa ear..
ft!ftAd                        - s: tatn   sub...  -   a   -ftlopIttel (tauta.
aCassd bFydo CnsaRaretal  -s6mad PIuceId l-b  ALlan PillayM  bst.l)  19W".                   watiueele L. PsbIl  ad P.i-.ns  P.0onn  ad ef.c±ldad 10Wtta ad eV,
1090. ad 1915 dAuC.                                                                          bbultng'aa Imocar'.  Eapitnle as sLaowllnsu P"Mmotiy uncPfnd
gy& nt Seas  -  phyuials.  Beowhlishomnto preldta pt.,Lpelly toncuWini
? v    WT1     P   CAItA  A-  uI usssma lapta nP caenfei   "WNW(.-                          c     PopW  sc feui.d.d.  soaeL ,     ltael. bannrse. team=     hunith ad sdice
~ iiestn. ptasin m. .enl gam   d bvdrs-. aalo  ad ~tsmebta.l sin-                      siusaes su,c psamesomm ly  tnffed bi a  hs. Pbs..oa(t by .   diusl saufenst.
Cne.t"iy  in biLasrs nO osn  uq.ainlus  PM o6net 1540  19N., ad i9?8                         sans.  401dts. etc.)  btIt aft urIs-parttot n-uemmdenla  ad vos.Id.s
dote.                                                                                        Iftit"  ns.~  of   dIe        alinctia.  P.r stestioanI psrpuu.. urbsa hsPt-
ge alseld., CSNM  PriLipelo ml       adseol,lse  bsuptt.lu. ad  -wuL
hstAa1. 51  ,r roar.t %.eptteeadsi            ad satnusty aO.mtuu.
H   (PUUMO~           of uP by 1; 19. 1918. aod 1975                                               Tota...~9aj.j~-ml  .hs- .2 eduleat ts  a  dLehrn
4illadsfAitir   sO       s..  aq niPea  ausp-arstiny nf dete
amoo  Nmontlam, 19W. 1970. ad  1O78 Lut.                                              M     rn  Uieu.    nbsdf ri atbaahLd)      un.ahu   ds
peCnrss  Mi.usi  projsaottle.  Su  booed a  0860           sam!d ubel*se ma.Un.  A bsagdn w    1udeo  myi            . my   t be Inacinded is
sati IpsIeefeS b   a5  a=        awd gbeio  teaaiiy ad fertilty rSated,.                 ho o540  3j  Pnoc.sltini  p.s
8e9 11*.   savtov- st bimtviyrth e?eae  atb   ttY  Par sep0Itsin.  ..                           pe.eemper  rn  i  no     l satinoduuluspe  ustaiamo
bensl,ad metsuawa lMP  espeot isgr ehiSL*iu omme77.2' ,sne "Lt  isam.-                ftulvsgn.u.,ai.il  La UA    asbfttlutdi    npmn                       ot
1anne. Pe: goomule Ity  e   alatbeau shun1. mauls t7. puaega  delb. Vene                             pslt .            -Ine
fnuriity eaCnud"e  ts imuamo  gessl ad pent featly PIrnn   Porteuasso.                 A.nslnrtt(uu5c*5le)t0PU..~.t!
"Chb usrnS     In Shi nslwed Ism of the"a eOn ca0iselAsoo f                                                                                               meet-lI.uY 
ad fertiIty tuads Par prujuolts  psuexpun.                                               *                   d.n                   aaiu
stficiaddIr,        ln.:  Vne aany   u      tLeai  tbur. Sn mm grmmtb sean
nba bl    Cam ae I. eqol Sethu dngb ucm.. ad   I-a thu MOn elmt- ue u-
mwam unsuna.  Thi, in *.bi-d saLy elten  PartUtiy  ness. dstiis  to                     intd          s.    eca
sha fplesaat  .551.0 atat e.edtl  tt.t40b                       5eis             pinAr  eaMs  - nto"I.    sa   frnplu  - Ine.e  total. us.1  ada Arnie
tO mome   u5.Fueee It-if1 auns,i.  ThA .nscaut     y pp.WLuin   mi.. -7                    Pssias          .11 see. At tatu ptam.   Innul apooneatedn oP rapecnioe
ftint     u  'h,         tauutu tha projastced               atatuinluu  thu p"upaLesl      "Imee  snhl-.gu Pospsienlrn   moal  Lactis  "bLLdravi m6mdt6-1
to St. Joen 260. ad th. te.C     4IA of d        fis  . stUisy none t. eaSe.-              puer  hut adju.ead fun diffeemem lingthe up primnjt ednueciu; Pu
rnt lup..i.j~mrjv     b  pa,A                               u jwyP..aia                   naitrn "'With ailurs"I uduatlsatlnat                sa-Y arad  LOD peCton
Tar ucff    nyisisi=I   ste     Tu~e   hsusneerP9lno                                         ne..        puapi,L,  el. hulom M .b-at. th  s1icial school a..
utna he busa r"nlnd.                                                                     sesadn," ut Ie  - tortu,ei   d rnu-Gas u   hueunoer
Par a. be. - P.-eap96.1051.  pun oqsu  burnmt., (109 Puntrer.) nP                            posndn  snsl auti-sI. ut tee-he  treinlne ilt-rwtieu   Ptr popib
metal MomS.                                                                                umaIly at 12 to 17 ysetw  uP us.: corouepusdanu tar.               seeo*ernlly
Par a. be. WLriawlaol I-md - cow""d .. ebeu. (ft  ugr.sltterela 1usd&W
ls,olec4. dA" 1-1rnn   (ro atte        - CbiLdAsa P0-IA yoarn). *  suing-ego P15-               matd   nhln.Ada.n.e   te   nnrewihuua ldupoa-
Lutlos;. i50  19.. end 1 lte675 deP-oo aa.                                                 Pwuo p.- d-ly-tsno  ra  "tla-  riur at d Pamaud- ny Lottutatttim tsuaul.d
Wtrls.la Irahln   ..r                 o.       swlgnn   ue  u   se   l-pieya    uudo   ewi  iln    by sbsr  us stesbeca .. thu L
ar pupultias  Pot 1950-40t,           70h-y. aod 1910.76.                                    to,t.upuudi.s lusI..
Ps.clotiet  nwhU.Peaut     na      es2  tawtt nut, at -tb. 9P.                                 dl ltcc   rt   atst    Lltfutu edait. (.ble tu raed Cud -nit.)
Lottmom F.  11950-40  196-70  ad 191-5                                                       a     ptonruuPtun     Idt pu9Jtiwtlo  PAed 15 ye-r  ad oust.
CoeithDAc  (.  tnse) -  .--I. lit. brtchs per tibsusad uf iajd-ymer
peaa III 160  1970,an   Toy  data.                                                                 ("    c-o t-at                   -Pomeo.Cre.pr. s.
QWod  DuetI gen  Punt, th-:::a)- Annual dsetbu put Lb-ana.d et stid-.yen                               enC.  huadnultn)-Puues   e.cnrs   n
NVapoLasl; 1960. ll  an 711  data.                                                          ranr  aecig  l... tha uight puruusa  nocldus abtietn . h.....t and
CrCo   tr".datni-on    t - Avs...u um.sTe  ut d-ttht-t      ua  will beer Ln                 .Linu    uhciw
Wo  ua.ul caprdottin  perind iP abe usaiet  prweamt ngn-epmtif It Pr-                    gal   nia.(e  htnduokuo)-All type. of r...anars forl rud
nIlry  ennt cauiyPic-yuan   -S..ae  wodiWS Is 19h0. 1970. ead 19I                   Ptucuut   a..   aio pe   haen   fpplaln   aloo    si
of birth-te.trol d-nicus adur  -Pi.p.c. If notilol Peily  Clunn   rnon                       ni   tut  data cmer              w tucg  yeusay' non  re tIptbo  situ. of out
Fal,FluI.    nwtIuratt ' nerrlof no) - PrL".ae  of seriud                                     Lt.   fft CCs  tbls.ud - ilans.CltV-      y..b   . .b.i.
anoo   hl-boarliage P..15-t4 yeta) who u-  hitth-Coatr-1 dni... tO               TId  no-ivue    letIbannd sunir...   I   rcIcoc  for h-ro..tat to
all  et-rnd aun  e sen at  pop.                                                    gsuu   ulC pe htoneed popslslon; teclad.. -llt.asud TV 01 usucts
POD IM' ttiltTILTAe                                                                          Ln tutotri.. .ad is 7        ,har. we    Is.rtt  f TV .st.  -e  tu wffutt.
1.0- If Food F-d-ti                                                R_~~~~~~~~~~~aomo  Circulatio   Fie  thued one  Aloion) - Shun  thu .-OrogtCtttla
tuf, o  Fa  Ptduci- r-i C.Pit. (1969-71-100) - ttdn  .0 per olpito  =.Ita              Lien If  daily 2untRu  EMurS...t  -F-ppe' dfit   .apruIC.,  ub
ptodnarci.  uPai  fo  oindt              '-.Nd-ciotsca        scu  so  Pe1-t icol  d-ntud p,loartly  onrCftdi1l *soetl 5.5   It isoaId.ra
tus   audr  trbun Coodni.  toe  play tod   at   eera                                           b. "d.1l7  if it appear. nL  leamt furtm.         atah
tounad o   .at) uhith arm udibla  . and cot.i L tios(uscf..ad                       lnu.Anal.tudeuwrCeiast tsa      ae   a                             nhro
s aru  uoidndl.  doscosot. pr-dociut oP .ohconri.batd                                  tiths  uId dou   h   ur  nldu    dulsl.n. to drir-Le closea
not-Iau  cauuS. produo-  prics nugi; 191-. 1970. and 1978 dat.,                           ad sabil. aLt..
usc taclta woly of caloies 'ccata   uai,unu    Canotsd P r-
put day. =Ostlbl. uuppliuu Cosyri.. dauuti. production. lnnor_  i.u                    TIClLbr  oc    th.ttw              E-     It.2lsly  .tem- psroo, 1tclditg
waport. sod  bso _r taeoh-u upi.acuuoia   sd   td,                                  acd forcwn endl towiysd WCot. us dtlui   houtwi-a.utdos.ec
qaiiaued ai oo  pouiog,. ad   usi  dissrib.tian.  Ru9ulta-                       D.fLoIi-tr  to  -f-uu  C.a.trin .at. ..ot ..uca...bla; 1960. 1970 and
ne-ts tr  us-tand h,r AG1  .u..  00 I.by.t.l.oic-I nudu fcr --nea  .ti-                  1978 data.
ciy        "hdbri   ...nsidering  -aLr-nettl  bcprsr. bdy suights, sgn                1wa,ruc)-pwl  labor I.r.. .u perrunost  of totl 1.bcr force.
and sC, dia-rbotor  o  pOcate,  o  a!Io.io  ii purc...t fur ..se t.                     Agiutr   ctat    Labor farc  in foroit. for...t. tr,.ttt.t atd
boshto1  ltu;15-_         .11,a 11977 da.                                               flhirg so yr-mngu of Ctotu  labor P.rrc; 1*60. 1970 sad i97tua
Per -ant. uaraly of or-tol  (xrsa."rc doy) - tratsIt  Iotn   f pwrCorpito.                 dsr    tret    LbrfreS   ti:  ccnrucin   onfcuic
an Wopy o f fond P.r lay.   utupply of fuod Lu dafiund  ,.lahn,-    t-                 an   .lcrt....       tu  ad. f...  a. pnnetagnof - total. laorforts;lOL
ILtons    o   .l.......cuhlhu   yISAprrd  Prsila                                1970 and 1970 deco.
I'lt,so   cI.  h  Irate Ifcol pot Per day and i0 gSCw   of acinol an                    atcuaictn  Pctn)-noo.sl.  cdftl    P rtiolaa   or,
ant:.d,        aunsroefr  h   uIdf  pra-             s P-~'by.. ra  to th  Thr-cotsn   fttl   a.ad fac1. populatio  uf all -&-- oou7wcti-nly;
W.r"d Food Strony. 1961-65. 1970 .od 1977 d.ta.             O196.171   t  lol dta.  Tnauot                                                p-oticLpatitn rat.. -t i-ttso
Per cclta  totui  socily ta   alsa  and  ulno      ..oul  su pply It food do-      ll-atutu  trt , P thu P.pltu.odln   in   ra.*fnsd
ri-ad frrr sotsalu ed polar. 1. Srouu pur day;1 96-1.    0 .td 1077 dat..   _cconC Serw-desuc,t9.l. - Rscle of parplacin  _odsr 15 and 6) atd  -on
CVtd±euu  -     _ttu tei txLcnItarthoceS_od)         I oo    d.atha psr  -h_ca  i      7 . ths total labor fort...
0,10. data dart ad folftable 1960. 7190 tad 1017 dots.                                 INCStE DIS' IBUTtON
-1                                                                     S n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wtnnun   i Pt-1 Itaa.o-   (both In 00h and h_id) - toI' wd by rich-ot
IieLocac   -t girth (nCar.) -           -saa   -su  If yearw  of lit. rueiol.&        5 prcent, richeut 20 p..c.nt. p.r.t.t 10 p.runat. aad pant iiPaccrr
n  irth; L9a0. 1900 end 1970 dota.                                                        oP hooaaho1du.
to Mo trtllr3          h~e rba.o..i) -AoIutl d-ah. uf infacte nedn  .n. yrar   rvct  rotE  oocn
czi acepo  thou..anJ IIte tlth.ZtoTlsa-d AbsLutrM   -rerc  I.oose L-aL (')urcl    -rbat ..J rual-1
A:csuu to ifa_bOar ytant tjy01u.tlee) - ncol. urbat  uod ruaal               Abuciuts  -ron yt Jtoob  lu-.I Ls that itcoo  Ia.a.hub.1. clii",)a il
rate  sopir  locudrairwlti  artace  stru.o ....eudb hu  a CotasLaa             affardafud
botlstdastwn   Ltvitn cranaatl  1tcasof th bL.,  in roral srbau                     1-n1l ith  Jlluoset fec htuber  -nn  af liubS  i. orb. ataa.-
rastb            -Iac.,wud fpl.pvt thtC he  P,anot   r unntrt  If the  . hn hrold     ttstdPrltu    aaAnouOP.tnIrs   ee   crrt   _ru
I    'tbta  uati  aP.poari t   petIf ths day In fetobtug the                         .u   tnl      uta    fpanuiaai- Pu-tac and totl)ohe-crl abautket'.
pn~o  ba  incadstin  uibctio  ai  dltuas.   oIct Icc tldhoo    Ltatru.                                      ouuei          -dlyi  endW  DrjrtosC.   ars
of bese   .t.Josd  etan             ho -.a-br-hcc   uYatn   a  the  e                                                                     AtI. 100
pit ,ri,t.u  -.d srL,±tutait



-29-                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX I
-29 -                                               Page 4
IXE)OHI  ffllWf~4TDATA
(Amounts in millions of U1.3. doflers)
Actual              Estimated      Projected       1973-   1975 -   197f -   1985 -   1973    1977    1990
1973     1975      1977       179       1935    1990      i975    1977      1985      1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
3-Year Average at 1977        Prices & Exchange Rates       Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product            412.1    447.9    458.0        460.0    59b.5   690.0       4.2      1.1      3.4       3.0     96.5    99.6-  91.
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)      14.8      28.4      2.0       - 8.3     37.2    63.3         .       .        .         .       3.5      O.4   8.4
Gross Domestic Income             1T;W9 WTE           bO.0       435rT    tfl7?   7537!       5.6    -1.7       4,1       3.5    100.0   100.0 100.0
Import (incl. NFS)                249.3    351.5    374.6        378.3    321.9   379.8      18.7      3.2     -1.9       3.4     58.4    81.4  50.4
Exports   " (import capacity)   ,-2  2       g20f    182.9       16927    314.8   351        -1.0    -8.9       7.0       2.2     52.8    39.7  46.6
Resource Gap                      -24.1   -130.6   -191.7       -208,6     -7.1  -28.4         .        .        .                -7    -41.7 T 35
Consumption Expenditures          353.7    427.6    420.0        438.2    520.3   640.5       9.9    -0.9       2.7       4.3     82.8    91.3  85.0
Investment   "  (incl. stocks)    97.3    179.5    231.7         222.1    120.5   141.2      36.o    13.6      -7.8      3.2      22.8    50.4  18.7
Domestic Savings                   73.2      48.7     4o.o        13.5    113.4   112.8    -18.0    -9.4       13.9      -0.5     17.1     8.7  15.0
National Savings                   88.1    119.9    113.9         60.1     98.4   100.T      16.o    -2.5      -1.9       0.5     20.6    24.8  13.4
MERCHANDISE TRADP                           Annual Data at Current Prices and Exchange Rates                                      As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods and
Intermediate goods (".fuels)   81.3    144.9    170.3          142.8   226.6   382.9       33.5    11.3       3.6    11.0       58.2   58.3  56.8
Fuels and related materials      iO.O      26.7     32.1        34.1     65.3    91.6      63.0      9.6      9.3      7.8       7.2   11.0  13.6
Consunotion goods                48,4      70,2     89.5        90.0   141 ,5  2000        20.5    17.9       5.9      7.2      34,6   30.7  29.6
Total Morch. imports (cif)      139.7    24T18    291.9        266.9    433         .5     31.5    12.9       3.0      9.3    100.0  100.0 100.0
Exports
Iron Ore                        102.9    143.4    127.0         99.2   398.6   497.4       18.0    -5.9      15,4      4.5     76.7    76.1  75.3
Copper Concentrate               12.8      4,5      10.7         9.4     -       -        -41.2    53.0        .        ,        9,5     7.2 -
Fish Products                    12.3      16.0     20,5        21.0     71.6  158.2       14.o    13.2      16.9     17.1       9.2    16.1  23.9
Other Products                    6.2      3,1       1,8       0Q7        3,5     5.0    -29.6   -23.7        8.7      7.4      4.6      0.6   0.8
Total Merch. Exports (fob)      134.2    167.0    160.0        130.4    7T3,T      55      T11.6  -2.2       14.5     75    100.0   100.0 100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                     Average 19T7      100
Export Price Index               75,4   lO7.O    100,0         99,6    183,6   251.4       19.1    -4.9       7.9      6.4
Import Price Index               70.5     90.3    100.0       107.0    161.6  206.3        13.2     5.2       6,2      5.0
Terms of Trade Index            107.0    118.5    100.0        93.1    113.6  121.9         5.2    -8.2       1.6      1.4
Exports Volume Index            111.2      97.5    100.0        86,3    161.2   164.2      -6.4     1.3       6.1      0.4
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR             Annual Data at 1917    Prices and Exchange Rates             Average Annual Growth Bates       As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      90.2    116.0    103.3       116.3    150.9  182.7        13.4    -5.2       4.9      4.0     25.0    25.9  30.5
Industry and Mining             141.1    111,5    108.9       100.8    181,8   201.3    -11.1    -1.2        6.6       2.1     39.2    27.3  33.5
Service                         129.1    151,6    186.7       171.8    189,6  216.0        8.4    11.0       0.2       2.7     35.8    46.8  36.0
Total                           360.4    379.1    398.9       388.9    522.3   600.0        2.5    73 T                5:W    100.0  1200.0 1l00.0 
PUBLIC FINANCE                    Annual Data in Current Prices and Exchenge Rates                                                 As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)
Current Receipts                 62.9      90.3    100.7       108.2   291.1   444.4      20.0      6.4     13.9       8.8      23.9    22.7 26.8
Currentptenditures               58.4      99.5    190.4       197.0   300.4   362.4      29.0    39.5       5.1       3.6      22.2    42.9 21.9
CurriiWent B ice                  4.5      -9.2    -89.7        -88 8.,          . 82.0      .       .         .        *        1.7  -20.2  1iT5
Actual
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS             1976      1977     1         1979     1980        DETAIL Ol                               1974 -1977
As % Total Current Expenditures)                                                        PISLIC  SECTOR                $ million        9 of Total
Wages and Salaries                    27.0      35.6     33.7      34.1     45.2         Agriculture                       25.2            5.9
Material and Supplies                  17.0     24.4     33.3      38.2     24.3         Mining                           110.0           25,6
Subsidies and Transfers                8.3       8.0      6.3       7.8      8.9         Manufacturing                    114.0           26.5
Public Debt                            6.8       4.1     20.2      13.4     12.1         Infrastructure                   130,0           30.2
Other                                  4.1       0.9      6.5       6.5      9.5         Public Utilities                  19.0            4.4
Special Accounts                      36.9      26.9       -                             Other                            31.8             7.4
Total Expenditures              430.0           100.0
Total expeuditures                   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0           FINANCING
Pulblic S0ctor Savings        33.2             7.0
ForeigaL Capital Grants       45.3            10.5
Foreign Loans                351.5            81.8
Total Financing              430.0           100.0
LABOR FORCE                                    Total Labor Force
In  Thousands      % of Total          1970 - 77
1970       1977    1970       1977     Growth Rate
Agriculture(incl. Livestock)  306.0        315.0    85.0       75.0        o.4
Industry  and Service           54.0       105.0    15.0      25.0        12,8
Total                          360.0       420.0   100.0     100.0         2.2
not applicable        - nil or negligible
not available        -- less than half the
smallest unit shown
4 Including unemployed.



30 -                                                                                          AIMXE  I
Pace 5
EALANCR OF PAYMENTS, Er=I¶ AL ASSISTANCE AND DERW
ts   nt t-i millosof TV S, dollars .t corre-t prices)
1/                        ~~~~~~~~Avg . Arsctoal
Aensel                                      Projected    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~neeath Rate
1973         1974           9775 1      1976           1977           1978          1979         1980MU993                  1985          1990      1973-1977    1977-1990
sMMAPY BA7LANCE O  PAYMBNTS
T>cpcrts (ir.cl. NFS)                       144.S         203.6        185.6         201.9         178.8           161.4        196.9         238.0        411.2         518.6        725 .5        5.4           114
DleTsrPutt (nel.il92)                       154.9         246.6        307.0        401.6          386.5           352.7        494.2         487.0        408.9         504.7        785 0        25.0            5.6
Peeorees Solancr 70-N)                      -10.1         -4T.O    ~T7tT            -19Y.T7       -207.7          -191.3       279-77        -n4r          -TT          -TrV          '1 7
Trter-ete  u  Public Debt                    -2.0          -4.4         -5.5          -7.8         -14.6           -13.4        -17.7         -23.4        .44.3         -34.3        -40.3        65.0            8.1
Dir-ct  Ds-ot-ect luc-re                      -3.4         -6.0         -0.2          -0.5          - 0.8           ..            -0.9         -1.0          -6.2         -6.3         -6.5       -30.1           17.5
Workers' Omocitase                           -14.6        -16.2        -24.4         -28.4          -27.6          -31.3         -32.6        -34.9        -42.7         -48.9         -60.4       17.3            6.2
Currert k r- adorn (R Gt)                     314          72.7          76.6        139.7          119.6          149.2          80 9         72.5          66.0         65.3          82.3       40.0           -2.8
oluce o.n Cc-   Accoot                         1.3          3.1        -7469         19. 7          1311            868        -             -235.         -24.9          10.3        -94.4
Direst  vessmeneeec                           10.3         35.5        -12.8 2/    -49.7 3/           4.4          -           6.8  38.0 4/     2.0           3.0          5.0          10.0        *              6.5
Iffiral Capitol Gron-t                        8.4          9.1          10.9         12.0           13.6            15.2         15.7         16.8          24.0         31.0          43.0       12.8            9.3
Poli7 012 I0 o6ns 5/
Dilcecte                                   28.3          46.7         45.3         184.6           77.2          109.7        224.1         236.2         53.7          79.8        173.0        29.0            6.8
-Repaysts                                   -5 .9         -8.4        -23.0         -19.4         -22.6           -17.5         -9.1        -165.4        -394.1        -48.2        -70.9        40.             9.
;iet lcibursiLoenctc                         22.5          38.3         22.0         165.2           54.6           92.2         215.0        219.8          14.6         31.6                     25.0            4.7
thter- IGLT iooc .. cc)                     -15.7          -3.1         -2.2          -3.3          - 1.9            2.2           3.0         -             -            -
Sheet-Tent Copilnl                        -20.5         -43.7          0.2           1.8           12.5           ..           -             -            -             -            -
C-ritol  -raccacoosto n i.                    -7.0          5.2           4.1        -11.4            2.7            3.3          -            -
Chang. in Net Reserves l i--ncreace)           0.7        -44.4         52.7         -17.9           45.2          -19.3          -3.2         -2.8         -16.7        -57.3         -67.7
LOAN COnIITnEDNTO                               1975        1976        1977           0978          1979
PublIc n cnd LT icon.                                                                                                                                                            Act  1
IB0D                                       8              -            -                        60.0             DEBT AND DEBT S                       197              1976      19         1978      1979
104                                        9.5           2.7          3.5            -           8.1              ETAl  23   EVC
AFESD                                       -           45.9           -             -          38.9
thoe Msulcllotrol                          -            2.4          3.2           19.2        14.2             Public Debt Oct. and Disbsresd        188.1            392.8    459.8       574.7    590.2
Goveesoe-`c                               63.9          98.8         36.7           76.6       256.3
supplier                                   59            3 3         10.             3.           -                Interet cPobliO0 Debt                 5.5              7 .9      9.1        9.6      15.5
Fino.c.. l In.t1oitti-s                   13.4          27.9         20.7           19.2        19.1               9epo  ..etf1                         34.1             69.5      32.0       16.6      50.7
sends                                       -             -            -              
Ossi-nalicatioc  co.ns                      -             -           _              -           _                Totol Poblin Debt Sernice             39.6             77 .4     41.1       26.2      66.2
ocal P.ullc M and LT Lo-s                   86.2         181.0         75.0         117.2        396.4           Borden on Bxpctt E-ricgn (7.)
Poblis Debt SOr-els                  24.0            42.2       25.1       20.3      42.6
XEDotNAL  DEBT                                        A-tool Debt OOnl tctdicg  en Dete-ber 310 1979               Aneroge Ter.o of Public Debt
World B-uk                                           -                -             690          5.4               Iet. .n 7 Prior Tear  0 end D           3.3              4.2       2.3        2.1       2.7
DLe                                                 34.1             5.8           47.4          4.2               Aco.rn. as X-tier YDer DO nd D    20.2                 37.0       8.2         3.6       8.8
Doter Moilclt-erl                                   75.5            12.8          144.7         13.0
Occeroneote                                       0347.4            58.9          715 4         64.1             1DA Debt Out. ocd  Disbursed            14.1             19.6       24.3       29.9      34.1
lPiapli-c                                           64.9            11.0            677.         6.1             IDA 88 1 Poblic Debt 0 end D              7.5             4.7       5.3         5.2       5.8
Nlcasooal inn-ti o    -Luns                         19.3             9.9            70.5         6.3             IDA at S Public Debt Semite              0.4              0.4       0.9         1.2       0.8
DteeiticLe.nt                              l0.D             1.7            10:0         0.9
Tot-l                                            590.2          100.0         1,115.6        104.0
1/    The bIlsoce so  p0ym55tc  pr-jesnls.n  ore bated us th  follcciog  -ccoepti...: (i> te-ohedolingo c- tsn.lidatioc of  bust
i third of ecloning senercel debt (1US215 nilliso-) Os scened by the Go-erceoct; (ii) esopse. iso of guerrilla etinity,
permittiog  ono  onclya normal cenooptic- of ies   r-e .xpornt  bot a1le  the supprcsioO  of military cqsipFint importead  (iii) normal
osoccer conditinsc, p-rmitting o ropld lnprvepenpt of Sgrioulto..l prodoction. Shosld the SRhbts cenflict peesiat en dresght
occur  in othee years, it has been ... ... d that chess eso.ptio-l espendionec woeld be ficanesd by s-pple-ntary ester  l .s.tietancs.
2/      Insludicg   e paynent of oboct 520 million for the ocqoieitic  cf SOHMA.
3/      Minly paytsts to MIFEMAM  a shahroldert.
4/     Mainly nec  qsity patnicipatios, in  185I.
s/     Eocludin   Io..s fer balen. of pay-ota copport.
9/     Inloddicg -epoyc-nt on leoss fcc  bulence of py-eento ouppo-t but ..ecIdiua
the 00S40  -illeosh pcymcnt on MIFEfHA shaceholde-s ic 1976,  ince this
-s rode uith the pcr.eedo cf o loon se.tnoctnd by XFTCIC.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA (as of June 30, 1980)
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Loan or                                                 Amount less Cancellation 1/
Credit                                                           (US$ million)
Number     Year    Borrower       Purpose               Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
One Loan and Four Credits fully disbursed               66.0    15.0          -
444-MAU    1973    Mauritania   Drought Relief Fund               2.5       0.1
459-MAU    1974    Mauritania   Education                         3.8       2.3
519-MAU    1975    Mauritania   Third Highway                     3.0       0.7
588-MAU    1975    Mauritania   Nouadhibou Port                   8.0       0.1
665-MAU    1976    Mauritania   Technical Assis-
tance I                      2.7        1.1
694-MAU    1977    Mauritania   SONADER - Technical
Assistance                   3.5        0.4
888-MAU    1979    Mauritania   Urban and Rural
Development                  8.0        6.3
1747-MAU2/ 1980    SNIM           Guelbs Iron Ore       60.0      _        60.0
TOTAL                                126.0    46.5       71.0
of which has been repaid           66.0     1.0
Total now outstanding                 60.0    45.5
Amount sold                      63.4   -
of which has been repaid    63.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA        60.0    45.5       71.0
Total Undisbursed                     60.0    11.0       71.0
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Not yet effective.



_ 32 _
ANNEX I I
Page 2
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 459 MAU    Education Project:  US$3.8 million; Credit Agreement:
February 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation was delayed in 1975/76 because of weak
project management and the need to review the cost and content of the project
in face of higher than anticipated price escalation. Since alternative
financing was not available, the scope of the project was reduced with approval
of the Executive Directors. The project now provides for: (a) a vocational
training center in Nouakchott; (b) a mining training program in Nouadhibou;
(c) training programs for farmers on irrigated perimeters; (d) an experi-
mental study of introducing reading, writing and arithmetic in the Koranic
school system; and (e) technical assistance for the Directorate of Planning.
Project management has improved and project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily. Construction of the vocational training center is about to be
completed. The farmer training component has been revised to integrate it
with Government irrigation projects, and the Koranic school experiment is
nearly completed, but some key questions remain to be investigated during the
final phase which is expected to end by the fall of 1980. The project is
expected to be completed by June 1983.
Credit No 519 MAU   Third Highway Project:  US$3.0 million; Credit Agreement:
December 11, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The principal aim of the project is to consolidate and expand the
maintenance and betterment work efforts started under the First Road Mainten-
ance Project (Cr. No. 159 MAU). The project consists of: (a) technical
assistance to relieve the shortage of qualified highway personnel and to allow
for continuation of the training program undertaken under the previous
Credit; (b) purchase of highway equipment for maintenance and betterment
works; (c) a betterment program of about 365 km including earthworks and
construction of drainage structures; and (d) a feasibility study and detailed
engineering of the Rosso-Boghe road (200 km). The project, which was esti-
mated to cost US$13.7 million, is financed jointly by the Kuwait Fund (US$3.8
million) and in parallel by the Government of Canada (US$4.2 million). The
project became effective on June 8, 1976. The betterment program to be
executed by force account is the central element of the project, and is now
about three years behind appraisal schedule. Although most of the Canadian
equipment has arrived, the project extension is still slow. Difficulties were
due to a lack of managerial and technical competence; lack of funds to pre-
finance force account work; complex project administration; and a cost
overrun resulting from delayed credit effectiveness and project implementa-
tion. Following agreement between the Association, the Government and the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Fund, the Credit Agreement was modified essentially to reduce the betterment
program from 365 to 215 kn, in order to stay within the financial envelope
provided. Following approval by the Exeuctive Directors, the Credit Agreement
was amended June 15, 1979 to reflect these changes. Although the reduced
project is being financed 100 percent by the Association and the Kuwait Fund,
and the Government has simplified its procurement procedures, project execu-
tion is still slow due to complex project administration. The Government is
reviewing the Public Works organization in order to simplify its administra-
tion. The technical assistance to the Ministry of Plan, and the feasibility
study of the Rosso-Boghe Road, have been satisfactorily completed.
Credit No. 588 MAU      Nouadhibou Port Project:  US$8 million; Credit
Agreement: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
This project supports the development strategy of the fishing
sector in Mauritania. It aims to enlarge the port and improve its administra-
tion and operation. Contents: (a) construction of civil works, consisting of
fishing and commercial berths and an approachway, a sewerage scheme and
various buildings; (b) purchase of a harbor master's launch; (c) technical
assistance to the Port Autonome de Nouadhibou for port administration, opera-
tions and reorganization of its accounting and financial systems; and (d)
consulting services for studies on the need for, and development of, ship-
repair facilities. Although the IDA Credit was declared effective only in
June 1976 (due to delays in the ratification of the Kuwait Fund Loan Agree-
ment), work on the principal item of the civil works, the marine works, had
commenced in February 1976. Work subsequently commenced for all the civil
works components, and the majority of the work was completed by mid-1978. The
extension to the commercial berths and the new fishing berths went into
operation in November 1977. A considerable increase in the volume of rock to
be dredged resulted in cost overruns for this item, but the overall project
cost has been maintained. All civil works have been completed with the
exception of a sailors' residential club, which is expected to be completed by
October 1980. The technical assistance component, as well as the study for
facilities to repair small ships, are also completed. The declining trend in
traffic at both the fishing and commercial berths, is expected to be reversed
with an improvement in the political and economic atmosphere, progress with
the Guelbs mining project, and the Government's strongly intensified efforts
to develop the fishing sector.
Credit No. 694 MIAU     SONADER Technical Assistance Project:  US$3.5 million;
Credit Agreement: April 8, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project consists of: (i) 3-year services of seven expatriate
experts to assist SONADER in identifying, preparing and implementing irriga-
tion projects, and to train Mlauritanian professionals; (ii) consultant ser-
vices to carry out complementary studies of the Gorgol Irrigation Project and
other studies; (iii) purchases of vehicles and office equipment. The team of
expatriates and Mauritanian professionals continues to perform satisfactorily.
Complementary studies of the Gorgol Irrigation perimeter of the Foum el Gleita
Dam have been completed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 47 MAU      SONADER Technical Assistance Project:  US$1.5 million
EEC Special Action Supplementary Credit; Credit
Agreement: February 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This supplementary credit would finance: (a) one year extension
of the services of expatriate experts financed under Cr. 694 MAU; (b) a
training expert for one year; (c) consultant budget; and (d) scholarships
and training of Mauritanian professionals abroad. The Credit is not yet
effective.
Credit No. 665 MAU    Technical Assistance Project:  US$2.7 million;
Credit Agreement: December 9, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The aim of the project is to strengthen the Ministry of Planning
in order that it can exercise its responsibility as a central agency which
will integrate overall plan and policy formulation with the preparation
and financing of sectoral programs and their related projects. The project
provides a four-year program to finance: (a) five professionals for the
Ministry of Planning to elaborate long-term general and sectoral strategies,
set priorities, identify projects, undertake economic and financial analysis,
train Mauritanian counterparts to take over their tasks; and (b) temporary
consultants to deal with special subjects when needed. All experts have been
recruited. The team leader and the industrial economist took up their assign-
ment in January and the other experts in May/June 1978. The construction of
the offices for the experts has been completed. The team is assisting Govern-
ment in reviewing its investment program, sector policies, and project prior-
ities. A good working dialogue has been established between the mission and
Mauritanian officials. The Project is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 888 MAU    Urban and Rural Development Project:  US$8.0 million;
Credit Agreement: April 11, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project includes three separate components to provide financial
and technical assistance: (i) to the industrial sector for development of
small- and medium-scale enterprises promising substantially lower investment
costs per job than currently; (ii) to the artisan sector for rehabilitating
and expanding the production of knotted carpets by decentralizing production
and improving training of weavers; and (iii) to the agricultural sector for
development of 30 new irrigated schemes under village cooperatives, including
an adequate credit scheme.  The project also provides consulting services to
study the feasibility of establishing a gypsum plaster brick industry to
replace expensive imported cement with locally-made bricks, and of creating
a new industrial zone in the capital city of Nouakchott. The study of the
plaster brick industry is completed, and that of the industrial zone is
underway. The strengthening of the Industrial Development Bank is progressing
satisfactorily, and one project eligible for financing under the IDA line of
credit has been approved. The artisan component has been encountering con-
siderable difficulty. Payment of fixed salaries to the weavers resulted in
substantial decrease in productivity, while several changes in management of



-35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
the extension agency entailed delays in the recruitment of trainee weavers,
construction of workshops, and processing of accounts. Significant steps have
however been taken recently to address these problems. The agency has been
reorganized and its activities are now restricted to carpet production and
marketing only. A new competent manager has been appointed, the production
based system of remuneration has been reinstated, and efforts are underway to
update the accounts. The production, though still at a low level, is picking
up. The agency's financial position remains weak, but a plan for consolida-
tion is under consideration. The agricultural component is progressing
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1747 MAU   -    Guelbs Iron Ore Mining Project - US$60 million
Loan Agreement: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
This project consists of opening new mines and constructing benefi-
ciation facilities in order to replace the declining production of the iron
ore deposits currently exploited in Mauritania in the Zouerate area which will
be depleted by 1991. The project will be implemented in two phases. The
first phase will produce 6 million tpy starting in 1984, followed 6 years
later by the second phase which will bring into production another 6 million
tpy. The Bank Loan of US$60 million is to help finance the first phase,
the total cost of which is US$500 million. The main project components are
the supplying of mining equipment and railroad rolling stock, the construc-
tion of a beneficiation plant and its ancillary facilities, the extension of
the port facilities, and the required engineering, project management and
training. Although the Bank Loan will only become effective within the next
months, project implementation has already started. The first contracts
for the supply of equipment on the critical path have been signed.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) First presentation to the Bank: 1967
(b) First Bank Mission to consider the project: 1967
(c) Agencies which prepared the project:
Ministry of Rural Development and SONADER
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: September 1978
(e) Co-lenders' Meetings: September 1978; July 1979,
March and June/July 1980.
(f) Completion of negotiations: July 30, 1980
(g) Planned effectiveness: December 1980
Section II:  Special Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government and SONADER have provided assurances on the following
principal items:
(a)  within ninety days after the Closing Date of the Credit,
Government will submit documentation on project expen-
ditures not previously claimed in an amount equal to the
total amount deposited by the Association and IFAD to
prefinance the Special Account. If such documentation is
not submitted or is not adequate to justify expenditures,
Government will refund the amount in question to the
Association (para. 47);
(b) Government will cover any deficit in the Operating Account
(para. 48);
(c) SONADER will establish and maintain a system of water charges
to cover maintenance costs of the works, basic salaries,
and a portion of the operating charges of GPD (para. 51);
(d) Government will maintain the M'Bout-Kiffa road or any
alternative access road to the project area at all-weather
conditions (para. 54);



_ 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) SONADER will operate project facilities in accordance with
recommendations of the health study financed under the
Gorgol Engineering Credit, in order to prevent propagation of
waterborne diseases (para. 54);
(f) Government will implement a price policy that eliminates
consumer rice price subsidies, thus allowing the establishmcnt
of prices ensuring sufficient incentives to farmers (para.
57);
(g) before completion of the proposed project, Government will
prepare and implement a national agricultural credit policy,
taking into account experience acquired under the project
(para. 58);
(h) in providing credit to farmers, SONADER will continue to apply
the credit system and policies established for purposes of its
current credit operations, and shall from time to time review
with the Association any necessary modifications required in
view of the experience acquired under the project (para. 58);
(i) in addition to the Association's standard requirements on the
audit of project accounts, the auditors- opinion on the dis-
bursement applications made on the basis of certified state-
ments of expenditures will be submitted to the Association
every six months (para.59).
Special conditions of effectiveness would be that SONADER
establishes GPD and appoints its director with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association (para. 50). In
addition, SONADER would open two accounts in BMDC, the Special
Account and the Operating Account to administer revolving funds
(para. 45). The Government would deposit an initial amount of
US$35,000 in the Operating Account (para. 48). Loans financing
the project jointly with IDA would have to be effective, and
loan and grant agreements financing other project components in
parallel with the IDA Credit would have to be signed.






IBRD 13753R
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GORGOL IRRIGATION PROJECT
-           Project Ama                                                                                                             Q
Paved Roads                                                                                                       C,
Paved Roads under constriotlon                                                                               C,
Gravle Roads                                                                               /
Trncks
-4---.- N Railroads                                                                                      0
*       Airfields
-100-    Annual Rainfall in Milimneters                           i
. nternedonal Boundaries
------  lndicates the Territory of the ftner Spanish                         ----------------------------------
Sahara(Wesftm Sahara)
(CU)  copper                                                                  .                                              >              A LG E R I A
Iron
Date Palros                                                                                                      I
Wharf ~
S~~~~ahel tMALIn",-.t
''. S E N E G A                                                                                                                                    AL I
AGRI)C8°.TU~rALONES                                                                                               .... .
Saharan   Sob   -  Deser ... .                                                        .... .  .
Sahelian         2                                    1~~~~~~~~~~Tdlk
200
Ns   S    ouisHO   jMo00'i
'~~~~~0 ~   ~          ~          0
c'(0       a~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                  .  20010
M        A          L    I
t~ ~ ~ ~~~E                            E         A IodIooIooJoUN1E000                                                                                                      98010






---- ---               Thitw-phC h.ehbotpow.,d by th.                        13'00O'                                                                                                   "0
ALGERIA    Wrd et  (ff t.. hWy13                                                                                                                                          13301
..          the r.,t to whic,Wh tis att'Oh°                                                                            ISLAMIC  REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
r                          T-    -    The -teot,ttetoht .,edh,td th.
. b. - J  i      r -                 t tOnOmpb-.d-thep--tothp                                                          GORGOL  IRRIGATION  PROJECT
Z  i/~~~~~~~~~~~~~d -Fo.p1Y, - M. mveto          . tt ndrlth
SPANISH t- j                                     fot -heo-der,                                          e                                                   Irrigated Area 3600 ha
/  SAHARA   !                  I                                                                                                                          7 , Projected Reservoir
Monguel J__._._I                                                                         Kaedi Pilot Project 700ha
L1>     onePotential Future Irrigated Area 6,500ha
rt   f  M  A  U R  I T A  N I A  j                         /       \                                                                                  00\#l  * W  Possible Future Dam
hN                               i                      /~ho5  I                                                                                     _J  = __     Possible Future Reservoir
.  ONoLt3Wcholt  i  -16-208    /____                                                                                 Main Roads                                                   16'20'-
;   C   P,le~ Locniot  *         /                                                                          ,                           --  I- International Boundaries
SENEGAL N           -    _  _   -J
y    MALI
_  /                        o           r~~~~~~~~Ez  '/XJ''                                                    ,''t<''              ,                   X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I¼I
Z _ r ~~~~~~~~,                                                                p       ~ ,                                           %FunlrGs /  3^ *-1~ *                                    P
\                                                                       I                     '1t'11           \                                        'x'\-' I            '0X,_                    -
LeIeiba                                                                                                                                ---- --
<~~~~ KILOMETER                                      2,0                                                                \,                                   ,,__
S    E  N  E  G  A    L   ' s                                                                                                                   >  -           -   ' KkLVME'Bout                                      F5-
-16-001                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  z \      w~   
12t-30'                                31>                                                           13'00                                                         \                           ti            13-30' *



