OFFICA      CREDIT NUMBER 1068 MAU
Development Credit Agreement
(Gorgol Irrigation Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   NovemI6sv        21.(    , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1068 MAU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  Nove     e   le, 1980, between
TSLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of Parts A (ii) and B (i) through (iii)
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by
extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a
loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
seven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
7,600,000) to assist in financing Parts B (ii) and C of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agreement) between the Borrower
and the Fund;
(C) the Fund has -ppointed the Association as Cooperating
Institution to administer-the Fund Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement and of the Project Agreement referred
to in Recital (J) of this Preamble, and the Association has
accepted such appointment;
(D) the Borrower further has contracted or intends to
contract, from several other institutions and governments, grants
and loans in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to about
sixty-two million dollars ($62,000,000), as listed in Parts
B, C and D of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to assist in financing
the Project, on terms and conditions set forth in agreements
entered into or to be entered into between the Borrower and such
institutions or governments;
(E) the Association, the Fund and the institutions and
governments referred to in Recital (D) of this Preamble intend to
enter into a memorandum of understanding to coordinate the admini-
stration of the financing for the Project to be provided severally
by each of them and regulating certain-other matters of common
interest in connection with such financing;
(F) by a development credit agreement dated June 12, 1974
between the Borrower and the Association, the Association granted


﻿-2-
to the Borrower a development credit (No. S-16 MAU; hereinafter
called the First Credit) in various currencies equivalent to one
million one hundred thousand dollars ($1,100,000) to assist in
financing surveys and studies required for the preparation of the
Project;
(G) the Association is prepared to refund the outstanding
amount of the First Credit out of the proceeds of the Credit
provided for herein;
(H) pursuant to a development credit agreement dated
April 8, 1977, the Association has also extended a further
development credit (No. 694 MAU) to the Borrower for the purpose
of assisting in financing, inter alia, further preparatory work
required for the Project;
(I) the Pi:oject will be carried out by Societe Nationale
pour le Dfveloppement Rural (hereinafter defined as SONADER)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to SONADER the proceeds of the
Credit and of the Fund Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS (J) the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
SONADER;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-3-
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SONADER" means Socift6 Nationale pour le Dfvel-
oppement Rural, an Etablissement Public of the Borrower estab-
lished and operating under Decree No. 75-237 of July 24, 1975
of the Borrower, as amended by Decrees No. 76-036 of February
12, 1976 and No. 78-181 of June 22, 1978 of the Borrower, and as
such Decrees may be further ammended from time to time;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SONADER of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(c) "GPD" means the Gorgol Project Directorate to be estab-
lished within SONADER in accordance with Section 2.01 (b) of the
Project Agreement;
(d) "Special Account" means the account to be opened by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(e) "Operating Account" means the account to be opened by
SONADER pursuant to Section 4.01 (a) of the Project Agreement;
(f) "BMDC" means the Banque Mauritanienne pour le D6vel-
oppement et le Commerce established and operating pursuant
to Law No. 61-030 of January 26, 1961 and Decree No. 74-128
of June 19, 1974 of the Borrower, as such Law and Decree may be
amended from time to time; and
(g) "Fund Loan Account" means the lon account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eleven million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 11,400,000).


﻿-4-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article III of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associ-
ation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installuents payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1990, and ending April 1,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and can-
cellation set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and the
Fund Loan Agreement, the amount of the Credit and the amount of
the Fund Loan may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
Fund Loan Account, respectively, in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit and of the Fund Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such allocation may be modified from time to time
pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agree-
ment between the Borrower, the Association and the Fund.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account


﻿-5-
for expenditures made (or, if the Association and the Fund shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Crplit and the Fund Loan.
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
First Credit withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay
all unpaid charges thereon.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part B (ii) of
the Project, open a Special Account in BMDC or another commercial
bank in its territory acceptable to the Association, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Payments out of the
Special Account shall be made exclusively to pay the reasonable
costs of goods and services required to carry out Part B (ii) of
the Project and to be financed under this Agreement and the Fund
Loan Agreement in accordance with the provisions of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 hereto, but no such payments
shall be made after the Closing Date.
(d) The Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account an initial amount in the
currency of the Borrower equivalent to $21,000 and notify the
Fund to deposit in the Special Account an initial amount in the
currency of the Borrower equivalent to $29,000.    Thereafter, at
the request of the Borrower, the Association shall further so
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special
Account, and notify the Fund to deposit in the Special Account,
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts equal to payments made out of the Special Account for
expenditures for Part B (ii) of the Project eligible for financing
under this Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement, but only to
the extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with any
amount remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of: (1) $50,000; or (ii) in the case of any deposit pursuant to
paragraph (e) of this Section, the sum of $50,000 plus the aggre-
gate amount of any such deposits pursuant to said paragraph.
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine, each such
deposit after the initial deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account, and notified to the Fund


﻿-6-
for withdrawal from the Fund Loan Account, in the same respective
amounts as have been justified by the evidence supporting the
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph (f) of
this Section.
(e) The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower,
further withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account, and notify the Fund to deposit in the Special
Account, such additional amounts in the currency of the Borrower,
not exceeding in the aggregate $700,000 equivalent, as may
be needed to finance goods and services required for Part B (ii)
of the Project to be paid out of the Special Account, if and to
the extent the Borrower and the Association agree that such
deposit is required for carrying out the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency.
(f) Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit
by the Association into the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association in respect of each payment made by the
Borrower out of the Special Account such documents and other
evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing that
the payment was made on account of the reasonable cost of goods or
services required for Part B (ii) of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Fund Loan in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(g) If the Association shall have determined that any
payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal
from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account, or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph (f) of
this Section, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association and, unless otherwise determined by the Association,
prior to any further deposit in the Special Account by the Asso-
ciation or the Fund, deposit in the Special Account an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this
Section.
(h) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (d) and (e)
of this Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall
be made by the Association or the Fund if the Association shall
have notified the Borrower that it has determined that all further
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Fund Loan Account can
be made directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account and the
Fund Loan Account under paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿-7-
(i) If the Association shall not have received, within
ninety days after the Closing Date or within ninety days of the
date of a notification as referred to in paragraph (h) of this
Section, whichever date shall be the earlier, the evidence re-
qui,red pursuant to paragraph (f) of this Section in respect of any
amount deposited in the Special Account in accordance with the
provisions of this Section, or if any amount is to be paid by the
Borrower after the Closing Date or the date of such notification
pursuant to paragraph (g) of this Section, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, repay to the Associa-
tion and the Fund, in the ratio of their respective total deposits
in the Special Account, the equivalent of such amount, as of the
date of such notice, in the currency specified in Section 2.07 of
this Agreement (or the currency designated or selected instead
thereof pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions); any such repayment to the Association shall
be credited to the Credit Account.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Association a written application in such form and
containing such statements and agreements as the Association or
the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal,
with the necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall,
except as the Borrower, the Association and the Fund shall other-
wise agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as the
Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before
or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Association or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account the
amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from
the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account and the funds to


﻿-8-
be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be apportioned
by the Association, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances,
between the Credit and the Fund Loan in the ratio of the respec-
tive amounts of the Credit and of the Fund Loan allocated to the
Category in which the goods or services in respect of which a
withdrawal is requested are included in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, or such other ratio as shall be
agreed between the Association and the Fund; provided, however,
that, if such application shall be made in respect of expenditures
that are to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the
Fund Loan only, such application shall be deemed to be a request
to withdraw funds from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account
only.
Section 3.05. When the Association shall have approved
an application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall:
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account
to or on the order of the Borrower in accordance
with the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement; and/or
(ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has received
an application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan
Account in the aggregate amount specified in
such notice, that it has approved payment of the
portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in the amount set forth in such notice, and
that the portion to be withdrawn from the Fund Loan
Account in the amount set forth in such notice is
eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Credit or the
Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled, applica-
tions by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be deemed to
be requested for withdrawal of the full amount applied for -from
the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account only, and the provi-
sions of this Article III except for Section 3.04 hereof shall
continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount credited
or to be credited to such Account shall have been withdrawn or
cancelled.


﻿-9-
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
the Association may, on behalf and for the account of the Fund,
entei into special commitments to pay amounts, out of the proceeds
of the Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect of the cost
of goods required by the Project, subject to the provisions of
this Agreement concerning the allocation and apportionment of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has advised the Association
that any such special commitment shall, once it has been notified
to the Fund, constitute an obligation on the part of the Fund to
pay, notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation of
the Fund Loan, the amount to be disbursed out of the proceeds of
the Fund Loan in fulfillment of such special commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or of the Fund Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.09. SONADER is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or permit-
ted to be taken under the provisions of Article III of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTCLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause SONADER to perform in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable SONADER to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Fund Loan available to SONADER on a grant basis.
Section 4.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the


﻿- 10 -
Borrower shall deposit in the Operating Account: (a) an initial
amount equivalent to at least $35,000 to meet expenditures
for the Project to be paid out of the Operating Account; and (b)
thereafter, not later than January 31 of each year until comple-
tion of the Project, such additional amounts as shall be required
to ensure the timely availability of sufficient liquid funds for
financing such expenditures during such year pending the reim-
bursement thereof out of the proceeds of the grants and loans made
to the Borrower to finance such expenditures. The aggregate
amount of the funds furnished by the Borrower to SONADER pursuant
to this Section shall be reimbursed to the Borrower as provided in
paragraph (b) (i) of Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain, in accordance with
sound engineering practices, the M'Bout - Kiffa road, or any
alternative access road to the Project area, to a standard ade-
quate to permit all season traffic and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, services, facilities and other resources
required for this purpose.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources, including
qualified teaching and health care staff in sufficient number,
required for the efficient operation and adequate maintenance of
the social infrastructure facilities to be constructed under Part
B (v) of the Project.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall set paddy and rice prices at
a level adequate to ensure sufficient incentives to farmers in the
development area to be established under the Project and the
recovery by SONADER of the cost of operating and maintaining the
Project facilities. To this end, the Borrower shall in particu-
lar: (i) periodically adjust the producer price for paddy as
required for the purpose stated above; and (ii) gradually elimi-
nate, over a period not extending beyond 1984, the subsidy of the
consumer price of rice.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall prepare and thereafter
implement, before completion of the Project, a national agricul-
tural credit policy taking into account the experience of SONADER
in this matter under the Project.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to ensure that SONADER receives, as and when due, the payments
from farmers referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) of Section 4.01 of
the Project Agreement, and undertakes to provide or cause to be
provided to SONADER, promptly as needed, the amounts required to
meet any shortfall in the funds available to SONADER in the
Operating Account to cover its annual budget for the operation of
the Project facilities and the provision of credit and services to
farmers in the Project area.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) SONADER shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of SONADER under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that SONADER will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) Any of the Borrower's Decrees referred to in Section
1.02 (a) of this Agreement, or any provision of such Decrees,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
In such a way as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
SONADER to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set
forth in the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SONADER or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the proceeds of any loan or grant listed in
Part C of Schedule 3 to this Agreement shall
not become available for disbursement, in
accordance with the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, as and when needed for the
due and diligent execution of the Project;
or


﻿- 12 -
(B) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project,
including grants and loans listed in Schedule
3 to this Agreement, shall have been sus-
pended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor; or
(C) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if:
(A) such delay in the availability of funds,
suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and SONADER; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e)
(i) (C) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:


﻿- 13 -
(a) GPD has been established and its Director has been
appointed, all in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01
(b) and paragraph (b) (i) of Section 3.01, respectively, of the
Project Agreement.
(b) The Special. Account has been opened as provided in
Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement.
(c) The Operating Account has been opened as provided in
Section 4.01 (a) of the Project Agreement and the initial amount
specified in Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement has been deposited
therein.
(d) The execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower
of the agreements providing for the loans and grants listed in
Parts A and B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action and
all other conditions (if any) precedent to the effectiveness of,
or initial disbursements under, said agreements, other than ful-
fillment of the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been satisfied.
(e) Agreements providing for loans and grants as listed in
Part C of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been duly executed.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized by SONADER, and is legally binding upon
SONADER in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date 75;mor      2.1 19I is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section l2.0Z of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article V
of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section
6.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 7.05. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have
come into force and effect and the Development Credit Agreement
shall have failed to come into force and effect by the date
specified in Section 7.03 of this Agreement or a later date


﻿- 14-
established by the Association for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions, or (ii) the entire principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn from the CreOlt Account and all charges which
shall have accrued on the Credit ohall have been paid before the
Fund Loan Agreement shall have terminated, then, notwithstanding
the provisions of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 of the General Condi-
tions, the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be, or
to remain, in force and effect but only to the extent required for
the purpose of implementing the Fund Loan Agreement and of orderly
settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties there-
under, subject to such modifications of the Development Credit
Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the Association
and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.06. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall have terminated, or (ii) the Association shall notify
the Borrower that its appointment as Cooperating Institution under
the Fund Loan Agreement has terminated, the provisions of this
Agreement shall, to the extent that they relate to the Fund Loan,
forthwith terminate; provided, however, that-in respect of para-
graph (ii) above, such termination shall apply only to the respon-
sibilities of the Association as the Cooperating Institution.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de l'Economie
et des Finances
B. P. 238
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Cable address:                          Telex:
MINIPLAN                               MPDI 540 MTN
Nouakchott


﻿- 15 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                              440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By//     o.re      I   to.~    cit    C
Akl w-j 4    Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Fund Loan,
the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and of the Fund Loan
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of   Amount of the
the Credit    Fund Loan
Allocated     Allocated        % of
(Expressed in SDR       Expenditures
Category              Equivalent)          to be financed
(1) Civil works under      6,460,000      nil       32%
Parts A (ii) and
B (i) and (iii)
of the Project
(2) Force account          2,430,000    3,300,000   100%
works under
Part B (ii) of
the Project
(3) Services of              nil          760,000   100%
selected special-
ists for Part C
of the Project,
as agreed between
the Borrower, the
Association, the
Fund and SONADER
(4) Operating expendi-       nil        2,270,000   34%
tures (including
salaries of GPD
staff, fuel, ferti-
lizer, pesticides
and other agri-
cultural inputs)
under Part C of
the Project


﻿- 17 -
Amount of   Amount of the
the Credit    Fund Loan
Allocated     Allocated         % of
(Expressed in SDR        Expenditures
Category              Equivalent)          to be financed
(5) Advances under          243,000       330,000
Section 3.02 (d)
or (e) of this
Agreement to pre-
finance items
under Category
(2) above
(6) Refunding of            380,000         nil     Amount
First Credit                                   outstanding
(7) Unallocated           1,887,000       940,000
TOTAL        11,400,000     7,600,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association and the Fund that no
proceeds of the Credit or of the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufac-
ture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of
any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or of the Fund Loan decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association and the Fund.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement or the date of the Fund
Loan Agreement, whichever shall be the later.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or of the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in


﻿- 18 -
the table in paragraph 1 above, and without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, if the Association
has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit or of the
Fund Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the esti-
mated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or of the Fund Loan
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, provided, however, that no such reallocation of proceeds of
the Fund Loan shall be made to Categories (1) or (6); and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or of the Fund Loan and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power
or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit Agree-
ment or of the Fund under the Fund Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and/or the Fund
Loan as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or
the Fund Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to provide gravity irrigation and
agricultural development of a gross area of about 4,200 ha located
in the Gorgol Noir Valley between Zreij and Mount Oua-Oua, about
75 km east of Kaedi. The Project consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:   Dam and Conveyance Works
(i) Construction of a dam on the Gorgol Noir River at
Foum-Gleita in the Oua-Oua Mounts to create a reservoir
with a storage capacity of about 500 million m3,
including intake and outlet works.
(ii) Construction of:
(a) a main conveyance canal of about 3.6 km downstream
from the Foum-Gleita dam on the left bank of the
Gor2ol Noir River, with a capacity of about
l0m- /sec;
(b) a left bank conveyance   canal of about 3 km down-
stream from the end of the main conveyance canal,
with a capacity of about 7m3/sec; and
(c) a right bank conveyance canal of about 1.9 km
downstream from the end of the main conveyance
canal, with a capacity of about 3m3/sec, in-
cluding a canal bridge to cross the Gorgol Noir
River.
Part B:   Development Area
Development of a gross area of about 4,200 ha, including net
irrigated areas of about 2,480 ha on the left bank and about 1,140
ia on the right bank of the Gorgol Noir River, for irrigated rice,
maize, sorghum and vegetable cultivation through:
(i) Construction of gravity irrigation and surface drainage
networks, including two primary irrigation canals, main
drains and secondary canals and drains.


﻿- 20 -
(ii) Construction of tertiary canals and drains and land
clearing, levelling and on-farm development of about
3,620 ha to be irrigated.
(iii) Construction of:
(a) a primary road network totalling about 40 km,
including roads along the conveyance and primary
canals, a traverse road with a bridge across the
Gorgol Noir River and a road link to M'Bout;
and
(b) a secondary*road network totalling about 140 km to
provide access to each irrigation unit.
(iv) Construction and equipping of offices for GPD, staff
housing, a workshop, hangars, storehouses and a rice
mill with a capacity of 5 t/h.
(v) Construction and equipping of social infrastructure
for 15 new villages to be established in the development
area, including wells, schools, market sheds and health
centers.
(vi) Provision of agricultural and transport equipment and of
vehicles for the operation of the facilities included in
Parts A and B (i) through (v) of the Project.
Part C:   Settlement and Agricultural Development
(i) Initial operation and maintenance of the facilities
included in Parts A and B of the Project.
(ii) Settlement of about 4,640 farm families in the develop-
ment area to be established under Part B of the Project.
(iii) Provision, on credit, of soil preparation services and
inputs to such farm families, including seeds, ferti-
lizer and pesticides.
(iv) Provision of extension and marketing services to such
farm families.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1986.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Co-financing Arrangements for the Project
Amounts                Parts of
(in millions)             the
in Currency  in dollars       Project
Co-financing            Unit of        equiva-        to be
Institutions*           Grant/Loan     lent           Financed
A.   Fund               SDR 7.6           10          B (ii), C
(including
technical
assistance)
B.   IDB                                   6          A (ii), B
(i) and
(iii)
Libya                                10          A (ii), B
(i) and
(iii)
through
(vi), C
SFD                SR 33.5           10          A (ii), B
(i) and
(iii) (in-
cluding
consultants'
.services for
supervision
of construc-
tion)
*    Abbreviations have the following meanings:
Fund:     International Fund for Agricultural Development
IDB:      Islamic Development Bank
Libya:    Government of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya
SFD:      Saudi Fund for Development


﻿- 22 -
Amounts                Parts of
(in millions)             the
in Currency  in dollars       Project
Co-financing             Unit of        equiva-        to be
Institutions*            Grant/Loan     lent           Financed
C.   ADFAED              U.A.E.Dh 24      6.4          B (iv),
(v) and
(vi)
FAC                                  5.4          C (tech-
nical
assistance)
FED                 E.U.A. 9.385    13.2          A (i) (in-
cluding
consul-
tants'ser-
vices for
supervision
of constru-
tion)
KfW                 DM 16            8.5          A (i) (in-
cluding
consul-
tants'
services
for super-
vision of
construc-
tion), C
(technical
assistance)
*    Abbreviations have the following meanings:
ADFAED:   Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development
FAC:      Fonds d'Aide et de Coopgration of the Republic of France
FED:      Fonds Europ6en de Dgveloppement of the European Economic
Community
KfW:      Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau of the Federal Republic
of Germany


﻿- 23 -
Amounts                Parts of
(in millions)             the
ir. Currency  in dollars      Project
Co-financing             Unit of        equiva-        to be
Institutions*            Grant/Loan     lent           Financed
D.   FED                                  2.8          A (ii), B
(i) and
(iii)
TOTAL             72.3
*    Abbreviations have the following meanings:
ADFAED:   Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development
FAC:      Fonds d'Aide et de Coopgration of the Republic of France
FED:      Fonds Europeen de D6veloppement of the European Economic
Community
KfW:      Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau of the Federal Republic
of Germany


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association,
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    2L      day of
198 iL.
FOR SECRETARY


