CREDIT NUMBER 1068 MAU
Project Agreement
(Gorgol Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1068 MAU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  cqverorv-   ' .L          , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and SOCIETE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
(hereinafter called SONADER).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between Islamic Republic of Mauritania (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eleven million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,400,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that SONADER agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a
loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
seven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 7,600,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
Fund Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the Fund has appointed the Association as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement and of the Development Credit Agree-
ment, and the Association has accepted such appointmen't;
(D) the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement and of the Fund Loan will be made
available to SONADER on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS SONADER, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in


﻿-2-
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SONADER shall carry out the Project des-
cribed in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement through
GPD, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, agricultural, economic, financial and
engineering practices.
(b) For purposes of carrying out and operating the Project,
SONADER shall create and thereafter maintain a Gorgol Project
Directorate (GPD) within SONADER with a separate budget and
accounts; the responsibilities and organization of said Director-
ate shall be established by SONADER in consultation with the
Association.
Section 2.02. In order to assist GPD in carrying out the
Project, SONADER shall employ specialists and consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, as provided in Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SONADER undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or of the Fund
Loan made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by SONADER to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, SONADER
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or of the Fund Loan made available to it by the Bor-
rower to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. (a) SONADER shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction, work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) SONADER: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or of the Fund Loan, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's and the Fund's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tiDn sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or of the Fund Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Fund Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds, includ-
ing, without limitation to the foregoing and until completion of
the Project, quarterly progress reports on the execution and
operation of the Project.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between SONADER
and the Association, SONADER shall prepare and furnish to the
Association and the Fund a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
SONADER and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit and the Fund Loan.
(d) SONADER shall enable the Association's and the Fund's
accredited representatives to examine all plants, installations,
sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of SONADER and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. (a) SONADER shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the


﻿-4-
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit and the Fund Loan.
(b) SONADER shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit or the Fund Loan, or the performance by SONADER of its
obligations under this Agreement.
-Section 2.07. In providing credit to farmers under Part C
(iii) of the Project, SONADER shall continue to apply the
practices and policies established for purposes of its current
credit operations and shall from time to time review with the
Association and the Fund any modifications of such practices and
policies required in view of the experience acquired under said
Part of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SONADER
Section 3.01. (a) SONADER shall at all times carry on its
operations, manage its affairs, plan its future development and
maintain its financial position in accordance with appropriate
economic, financial, commercial, administrative, agricultural
and engineering practices, and under an experienced and qualified
management assisted by competent staff in adequate number.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon SONADER's obliga-
tions under paragraph (a) of this Section, SONADER shall:
(i) employ a Director of GPD whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion; and
(ii) operate and maintain its equipment, machinery,
water storage and irrigation works and other
facilities, and make all necessary repairs thereof,
in accordance with appropriate agricultural,
engineering and management practices.
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon SONADER's obliga-
tions under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, SONADER shall,
under arrangements satisfactory to the Association, cause the dam


﻿-5-
and related intake/outlet structures constructed under Part A of
the Project to be periodically inspected in accordance with sound
engineering practice in order to determine whether there are any
deficiencies in the condition of such dF.m and structures or in the
quality and adequacy of maintenance .3r methods of operation of
such dam and structures which may endanger their safety. To this
end, SONADER shall: (i) propose to the Association appropriate
arrangements for such inspections for the Association's review no
later than one year before the expected completion of said facil-
ities; and (ii) furnish to the Association, at least once every
year, a report on the structural behavior of such facilities
prepared in accordance with sound engineering practice.
Section 3.02. SONADER shall take out and maintain with
re5ponsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. SONADER shall operate the facilities included
in the Project in accordance with the recommendations of the
health study financed under the First Credit in order to prevent
the propagation of waterborne diseases due to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. For the purpose of carrying out and thereafter
operating the Project, SONADER shall:
(a) open and thereafter maintain, in BMDC or another bank in
the Borrower's territory acceptable to the Association and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, an account
(the Operating Account) in the name of GPD to be used exclusively
by GPD for meeting expenditures under Part C of the Project
and, after its completion, the operation of the Project facilities
and the further provision of credit and services to farmers in the
Project area; and
(b) deposit or cause to be deposited in the Operating
Account: (i) any amount of the proceeds of any loan or grant made
for the financing of the Project (including those listed in
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement) which shall be
withdrawn to reimburse SONADER for expenditures paid out of the
Operating Account; provided, however, that at the completion of


﻿-6-
the Project the aggregate amount provided by the Borrower to
SONADER pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall be reimbursed directly to the Borrower; (ii) all
receipts from farmers in the Project area for the payment of
services provided by SONADER (including the water charges referred
to in Section 4.04 of this Agreement and repayments of credit made
available to such farmers by SONADER as well as interest and other
charges on such credit); and (iii) all receipts from sales of
rice, paddy or other produce from the Project area by SONADER.
Section 4.02. (a) SONADER shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including separate accounts reflecting the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project (the Project Accounts).
(b) SONADER shall, until one year after the Closing Date,
retain all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures for the Project on account
of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account or the
Fund Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure, and
shall enable the Association's and the Fund's accredited repre-
sentatives to inspect such records.
Section 4.03. (a) SONADER shall: (i) have its accounts,
including the Project Accounts, and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association and
the Fund as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements, including separate financial statements
of the Project Accounts, for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts, including the Project Accounts, and financial
statements of SONADER and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Section, SONADER shall furnish to the
Association and the Fund, not later than three months after the
end of each half year until the Closing Date, an opinion by the


﻿-7-
auditors referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this Section: (i) in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in Section
4.02 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit and of the Fund Loan made available to SONADER and with-
drawn from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account during
such half year on the basis of certificates of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (ii)
on the justification and records in respect of any other expendi-
tures financed through cash withdrawals from the Special Account
or the Operating Account during such half year.
Section 4.04. SONADER shall collect water charges from
farmers using irrigation water from the Project facilities at a
level sufficient to cover: (i) the cost of maintaining all facili-
ties constructed under Parts A (ii) and B of the Project; (ii)
salaries and wages of GPD staff operating such facilities; and
(iii) ten percent (10%) of other operating expenditures of GPD.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which either the Development Credit
Agreement or the Fund Loan Agreement becomes effective, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SONADER thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the earliest date on which both the Development
Credit Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement shall
have terminated in accordance with their respective
terms; or
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Develop6ent Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SONADER of this event.


﻿-8-
(c) If either the Development Credit Agreement or the
Fund Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section and the
other Agreement remains in force, all obligations under this
Project Agreement of SONADER and of the lender under that other
Agreement shall remain in force.
(d) If the Association shall notify SONADER that its
appointment as Cooperating Institution under the Fund Loan Agree-
ment has terminated, all references in this Agreement to the Fund,
to the Fund Loan, to the Fund Loan Account and to the Fund Loan
Agreement shall be deemed to be deleted; provided, however, that
such deletion shall apply only with respect to the responsibili-
ties of the Association as the Cooperating Institution.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties .contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
For SONADER:
Societ6 Nationale pour
le Developpement Rural
B.P. 321
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Cable address:                        Telex:
SONADER                              807 MTN
Nouakchott
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement or under Section 3.09 of the Development Credit
Agreement on behalf of or by SONADER may be taken or executed by
its Director General or such other person or persons as the
Director General of SONADER shall designate in writing, and
SONADER shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /      4tVe.-e   J-   I~ &  e:*- PC-J;lge.
A  *4      Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
By/Au Athoerize                  Repre sent
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, goods and
civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits' published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, SONADER shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. SONADER shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   To the extent feasible, contracts for the purchase of ferti-
lizer and pesticides shall be grouped for purposes of bidding so
as to permit bulk procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 11 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $50,000 each may be procured on the basis
of local procedures acceptable to the Association.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts, with respect to all contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, SONADER shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, SONADER
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform SONADER
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account
in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, SONADER shall furnish to the Association, promptly


﻿- 12 -
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform SONADER and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, SONADER shall inform the
Association .of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform SONADER
and state the reasons for its determination.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works under Part B (ii) of the Project (including land
clearing and on-farm works) may be carried out by force account
through GPD.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Technical Assistance
(Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement)
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, SONADER
shall employ the following specialists and consultants:
A.   Specialists
1.   1 agro-economist as Assistant Director of GPD;
2.   1 agronomist as Assistant Director of GPD's production
department;
3.   1 irrigation engineer as Assistant Director of GPD's
works department;
4.   2 agronomists and 1 sociologist for GPD's production
department;
5.   2 mechanical engineers, 1 for the rice mill and 1 for
the workshop to be constructed under Part B (iv) of the
Project; and
6.   1 accountant for GPD's administrative department.
B.   Consulting Services
1.   Engineering consultants to assist in the supervision of
the construction of Parts A and B of the Project.
2.   Short-term consultants to assist in the carrying out of
Part C of the Project.
3.   Short-term consultants as required to meet SONADER's
obligations under Section 3.01 (c) of the Project
Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the     LA/    day of JIL,
198 LL.
FOR SECRETARY


