Report No. PID5984
Project Name              Mexico-Health System Reform--IMSS Adjustment Loan
Region                           Latin America and the Carribean
Sector                           Human Development
Project ID                       MXPE7720
Borrower                         BANOBRAS, S.N.C.
Guarantor                        United Mexican States
Implementing Agency              Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS)
Eduardo Gonzalez, Ph.D.
Melchor Ocampo 479, 7 Piso
Col. Nueva Anzures
Distrito Federal, Mexico
Telephone: (525) 727-2824
Fax: (525) 625-1226
Date This PID Prepared           January 26, 1998
Appraisal Date                   January 26, 1998
Projected Board Date             April 7, 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      While Mexico's health indicators have improved markedly over
the last 50 years, its population is aging rapidly. In 1970, 47
percent of Mexicans were under 15; in 1990 the figure was 39 percent
and, in the year 2000, it is expected to be 35 percent. Over the
same period, the proportion of Mexicans over 60 is expected to have
risen from 5 percent to 7 percent and, by the year 2020, to reach 12
percent. While this is a fairly universal phenomenon, it has
important implications for health delivery, expenditures and
insurance-based financing. Due to strong economic and regional
inequalities, Mexico also combines two epidemiological situations:
while the northern states have health indicators similar to OECD
countries, urban slums, rural areas and the southern states are
still subject to a pattern of common infectious diseases and
malnutrition typical of low-income countries. Mexico's achievements
in the health sector over the past several decades have led to
significant improvements in the health status of the population, a
broadening of access to basic services, and support of important
public health measures. But its health sector faces major
structural problems, as measured by financial access to health care,
efficiency and, increasingly, total cost.
2.      Following extensive consultations and deliberations with all
segments of society, the Social Insurance Law (SIL) was passed in
December 1995, formalizing major policy changes in both pensions and
health. The most important provisions in the SIL affecting the
health sector include: (a) shifting a major financial burden from
payroll taxes to Government financing through general revenues; (b)
introducing greater consumer choice in the selection of providers



(e.g., primary care physicians, secondary hospitals, etc.) and,
gradually, of Managed Care Organizations (MCOs); and (c) increasing
coverage of the social security system to the self-employed and
informal sector workers through a publicly subsidized insurance scheme.
Program Objectives
3.      This operation has the broad objective of supporting the design
and implementation of major policy changes in the health sector in
Mexico, mainly through reforms in the Mexico Social Security
Institute (IMSS), which covers approximately 36 million people and
accounts for about 66 percent of public health expenditures. For
the short- to medium-term, these policy changes aim to: (a) improve
the financial management of the health insurance system to ensure
financial transparency, introduce new resource allocation
mechanisms, and limit the fiscal impact of the proposed reforms; (b)
strengthen the institutional and regulatory framework for health
insurance to extend coverage to the self-employed and informal
sector workers, ensure greater transparency and accountability among
providers, develop measures for quality assurance and consumer
rights, and promote consumer choice; and (c) improve the quality and
efficiency of the IMSS health delivery system by supporting the
decentralization of decision-making, restructuring of the health
care delivery network around a population-based system, and the
introduction of performance-based incentives for providers.
Program Description
4.      The reform program for the period 1998-2000 to be supported by
the loan would follow a two-pronged approach: (a) developing and
implementing health insurance financing reforms and the necessary
regulatory framework through (i) separating financing from provision
of services, (ii) increasing consumer choice and extending coverage,
and (iii) developing and implementing purchasing mechanisms; and (b)
institutional strengthening of IMSS through (i) changing its
corporate structure and (ii) strengthening its health care delivery
network. Bank assistance would consist of this adjustment operation
to help finance the costs of the reform and of a parallel Technical
Assistance Loan (TAL).
Program Financing
5.      The loan of US$750 million will be disbursed in two tranches,
first upon effectiveness--projected to be in May 1998, then upon
compliance with conditions of second tranche release--projected for
January 2000.
Program Implementation
6.      The loan would be implemented by IMSS through a PCU, assisted
by consultants financed under the parallel TAL. The PCU, which will
be integrated within the regular structure of IMSS, will be in
charge of overall coordination and reporting, technical and
logistical support to IMSS' Regional Offices and Medical Zones,
supervision and auditing, and monitoring and evaluation of the
-2 -



project. Oversight of the broad reform program would be the
responsibility of a committee within IMSS composed of
representatives from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health,
IMSS, and other governmental agencies.
Program Sustainability
7.      The SIL shifts a major burden of financing public health
expenditures from payroll taxes to general revenue taxes mainly with
the objective of encouraging growth in formal employment.
Correspondingly, the Government's obligation to fund health
expenditures of IMSS members increased significantly, from .07
percent of GDP to an estimated .5 percent of GDP by the year 2000.
Nevertheless, the burden of Government contributions to health
insurance as a share of non-financial public sector expenditures--
which increased from 0.3 percent to an estimated 3 percent--is still
considerably lower than in other LAC countries.
8.      The reform program is designed to bring systemic changes to
help contain long-term fiscal costs and thus enhance sustainability:
(a) the projected increase in the tax base due to the expansion of
formal sector employment should lead to an increase in total
government revenue; (b) greater transparency in the management of
financial reserves would prompt IMSS to tackle demographic and
epidemiological transition issues sooner rather than later at lesser
overall cost, and would help control the open-ended liability of
public health care expenditures; and (c) new regulations and
instruments will help contain health insurance costs and raise
efficiency through the promotion of gradual competition both within
IMSS and from the private sector.
9.      The program was designed by the Ministry of Finance and IMSS in
a prudent manner to have a neutral or slightly positive overall
effect on government revenues in the long-run, offsetting higher
immediate outlays with increased tax collections in the future.
Lessons Learned
10.     The reform concept and process supported by the project are of
a long-term nature and politically and institutionally involved.
Nations that have followed reform principles similar to those
proposed include Germany, the Netherlands, Israel and, more
recently, Russia, as well as Latin American nations supported by the
Bank, including Chile, Costa Rica, and Argentina. All have evolved
from employer-based insurance schemes. The key lesson learned from
the unfolding collective experience is that no two systems are alike
and therefore each system must be carefully considered on its own
merits. Nevertheless, the following universal lessons which are
critical to the loan can be identified:
-- The need for political will and leadership. This has been
demonstrated by the Government and IMSS in their reform initiative
and their active participation and ownership in the choice of key
project alternatives.
-3-



-- Flexibility. Because of the nature of the reform process, it is
not possible to anticipate all issues which will arise. The
operation must therefore make room for a fair amount of flexibility,
supported by pilot activities and robust, timely evaluation.
-- Cost of transition. Even rich nations tend to allocate resources
toward reform design, and not toward its implementation. This is
often a key obstacle to reform, unwittingly reenforcing innate
political and institutional opposition.
Program Benefits
11.     The reform would contribute to the economy and society by:    (a)
reducing the fiscal burden of the current health system and its
concomitant potential distortions, while improving its financial
sustainability; (b) improving the system's efficiency; (c)
providing incentives for private sector participation; (d) raising
the quality of care; and (e) increasing its contribution to equity.
The reform would ultimately contribute to greater welfare and
productivity, based on improved health status and satisfaction with
the system.
Program Risks
12.     Support within the current Government for the reform is strong,
but such support needs to be sustained. It will also be necessary
to continue to internalize the reform within the IMSS in order to
ensure that personnel at all levels understand the reform objectives
and support it. A second risk is the difficulties that may arise
within IMSS, both institutionally and politically, in the
decentralization of health services. Continued centralized
decision-making, budgeting and purchasing will inhibit efficiency
improvement and competition. A third risk is possible delays in the
approval and implementation of key norms and resolutions (i.e.,
capitation formulas, guidelines for Medical Zone operations,
guidelines for opting-in and opting-out).
13.     To overcome these risks, the TAL has been carefully designed to
provide the necessary inputs to help IMSS carry out its reform,
through, e.g., direct technical assistance, training programs,
communications campaigns, etc.
Poverty Category
14.     Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
15.     The program does not finance any investment activities and is
proposed to receive an environmental rating of "C". One of the
conditionalities would support the adoption of good environmental
practices through an Operational Manual governing IMSS' investment
program.
Program Objective Categories
-4-



16.     The loan belongs to the category of Economic Management by
helping the Government develop policy and tools to limit the fiscal
impact of health finance reform and stimulate growth in the formal
employment sector. The loan will also have long-term effects in
Private Sector Development by opening avenues for private sector
competition in the delivery of publicly financed health services.
Poverty Alleviation would also be supported through the extension of
social security coverage to informal sector workers and the self-employed.
Contact Point            The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 6, 1998.
- 5 -



