Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7223-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM - IMSS
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$700 MILLION
TO BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
May 18, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Peso (P$)
US$1.00 = P$8.4 Pesos (May 1998)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS            Banco Nacional de -Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
APL                 Adjustable Program Loan
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
DDF                 Health Department of the Federal District
DRGs                Diagnosis-related groups
EAP                 Economically Active Population
FONASA              Chilean National Health Insurance Fund
FUNSALUD            Mexican Health Foundation
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GOM                 Government of Mexico
HMO                 HealtiL Maintenance Organization
IDF                 Innovative Development Fund
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
IMSS                Mexican Social Security Institute for Private Sector
Employees
IMSS/Solidaridad    Special Basic Health Program for the Uninsured
ISSFAM              Institute of Social Security for the Armed Forces
ISSSTE              Social Security Institute for Public Employees
IVRO                Voluntary affiliation to IMSS insurance
M&E                 Monitoring & Evaluation
MAU                 Medical Area Unit
MCO                 Managed Care Organization
OECD                Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
PEMEX               National Mexico Petroleum Company
RJP                 Regimen de Jubilaciones y Pensiones: Complementary pension
plan for IMSS workers
SECODAM             Ministry of Comptrollership and Administrative
Development
SEyM                IMSS Health and Maternity Insurance
SH                  Specialty Hospitals
SHCP                Ministry of Finance
SSA                 Secretariat of Health
SSFAM               Family Health Insurance Program
SSHF                Social Security Health Fund
SSL                 Social Security Law
TAL                 Technical Assistance Loan
Vice President  Shahid Javed Burki
Director    Olivier Lafourcade (LCC1C)
Director    Xavier Coll (LCSHD)
IBRD Team    Carmen Hamann, Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine (LCSHD, Team Leaders);
James Cercone, (Consultant); Vinh Nguyen (LCSHD); Ferenc Molnar (LEGLA);
Dov Chernichovsky. KPMG Consultants, Norma Leyva, Pablo Gottret (Consultants)
Carren ViWlaril, Gizella Diaz, Maria Colchao, Patricia Romero-Casco (Task Assistants)
Peer Reviewers  Jeffrey Hammer (DECRG) and Robert Hecht (HDNVP)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM - IMSS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. THE ECONOMIC SETTING .....................................................1
A. Macroeconomic Performance .....................................................1
B. Social Sector Expenditures .....................................................3
II. THE HEALTH SECTOR .....................................................4
A. Overview .....................................................4
Health Status .....................................................4
Health Financing And Expenditures .....................................................5
Organization, Coverage, And Delivery Of Health Services .....................................................6
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S HEALTH  SYSTEM  REFORM  STRATEGY .............................................9
A. Achievements To Date -  The Reform  Framework .....................................................9
SSA Reform ....................................................                                                            10
The 1995 Social Security Law  -  IMSS Reform  ....................................................                         10
B. The Social Security Law  -  Issues And Challenges ....................................................                     13
Limiting the Fiscal Impact ....................................................                                            13
Extending Coverage ....................................................                                                    15
Preparing IMSS for Competition ....................................................                                        16
Development of An Institutional and Regulatory Framework ................................................. 17
C. The Long-Term  View  Of Reform ....................................................                                        18
D. Reform  Implementation  -  IMSS ....................................................                                       18
Developing The Regulatory Framework ....................................................                                   19
Institutional Strengthening of IMSS ....................................................                                   21
Next Phase of the Reform ....................................................                                              22
E. Bank Assistance ....................................................                                                       22
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) ....................................................                                     23
Rationale For Bank Involvement ....................................................                                        25
Justification for Adjustment Lending ....................................................                                  25
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN ....................................................                                                       27
A. Loan Description ....................................................                                                      27
B. Loan Size and Tranche Conditionalities ....................................................                                27
Health Finance and Regulatory Framework ....................................................                               27
Institutional Strengthening of IMSS ....................................................                                   30
C. Technical Assistance ....................................................                                                  32
D. Disbursement and Auditing ....................................................                                             32
E. Lessons Learned ....................................................                                                      33
F. Monitoring And Reporting ....................................................                                              33
G. Program  Objective Categories ....................................................                                         34
H. Impact, Benefits And Risks ....................................................                                            34
V. RECOMMENDATION ....................................................                                                           35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1. Letter of lMSS Health Insurance Development Policy
2. Conceptual Framework and Linkages With TAL
3. Matrix of Policy Actions
4. Health System Reform - The Long-Term View
5. Social Security Health Fund
6. Corporeate Restructuring of IMSS
7. Innovative Development Fund
8. Technical Assistance
9. Financial Projections Model
10. Glossary
11. Documents in the Project File
12. Econormic Indicators
13. Status of Bank Group Operations in Mexico
ii



MEXICO
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM - IMSS
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:           Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C. (BANOBRAS)
Guarantor:          United Mexican States
Implementing Agency: Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS)
Amount:             US$700 million
Terms:              The loan is proposed to be fixed rate single currency loan in US dollars
with a maturity of up to fifteen years.
Objectives:         The proposed loan would support the ongoing implementation of the
Government's health system reform, focusing on the modernization of
IMSS, designed to: (a) improve the financial management of the
health insurance system to ensure financial transparency; (b)
introduce new resource allocation and financial mechanisms to
improve efficiency and limit the fiscal impact of the proposed reforms;
(c) strengthen the institutional and regulatory framework for health
insurance to extend coverage to the self-employed and informal sector
workers; (d) ensure greater transparency and accountability among
providers; (e) develop measures for quality assurance and user rights,
and to facilitate user choice; and (f) improve the quality and efficiency
of the IMSS health delivery system by supporting the decentralization
of decision making, restructuring of the health care delivery network
around a population-based system, and the introduction of
performance-based incentives for providers.
Description:        The reform program for the period 1998-2000 to be supported by the
loan would follow a two-pronged approach: (a) developing and
implementing health insurance financing reforms and the necessary
regulatory framework through (i) separating financing from provision
of services, increasing user choice and extending coverage, and (ii)
developing and implementing purchasing mechanisms; and (b)
institutional strengthening of IMSS through (i) changing its corporate
structure for health services administration and (ii) strengthening its
health care delivery network.
Benefits:           The reform would contribute to the economy and society by: (a)
limiting the fiscal burden of the current health system and its
concomitant potential distortions, while improving its financial
sustainability; (b) improving the system's efficiency and quality of
care; and (c) increasing its contribution to equity. It would ultimately
iii



contribute to greater welfare and productivity, based on improved
extension of coverage and health status. These benefits would be
attained through improved financing and allocation mechanisms,
improved service delivery, and the creation of internal markets, all of
which should lead to greater accountability within the system.
Risks:               The greatest risk to the proposed operation is backsliding in political
commitment. While the current Government supports the reform of
the health insurance system, such support need[s to remain strong,
active and visible to overcome resistance that will inevitably arise in
the course of the reform process, particularly at the time of second
tranche release. High-level officials in both IMSS and the Ministry of
Finance have participated in preparing the reform program and give
political support to the process. It will be necessary to continue to
internalize the reform within IMSS in order to ensure that personnel at
all levels understand the reform objectives and support it. To reduce
opposition to change, competition in the market will be introduced
gradually and will be accompanied by substantial financial and
technical assistance to IMSS.  To mitigate political risks, an
accompanying Technical Assistance Loan will support a major
campaign to disseminate information on program actions and their
benefits to IMSS employees and beneficiaries.
A second risk is the sheer technical complexity of the reform, which
dictates that many complementary activities be executed satisfactorily
and in a highly coordinated fashion. Again, the Technical Assistance
Loan is designed to provide IMSS with important technical input to
support the implementation of the reform, such as the design of
regulations, design of enrollment database system, and direct technical
assistance for institutional reform within IMSS.
Poverty Category:    Not Applicable
Estimated            The proposed loan for US$700 million will be disbursed in two
Disbursement:        tranches of US$350 million each. Tranche releases will take place
assuming the Government meets effectiveness conditions and the
conditionalities related to reform of the IMSS health insurance system,
as described in the Letter of IMSS Health Insurance Development
Policy (Annex 1) and Matrix of Policy Actions (Annex 3).
iv



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM - IMSS ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
Loan to Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C. (BANOBRAS) with the guarantee of
the United Mexican States, in the amount of US$700 million to support regulatory, financial and
corporate reforms of the Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS), as part of Mexico's
continuing process of health system reform. The loan would be a single currency loan at the
Bank's standard fixed rate, with a maturity of up to 15 years, and would be disbursed in two
tranches of US$350 million each. It would further be supported by a parallel US$25 million
Technical Assistance Loan.
1. THE ECONOMIC SETTING
A. Macroeconomic Performance
2.    The Mexican economy rebounded in 1996-97 following the financial crisis at the end of
1994 and the severe recession of 1995 when GDP fell by 6.2 percent and domestic investment
dropped by over 30 percent. In 1996, real GDP rose by 5.1 percent, reflecting continued export
expansion and a strong recovery in investment. The implementation of tight monetary policies
led to a near halving of inflation, a significant lowering of nominal interest rates, and greater
stability of the peso. Investor sentiment improved, leading to a substantial rise in foreign direct
investment, a marked improvement in Mexico's access to international capital markets, and a
substantial increase in international reserves. The economic recovery was consolidated in 1997,
and inflation continued to decline. Real GDP growth reached 7 percent in the year with
another healthy expansion of investment in excess of 20 percent. Through September 1997,
formal sector employment increased by a record 10 percent.
3.    As with other emerging market economies, Mexico also was jolted by the events in
Southeast Asia in the second half of the year. But contagion effects remained relatively small
when compared to the impact on other emerging market economies, such as Argentina and
Brazil. Market sentiment toward Mexico remains cautious and the expectation is that, given
continued positive performance in the United States' economy and in its stock market in
particular, Mexican equities will regain their loss in value, reflecting the strength of the
economic recovery since 1995.
1



2.    As shown in the adjacent                      Mexico: Exports Imports and FDI
chart, Mexico's external accounts  110                     USS$iXbn                  12
have   experienced   a   marked  D05i                                            /
improvement since 1994.  Exports                 ,                                    10
boomed in 1995, prompted by the
large change in the exchange rate
and by the contraction in domestic
demand. These same forces had the   85.t
opposite  impact   on   imports.  80
However, imports recovered rapidly  75         Evorts                                 4
with  the expansion  in  domestic  70                               Note: Epots and irrort otgoods
output and  consumption.   Even  65                                 and servces; bd hand scale.    t 2
though  the  real exchange  rate  60
remains about 12  percent more                    a
depreciated than in November 1994,
it appreciated significantly since 1995, mainly on account of the resumption of capital flows (in
the 3rd qua:rter of 1996 alone, portfolio inflows summed to nearly US$10 billion). The
combination of an appreciating real exchange rate and growing domestic absorption have
produced a trend reversal in the current account, which has shown a negative balance since the
3rd quarter of 1996. In 1997, the deficit in the current account was US$7.3 billion, and is
expected to continue expanding in 1998. Nevertheless, on balance, the levels of the deficit (at
about 2-3 pe-rcent of GDP) and of external borrowing, are prudent and consistent with a solid
long-term creditworthiness position.
3.    Underlying the strong performance of the external accounts and of private sector
growth has been the supportive role of the Government. The operations of the public sector
resulted in an increase in the primary surplus from 2.2 percent of GDP in 1994 to 3.8 percent in
1995-1996, in a context of overall fiscal balance which is expected to prolong into 1997. Despite
declines in government expenditures reflected in transfers to public enterprises, lower
spending on wages and salaries, and a rephasing of some capital projects, expenditure on social
programs was safeguarded. Monetary po]Licy has supported the fiscal stance and has focused
primarily oCL disinflation. Monthly rates of inflation have been on a declining trend since end-
1995 and, as a result, the annual rate of inflation has fallen from 51 percent in 1995 to 28 percent
in 1996 and to less than 16 percent in 1997.
4.    The short- and medium-term prognosis for the conduct of macroeconomic policy, and
for the economy as a whole, is positive. I:n 1998, real growth is expected to slow down to 4.8
percent, in part on account of negative inputs arriving from the Asian issues. The public sector
balance is expected to deteriorate for structural and policy-induced reasons, even as the fiscal
authorities come under increasing political pressure for authorizing expenditure increases
and/or revenue reductions.
5.    Mexico's health system reform program is part of a continuum of reforms addressing
public contingent liabilities while promoting measures !to improve the quality of public
services.  Most importantly, the Government, with the support of the World Bank, has
implemented a major reform in the pension system covering workers in the private sector. The
near-term fiscal cost of this measure is somewhere in the range of 1-2 percent of GDP. The
specific measures relating to the pubLic health system addressed through this loan will impose
an additional fiscal cost of approximately 0.75 to 1 percent of GDP. Furthermore, other quasi-
2



fiscal losses and contingent liabilities were allowed to expand and will require additional fiscal
outlays in the near future. These losses arise mainly from the successive bailouts and/or
rescheduling of the debts held by private banks, firms, households (mortgages and credit card
debt), tollways operators, etc., in the wake of the 1995 financial crisis. The total cost of the
financial sector rescue programs are now estimated at 12 percent of GDP, or a near term
pressure on public finances of another 0.5 percent of GDP.
6.    On the macroeconomic side, the success of its recent performance and the credibility of
its policies have earned Mexico access to international financial markets and thus, the country
does not technically face a short-term funding constraint for its balance of payments
requirements. Nevertheless, with a foreign debt stock of US$163 billion and gross servicing
requirements estimated at US$36 billion in 1998 and US$41 billion in 1999, Mexico has a
complex debt management challenge. In the current internationally volatile environment,
securing reliable long-term debt instruments is an essential part of any viable medium-term
debt management strategy. And Mexico does face restrictions in its access to longer term debt
and/or internationally placed bonds. In this regard, World Bank balance of payments support
is critical especially when, at the margin, the macroeconomic impact of the reforms this loan is
supporting is to expand domestic absorption. Mexico faces a seriously binding fiscal constraint.
Although the Government has carefully measured and balanced its access to domestic capital
markets, domestic interest rates are high in real terms and this complicates the management of
short-term capital inflows. The structure of foreign financing is sub-optimally inclined to
shorter-term funding. The current program of health insurance reforms would exacerbate the
difficulties to be faced by the Government in abiding to the fiscal constraint and, hence, in
managing short-term capital inflows. World Bank balance of payments support would allow
the authorities more room to maneuver while helping safeguard the limits of domestic
borrowing and improve the overall quality of the medium-term fiscal response.
B. Social Sector Expenditures
9.    The  recovery  of the  Mexican
economy has allowed the Government to           Social Expenditure as % of GDP
continue its efforts to increase social
sector spending, with particular emphasis   10
on protecting the poor. Between 1990 and                             Other social exenditure  --
1994, public expenditures in the social      8
sectors increased by more than 55 percent   ;  6=
in  real terms.   As a result, social                                          .
expenditures increased from 6 percent of  4o
GDP in 1990 to 9 percent in 1994 and from1   2
38 percent of total public sector budgeted
expenditures to 52 percent.  The 1994-    o   _
crisis implied a short-term shock to social
expenditures, reducing  them   by  12
percent in real terms in 1995. However,
the share of total budgeted public
expenditures allocated to the social sectors continued to increase -from 52 percent in 1994 to 53
percent in 1995, reflecting the Govermnent's firm commitment to increasing social sector
spending. Expenditures continued to increase in real terms in 1995 and 1996, reaching 8.4
percent of GDP in 1996 and almost fully recovering to the 1993 levels. For 1997, social
3



expenditures; are budgeted to continue increasing to 8.8 percent of GDP and 59 percent of the
total public sector budgeted expenditures - the highest historical share (see chart).
10.   Public expenditures in the social sector allocated to education and health in 1996 are 43
percent and 42 percent, respectively. Expenditures in the health and social security sector
mirrored the changes in social sector expenditures. The 1997 budget signals an increase in
health and social security expenditures of 16 percent in real terms, partly resulting from the
new  social security legislation.  This inicrease would allow health and social security
expenditures, (4 percent of GDP and 44 percent of the total public expenditures in the social
sectors) to surpass, for the first time, the corresponding expenditures in the education sector.
Having secured adequate levels of public funding for the social sectors, the Government has
now turned the focus to improving the efficiency of public spending, while introducing reforms
that aim to improve the quality of public services. The proposed loan would complement
Government strategy to increase the efficiency and quality of public services to obtain greater
value with public resources.
II. THE HIEALTH SECTOR
A. Overview
Health Status
11.   Mexico's health indicators have improved markedly over the last 50 years.  Life
expectancy at birth increased by 30 years between 1940 and 1990, and in 1994 had reached 75
years for women and 69 for men. Mortality rates for children under five years of age fell by
more than 3,7 percent over the last decade, and mortality from pneumonia and diarrhea fell by
more than 65 percent. Vaccine-preventable diseases have declined drastically, with no cases of
polio or diphtheria reported since 1993. Maternal mortality rates were reduced by 44 percent
between 1981) and 1992. Average fertility feli from 4.1 children per women aged 15-44 in 1984
to just 2.9 in 1994. The population growth rate, which peaked at 3.2 percent in the 1970s, had
fallen to 2.1 percent in 1990, and is expected to reach 1.7 percent in the year 2000.
12.   The Mexican population is also aging rapidly. In 1970, 47 percent of Mexicans were
under 15; in 1990 the figure was 39 percent and, in the year 2000, it is expected to be 35 percent.
Over the same period, the proportion of Mexicans over 60 is expected to have risen from 5
percent to 7 percent and, by the year 2020, to reach 12 percent. While this is a fairly universal
phenomenon, it has important implications for health delivery, expenditures and insurance-
based financing.
13.   Due  to  strong  economic  and  regional inequalities, Mexico  combines  two
epidemiological situations: while some areas have health indicators similar to OECD countries,
urban slums, rural areas and some states are still subject to a pattern of common infectious
diseases and malnutrition typical of low-income countries. For example, life expectancy stands
at 53 years among the poor versus 73 yea,rs among the wealthy. Similarly, infant mortality
ranges from under 20 per 1,000 in the northern states to 50 per 1,000 in the poorer southern
states.
14.   Mexico's many achievements in the health sector over the past several decades have led
to significant improvements in the health status of the population, a broadening of access to
basic services, and support of important public health measures. Nevertheless, its health sector
faces major structural problems, as measured by financial access to health care, efficiency and,
4



increasingly, total cost. The following sections provide a brief overview of the organization and
financing of the health sector, followed by a description of the Government's reform efforts to
reduce the structural problems in the sector and to ensure continued improvements in the
health status of the population.
Health Financing And Expenditures
15.    Over the past ten years, the Government has made steady progress in increasing public
health and social security expenditures. In 1996, Mexicans spent between US$16-18 billion on
health care, or 4.7 to 5.3 percent of GDP. On the basis of a population of 93 million in 1996, this
yields an estimated per capita expenditure of US$172194,1 placing Mexico well below its fellow
OECD countries, but in the middle of the range for Latin America.
16.    Overall, the two major social security        Public and Private Health Expenditure in Mexico
institutions, IMSS  and  the  Social Security    Source offinance
Institute  for  Public  Employees  (ISSSTE),
account for nearly 75 percent of public health                              P-W21--
expenditure, the Secretariat of Health (SSA) 21
percent, and the Armed Forces (ISSFAM) and                                       J.
parastatals such as PEMEX  the remaining 4
percent.  However, the adjacent chart shows
that the relatively high private sector spending
(45 percent) lowers the share of social security                       4l%
spending to 43 percent. Other public spending      S. SSA. R  NSAL.Id W-ld 11-k Ert--
from  SSA, IMSS-Solidaridad  (Special Basic
Health Program for the Uninsured) and others
account for around 13 percent of total spending.    )istribution qfEixpendnure byprov,der 1994
In terms of the sources of finance, the vast
majority of health spending is funded through              4Y1,
individual contributions, either through out-of-
pocket   payments   or   social   security                                       PIS
contributions.   The remaining health sector
revenues are generated from  employers (28            U   Nbh. S_
percent), the federal government (20 percent)        1(A.           _
and the state governments (3 percent).
S-urc  SSA -cd FI.NSAI UD)
17.    The fragmented system of financiers, payers and providers and the lack of adequate
risk-pooling mechanisms have led to considerable differences in the level of spending per
capita among the SSA, IMSS, ISSSTE and other social security systems. In 1996, annual
expenditure per covered person ran from US$21 in IMSS-Solidaridad to US$448 in PEMEX (see
table next page). The table also shows the considerable differences between the health
expenditure levels in the social security system (US$213 average per member) and the public
health system for the uninsured population (US$23 average per person). In 1996, IMSS health
care spending reached US$4.2 billion, or US$114 per beneficiary and US$173 per user. Total
1   World Bank calculations based on IMSS, FUNSALUD data and SHCP Public Accounts for 1996.
2   The calculations are based on a 1996 total insured population of 34.3 million and registered user
population of 24.6 million.
5



IMSS health care spending has increased only 5 percent since 1991, dampened by the effect of
the 1995 crisis when spending fell by 13 percent. The table below shows the total revenue and
expenditure for IMSS from 1991 to 1996, including spending per enrolled beneficiary (including
direct insured and their family members).
19.    The deficit of IMSS health    Expenditure per potential and user population, 1996
insurance was a deciding factor
behind the change in the health                                 Expenditure per     Expenditure
insurance      financing      system         Institution           potential         per user
promulgated  by  the  1995  Social                                population        population
Security Laiw (SSL, see paras. 37-43).  Social Searit Funds     (in100 U da        ( US dollars)
The  table  also  shows  that the    IMSS                            114                173
program's             administrative    ]SSSTE                        58                91
expenditures accounted for roughly    ISSFAM                         216               216
12 percent of total spending, far    PEMEX                           448,              448
above  the  average  of around  2   UinEMi X4red F
percentfor administration of Chile's    SSA                           19                51
national  health  insurance  fund         DDF                         28                38
(FONASA), and above the average   Source: FUNSALUD. El Observatorio de la Salud, 1997
of 11.9 percent for private insurers
in the U.S.3 As a share of total public sector health spending, IMSS health insurance spending
accounts for nearly 33 percent (1.3 percent of GDP). Annex 9 contains a more detailed analysis
of IMSS' current financial situation as a result of the changes in health insurance financing.
IMSS Revenues and Expenditures, 1991 to 1996
(1996 US$ million)
Year Employer- Govt. Other  Total  Health   Other  Admin. Other  Total  Deficit/   pdn
employee                         Care  benefits                         Surplus    efi
1991    3,615     244   113   3,971   3,122    234       382    317   4,054   (83)        104
1992    3,949     270   126   4,345   3,395    243       577    327   4,542   (197)      4121
1993    4,334     286   127   4,747   3,712    267       616    357   4,952   (205)       135
1994    4,993     318   171    5,482   3,954    288      653    397   5,292    190        145
1995    4,031     261   193   4,485   3,323    236       556    437   4,553    (68)       133
1996    3,725     218   162   4,105   3,163    201       458    433   4,256   (151)       114
Source: Inforue de Gestion, IMSS (1997)
Organization, Coverage, And Delivery Of Health Services
20.    Many of the problems of financial access highlighted in the previous section are partly
the result of the existence of parallel vertical delivery system. The duplication of facilities and
the excess capacity in urban areas is a long-standing problem in Mexico that results in
inefficiency and waste. For the most part, the segmentation of the health system is due to the
nature of insurance coverage, with access to the health system guaranteed according to
employment status and employer, rather than through risk-pooling arrangements according to
population or income level.
3   "Admirnistrative Cost of Health Insurance". Woolhandler and Himnnelstein in New England Journal of
Medicine. May 2, 1991.
6



Distribution of Health Sector Coverage, 1995
Insurance Status           Insured                    Uninsured
I
M
Institutional                                               S      No
Coverage                  >                     g        50l; j Access
Coverage                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Soli-
dari-
dad
Population (in millions)   5       39               30           9      10
Higher Income  <                         Lower Income
Source: Poder Ejecutivo Federal (1995)
21.   As shown in the above chart, health care provision remains dominated by the public
sector, with a growing but weakly regulated private sector concentrating in the ambulatory care
market. Recently, two major corporations have announced plans to invest over US$100 million
in Mexico for ambulatory and hospital based care over the next 5 years, signaling the potential
expansion of private provision in Mexico. The public sector institutions providing health
services include a diverse network of social security institutes, including IMSS and parastatals
(e.g., PEMEX), the Secretariat of Health (SSA), IMSS-Solidaridad and the health department of
the Federal District (DDF). The following sections describe the characteristics of the main
players in the health sector.
22.   Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS). IMSS provides health insurance coverage
and services to around 34 million people, comprised mostly of private sector workers and their
families. It is the largest organization within the Mexican health care system, accounting for
about 33 percent of public spending on health care in 1996, and employing approximately
350,000 people, of which about 33 percent are medical doctors (33,900) and nurses (80,237).
IMSS reports that it performs around 700,000 medical procedures and related services per day,
in more than 1,500 provider units, 215 of which are secondary and 41 are Specialty Hospitals.
IMSS not only provides health insurance, but also a variety of additional services, including
Maternity insurance, Workers Compensation insurance, Disability, Old Age Severance, Pension
and Life insurance, and Child Care Centers and Social Benefits.
23.   IMSS has started a process of decentralization through the creation of seven Regional
Directorates, which has resulted in the staff at the Head Office being reduced from over 13,000
to below 11,000 and the development of a significant role in financial accountability and
planning for these Regional Directorates. The consolidation of primary and secondary provider
levels into 139 budgetary Medical Area Units during 1997 has provided a strong platform for
further delegation of management responsibilities and funding, and possibly further reduction
of staff at the central level.
24.   The provision of health services at the primary and secondary care level will be the
responsibility of the Medical Area Units, which will effectively function within IMSS as public
integrated delivery units, taking care of all the health needs of their eligible populations. Over
the medium-term, the IMSS Medical Area Units will evolve into budgetholding organizations,
which will be fully responsible for primary and secondary care for an average population of
7



roughly 260,000 members, and, when necessary, purchase specialist or tertiary level services for
their patients from the 41 IMSS Specialty Hospitals.
25.   Social Security Institutefor Public Employees (ISSSTE). ISSSTE is organized along the
same lines as IMSS: it provides health care, retirement and housing benefits to approximately
8.8 million public sector employees. ISSSTE covers employees of the federal government,
several government-owned parastatals, and municipal and state governrnents. Six states have
their own ISSSTE system for their employees, but most public sector employees belong to the
federal system.
26.   Secretariat of Health (SSA).  The SSA covers about 30 percent of the Mexican
population. It is responsible for the definition of health sector policies and the regulation,
supervision and strategic planning for the health system. It is also responsible for the delivery
of public health programs and the control of communicable diseases, as well as the financing
and provision of health care services for the uninsured. The SSA includes an extensive network
of primary health care facilities and hospitals (about 7,000), ranging from small rural clinics to
highly specialized hospitals. In 1996, the Government started an aggressive decentralization
process to transfer power from federal institutions to state entities, supported by the Bank's
Second Basic Health project (3943-ME).
27.   IMSS-Solidaridad was created to channel health care services to rural populations who
lack access to health facilities. IMSS-Solidaridad is supervised by IMSS with bi-partite funding
from IMSS and the federal government. The affiliation with IMSS provides the program with
political support, indirect subsidies, and a well-developed administrative structure. In June
1996, it was estimated that this progranm provided services to about 11 million people, with
3,540 rural clinics and 67 hospitals in more than 10,000 localities.
28.   The Health Department of the Federal District (DDF) runs its own health services. Of a
potential client population of 3.5 million in 1994, approximately 2.6 million used DDF services.
The DDF runs 143 medical units, of which 80 percent are primary health care units.
Productivity of services is low, however, as patients often prefer other services within the
metropolitan areas.
29.   The delivery systems described above are vertically integrated, self-contained systems
operating separately from one another, with their own financing system, primary level health
clinics and! secondary/tertiary level hospitals. All are centrally budgeted and operated by
salaried stzaff.
30.   The private health care system is currently growing rapidly but remains relatively
under-developed and weakly regulated. Private providers tend to operate through small-scale
clinics and doctors' offices, with only a few large private hospitals (the average number of beds
in private hospitals is around 12). Regardless of size, private institutions typically charge based
on a fee-for-service arrangement. Overall, the private sector is atomized on the provider side;
even within the largest private hospitals, doctors operate independently and contract with
hospitals for certain services. Most private sector facilities are located in urban areas with the
highest concentration by far in Mexico City. The private health sector includes private health
insurance plans, but currently these are estimated to cover only 2.4 percent of the population. It
also includes private, Managed Care Organizations (MCOs), although this industry is in its
infancy in Mexico. The two most prominent Mexican HMOs, Meximed and Premedica,
appeared only within the last five years. Much investment in the managed care sector comes
from abroad, particularly from Spain, Chile, and The United States.
8



III. THE GOVERNMENT'S HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM STRATEGY
A. Achievements To Date - The Reform Framework
31.   During 1995, health reform became a Government priority and a new program for 1995-
2000 was established. Responsibility for health care provision is assigned to the SSA and IMSS,
with the former concentrating on low-income groups who lack access. One intention of the
reforms is to restore the SSA as the coordinator and regulator of the entire sector (including
social security and private sector institutions) as it delegates service provision responsibilities to
state health services. To facilitate the extension of health services, the SSA is in the process of
decentralizing its primary health care facilities to the states. IMSS would, in turn, extend social
security benefits to those who were previously outside the system, namely the unemployed and
those in the informal sector. Under the proposed reform, these populations would enjoy access
to medical services through a voluntary, publicly subsidized health insurance scheme.
32.   The Government's reform program for the health sector focuses on: (a) limiting the
fiscal impact of the proposed health insurance reforms and promote financial transparency in
the management of resources; (b) increasing health coverage under the social security system;
(c) promoting better quality and efficiency in services provision; and (d) introducing
accountability and supervision in health care delivery and finance.
33.   Reform Principles. While the specific strategies to implement the reforms will vary over
time, there are a number of common principles that have been embraced to strengthen the
health care system:
*  a clear separation of financing and delivery, as a key element in the introduction of
competition, transparency and accountability to the health insurance system;
*  decentralization of responsibility and accountability from the center to the level at which
management can best respond to user needs;
* development of internal market mechanisms to ensure that resources follow the patients,
rather than the other way around;
*  greater accountability to patients;
*  the pursuit of the highest level of care quality and value with the resources available in the
system;
*  gradual introduction of competition, both among public health care providers (IMSS and
others) and between public and private providers of health care;
*  ensure a high degree of flexibility, allowing for variations in local services in order to
respond to specific local needs, test alternative models of financing and provision, and
adjust strategies throughout the reform process.
34.   During the first half of the 1990s, a number of actions had been undertaken to address
the problems in the sector.   The main achievements include the decentralization of
responsibility for the provision of SSA health services to the states, the definition of a basic
public health package for the uninsured population, and the approval of the SSL in December
1995. The initial efforts of the reform process can be viewed as having two major components:
(a) the decentralization and extension of coverage, spearheaded by SSA; and (b) improving
quality and user choice, spearheaded by IMSS.
9



SSA Refoxrm
35.   Decentralization and Extension of Coverage. The reform of services for the uninsured
relies mainly on further decentralization and devolution of power from the federal health
institutions to state institutions for the provision of services. State institutions will assume a
new comnmitment to deliver minimum health care services to the uninsured. A gradual reform
process is envisioned, with state health services first taking up the functions of the SSA. In the
longer run, state institutions will merge with other decentralized institutions, such as IMSS-
Solidaridad.
36.   Decentralization is already well underway. A National Health Council was set up in
1995 to supervise the reform process in SSA. A framework agreement between federal and
state level authorities and trade unions was signed in August 1996 and individual agreements
between 28 states and the Federal Government have also been signed.  The current
decentralization process is intended to go beyond the limited decentralization of the 1980s. A
major improvement is the introduction of minimum health care programs to be provided by the
decentralized states. A more transparent capitation formula to distribute federal resources
among states has also been defined in order to improve resource allocation efficiency and
equity. The reform of the SSA is being supported by the Second Basic Health project (3943-ME)
currently umder implementation.
The 1995 Social Security Law - IMSS Reform
37.   Reform of the social security system was debated during 1995 and a new Social Security
Law (Ley del Seguro Social, SSL) passed in December of that year. The new law was scheduled
to take effect in January 1997, but this was later postponed to July 1997. As the largest
organization in both the social security and health sectors, IMSS will play a key role in the
reform. The framework for IMSS reforms are based on three major instruments: (a) the
introduction of mechanisms to stimulate greater efficiency and better quality; (b) changes in
financing and delivery schemes: opt-in and opt-out reforms4 (see para. 40); and (c) a change of
financing through the modification of the premium structure.
38.   Increasing User Choice. This reform has already gotten underway on a pilot basis by
letting IMSS patients having their choice of general practitioner. The eventual goal is to clearly
separate financing and service provision within IMSS, thereby increasing incentives for quality
and efficiency in service provision. It is hoped that market mechanisms will allow patients to
secure the benefits of competition within IMSS. Establishing internal competition will, in broad
terms, require the development of a structure which allows a degree of free movement by
patients, capitation payments, and the ability on the part of Medical Area Units and MCOs to
control costs, most likely by taking an active role in contracting with providers. Since January
1998, the Medical Area Units have received budget allocations based on a capitation formula,
adjusted for age and sex. This constitutes an important first step to promoting competition and
user choice within IMSS.
4   In the IMSS case, 'opting-in" refers to new entrants into the IMSS health care system, ostensibly from the
self-employed and informal sector populations. Conversely, "opting-out" refers to a system whereby
beneficiaries choose to receive health benefits through alternative providers, which will guarantee a
minimal level of service provision in exchange for a fixed fee based on a risk-adjusted capitated payment
scheme. However, they remain part of the overall social security financing and insurance system.
10



39.   Actions to promote quality and efficiency would include: (a) introducing greater choice
of health care providers within Medical Area Units; (b) assigning clear goals, management
responsibilities and instruments to IMSS providers and MCOs; (c) establishing minimum
accreditation standards for providers and eligibility criteria for MCOs; and (d) establishing a
clear and equitable expenditures allocation mechanism. Finally, accountability will be
introduced into the system through clear rules and regulations to be followed by providers and
management institutions, decentralization of decision-making and management at public
health care and social security institutions, and supervision of compliance with regulations and
performance contracts. These actions will be reinforced through the policy conditions of the
proposed loan.
40.   Changes in Health Insurance Schemes - Opting-In and Opting-Out. Another key
aspect of IMSS reforms includes the extension of coverage under a publicly subsidized
insurance scheme (opting-in) and the introduction of managed care through an opting-out
scheme under which IMSS members, through their employers, are given the option of receiving
a per capita fee to receive services through alternative public and private integrated care
systems. These two alternative components will be gradually incorporated to avoid potential
risks, including risk selection and segmentation by income level.
Opting-In. The aim of the opt-in reform is to attract the population that falls in the gap
between social security and SSA coverage or between social security and the private
sector. This population is mainly urban and, while it has the capacity to pay for better
health care, does not belong to the formal economy. Hence, under the old system it was
unable to register with a social security institution. With the opt-in reform, informal
sector families will be able to assume IMSS health insurance at an attractive price under
the Family Health Insurance Program (Seguro de Salud para la Familia, SSFAM). In
addition to introducing the possibility of health insurance for a previously excluded
population group, the changes in the SSL have important implications on the financing
of health insurance for the self-employed and informal sector workers. Under the
previous 1973 Social Security Law, voluntary insurance was available for US$38 per
month (305 pesos), financed entirely by worker contributions. With the new law, self-
employed and informal sector workers are now able to enroll for IMSS health coverage
with a payment of US$24 per month (235 pesos per family) and a public subsidy of
around US$15 (116 pesos per direct enrolled).
Opting-Out. Opting-out (prestaci6n indirecta) is the most far-reaching reform element.
The opt-out reform represents a major structural change for the social security system,
introducing choice of health care provider for members and opening the door for a
major expansion of private managed care and health care provision. The opt-out
program will be introduced gradually, to allow IMSS providers time to improve the
quality and efficiency of services. The central element of the opt-out reform is an
alternative delivery strategy by which IMSS members, through their employers, can opt
out of IMSS' delivery system and into coverage by MCOs, as alternative public and
private providers. These MCOs will receive a risk-adjusted capitated fee in return for
the provision of an integrated health care package, and in turn guarantee provision of
health services in place of IMSS. Under the opt-out scheme, IMSS will act as a financier
and purchaser, while the MCOs. will organize the provider network. In general terms,
the opt-out reform is expected to achieve the following goals:
11



(i) The reform will stimulate two relatively undeveloped industries: insurance and
public and private health care provision. It wilL also serve to encourage competition
within the health sector, stimulating greater efficiency and higher quality of care.
On the finance side, based on a gradual process, public and private MCOs would
compete to capture a new mass market, rather than the more limited market of those
wealthy enough to pay for dupLicate insurance. On the provider side, primary care
physicians, hospitals, and suppLiers of pharmaceuticals and medical technology
would also compete, innovating and increasing efficiency wherever possible to win
contracts with competing insurers.
(ii) Opt-out will reduce employment costs and stimulate formal employment. Due to
perceived inadequacies of the social security system, many large employers offer
additional private health insurance to employees or assume health related expenses.
To the extent that opt-out provisions prove a satisfactory alternative to double
insuring, non-wage employment costs will decrease and formerly uninsured
workers may join IMSS.
(iii) Finally, opt-out would likely increase user welfare by generating greater user choice
among health care providers and raising the quality of medical care and services.
41.   Change in  Premium  Structure.               Distribution of Health Insurance Revenues,
Following the SSL, IMSS instituted a                    Before and After Reforms
change in the premium structure in July
1997 to address chronic deficits (see para.    90
19) and systemic inefficiencies. Under the                    contrbutionst
new system, the premium is divided into r0 70
two parts: a flat capitated rate, and a   60
variable contribution linked to income for  0 50
those earning salaries above three times  40 
the minimilum wage. Contributions are    30                 Payrolltaxes
capped for salaries above 25 times the    20
minimum wage. In sum, the composition     10
of IMSS health insurance financing will    0
change from roughly 95 percent employer            More_(1996)       After_(1997)
and employer contributions and 5 percent
Government contributions to 67 percent employer and employee contributions and 33 percent
Government contributions.  The adjacent figure summarizes the main changes in IMSS
financing promulgated under the 1995 SSL.
42.   For all salaried employees, emiployers and the Government will each make a
contribution equivalent to 13.9 percent of the 1996 minimum wage (or roughly US$14 per
member per month), with the Government share indexed to inflation (IPC) and the employer's
contribution indexed to minimum salaries in the Federal District. The share paid by employers
will rise to 20.4 percent of the minimum wage by 2007, while payments by the Government will
be adjustecl according to increases in the Ininimum wage. For workers earning more than three
times the minimum wage, additional contributions will be paid as a fixed share of income:
employers will pay 6 percent of the wage above this level and employees will pay 2 percelAt of
the same portion. This total of 8 percent will be gradually reduced to 1.5 percent over the next
decade. By 2007, marginal rates of social security health care contribution on salaries above
three times the minimum wage will be 0.4 percent for workers and 1.1 percent for employers.
12



The final 1.5 percent will remain to comply with a constitutional provision that calls for a
proportional element in social security contributions (see Annex 9 for a detailed explanation).
43.   The changes indicated above will have a significant impact on IMSS financing and
coverage and imply an important increase in government contributions to social security. The
changes would: (a) reduce part of the incentives to under-report economic activity; (b) allow a
wider range of the population to opt into the social security system by reducing the cost of
enrollment through a government subsidy for informal sector and self-employed workers; (c)
shift a major burden of payroll taxes from employers and employees to general tax revenues;
(d) increase the progressiveness of the financing system by eliminating contributions for all
workers earning less than 3 minimum salaries and providing public subsidies for insurance to
the self-employed and informal sector workers; and (e) allow the opting-out of IMSS members
by returning a per capita fixed fee to employers to opt out of IMSS' delivery system and into
coverage by MCOs, as alternative public and private providers.
B. The Social Security Law- Issues And Challenges
44.   Implementation of the SSL in IMSS will need to consider the following main issues with
regard to health insurance in Mexico:  (a) how  to ensure the financially sustainable
implementation of competition and the extension of coverage; (b) how to prepare IMSS health
insurance and service delivery network for the introduction of competition from other public
and private insurers and providers; and (c) how to introduce the institutional and regulatory
framework necessary to oversee the gradual development of health insurance and managed
care markets. These issues define the major challenges for the IMSS health reforms, and set the
stage for the broader health system reforms.
Limiting the Fiscal Impact
45.   The shift in health insurance financing from payroll taxation to general revenue
financing will have a significant short-term fiscal implication. While it is expected that
government revenues from general taxes will eventually increase due to higher incentives to
formal sector employment and lower incentives to evade taxes, over the short-term the impact
of the SSL is estimated to increase government contributions to IMSS from 0.07 percent of GDP
to 0.7 percent by the year 2010 and from 0.3 percent of government expenditures to roughly 3.4
percent over the same period. Estimated government contributions would jump almost tenfold
from US$218 million in 1996 to over US$2 billion in 1998.
46.   Estimated Impact on IMSS Revenues and Expenditures. After years of chronic deficits
in the health insurance program, the 1995 SSL would restore IMSS to financial equilibrium -
eveni a surplus in some years - due to the rapid rise in Government contributions, incentives to
formal sector employment, and the new insurance schemes for the self-employed and informal
sector workers. During loan preparation, a detailed financial model was developed to estimate
the impact of the changes in the SSL on health insurance financing and coverage until the year
2010 (see Annex 9).
47.   Over the long-term, financial projections using a medium case scenario indicate that
IMSS health-related real revenues would more than double, from US$4.1 billion in 1996 to over
US$9.6 billion by 2010. On the expenditure side, however, the projections (see box next page)
underline the importance of introducing cost-containment mechanisms and of carefully
phasing in the opting-out and opting-in policies. Without the introduction of cost-containment
13



The Financial Projections Model-Impact of the 1995 SSL on IMSS Net Revenues
A financiial projection model was developed to simulate the implications of the social security reform on
Government expenditures and on IMSS revenues and expenditures to the year 2010. The model was used to
determine the short term irnpact of the reform based on four basic policy issues relevant to the 1995 reforms:
*  evaluate the fiscal consequences of the changes in the social security financing and health insurance;
*  estimate the impact on IMSS revenues ind expenditures of changes in the financing of the health
insurance system, and the consequences of demographic changes on total insured and health
expenlitures;
.  simulate the potential impact of the introduction of opting-out and opting-in on expenditures and
revenues of Federal Government and IMSS;
.  provide long-term estimates on the total potentially insured population of IMSS, given estimated
changes in the demographic profile of the population and the Mexican labor market.
[A detailed analysis of the results and the explanation of the model, as wvell as sensitivity analysis under various
assumptions, are presented in Annex 9.]
Addressing these issues is critical to ensure fiscal discipline and to determine the impact of the health
insurance reform on overall health sector financing. The medium case scenario shown below assumes the
following: zero wage growth over the medium-term; 1 and 2 percent annual increases in fixed and variable
costs, respectively; IMSS coverage would reach 35 percent of the econornically active population (EAP) by
the year 2010; the family health insurance scheme would reach 7 percent of IMSS members; and opting-out
would be extended to 3 percent of IMSS members.
GOM contributions (US$ nillion)                    218   1,764  2,639  3,367
GOM contributions as % of non-financial sector
public sector expenditures                       0.3 %  2.1 %  2.6 %  2.8 %
GOM contributions as % of GDP                     0.07%  0.48%  0.56%  0.60%
He!alth insurance revenues (US$ million)          4,105  5,417  7,590  9,654
Health insurance expenditures (US$ million)       4,256  4,380  6,166  7,974
Total surplus (deficit) (US$ million)             (151)  1,037  1,425  1,680
% IEAP in IMSS                                     29%    29%    32%    35%
measures, IMSS health expenditures would rise to over US$10 billion, once again leading to a
financial disequilibrium fueled by medical inflation and an aging population.
48.   Impact of Demographic and Labor Market Changes.  The totail insured population
under IMSS should increase from current levels of 28 percent to around 35 percent of the
economically active population (EAP), based on the reduction in payroll taxes, the increase in
coverage iFor informal and self-employed workers, and increases in female labor market
participation. Over the medium- to long-term, the aging of the population would have a
significant impact on IMSS health insurance revenue and expenditure.   Demographic
projections estimate that the population over 65 years of age will increase from 6.5 percent to
over 10 percent by the year 2015, thus leading to a substantial rise in expected spending and a
decline in overall revenues. The demographic changes underscore the need to implement cost-
containment reforms and the timeliness of the shift to general revenue financing.
48.    The Government is responding to the need to implement reforms in the financial
management and reserve policy through a two-pronged approach which addresses the two
main policy objectives: (a) transparent management of the different insurance programs,
14



including improved asset-liability management, and (b) clear targets for investment in the IMSS
health care delivery network through the execution of an investment program under the
Innovative Development Fund (IDF, see para. 62(d) and Annex 7). First, in the short-term,
IMSS and the Ministry of Finance (SHCP) have agreed upon a financial strategy that will
implement a regulatory and institutional framework - within the context of an IMSS reserves
policy - for the transparent administration and allocation of the surpluses that are likely to be
formed over the next ten years in the different IMSS insurance programs. Through the
implementation of the proposed reserves policy, the Government will gradually address the
main issues associated with IMSS financial management and asset-liability. Second, over the
medium-term, the reserves policy would align incentives among the insurance programs. The
framework will be negotiated annually through an agreement between IMSS and SHCP
establishing annual targets for the use of IMSS reserves from the different insurance branches,
to ensure maximum transparency and avoid the commingling of funds. The implementation
of the regulatory and institutional framework will be supported by technical assistance from
the Technical Assistance Loan (TAL, see para. 86 and Annex 8) which will accompany this
operation.
The Effect of Opting-In and Opting-Out Scenarios
The estimates regarding the impact of opting-out and opting-in are dependent on assumptions about the
number of workers that select each of the insurance schemes. The opting-in option for self-employed and
informal sector workers has the potential to significantly increase fiscal obligations to the system, over and
aDove the current tenfold increase in Government contributions, as each individual opting in would carry a
subsidy of approximately US$168 per year. The potential liability to the Government with 450,000 people
opting-in (out of an estimated maximum of 6 to 10 million self-employed and informal sector workers) would
be an additional US$80 million per year.
At present, there are an estimated 200,000 people affiliated under the opting-out scheme (1.5 percent of the
total insured population), mainly in the banking and financial sectors and several of the country's largest
employers. The changes in the legislation and the Government's reform program aim to increase this number
by extending the program to companies with roughly 15,000 workers or 50,000 beneficiaries (workers and
their families). Assuming the program were to reach a 10 percent opting-out level, the estimated outflows
from IMSS under the proposed system (returning a risk adjusted capitation payment to employers to purchase
services from alternative insurers/providers) would increase from less than US$100 million now to over US$1
billion by the year 2010. Failure to regulate and actively manage the opting-out provision represents a
potential weakening of IMSS' financial base due to adverse selection and cream skimming, namely the opting-
out of "good risks" while leaving the institution with relatively "bad risks," those who contribute less to the
system but use it more. Furthermore, opting-out has the potential to increase IMSS health expenditures as the
opting-out program essentially costs IMSS twice: first through the cash payment made to an outside provider,
and second through the fixed, or sunk, costs that stay with the institution. The increased average costs
derived from these actions may have detrimental effects in IMSS financing and may require additional
government support if not adequately managed.
Extending Coverage
50.    The first major issue is extending coverage of the social security system to reduce wide
disparities in the level of coverage among labor market sectors and geographical regions. While
the majority of urban, formal sector workers are covered through either IMSS or ISSSTE,
coverage is extremely limited among rural workers, the self-employed, and informal sector
15



workers. Outside of major urban areas, coverage by IMSS is low: 42 percent of formal, private
sector workers are enrolled in IMSS, while IMSS coverage of all private sector rural workers is
only 4.6 percent. Coverage is even lower among the self-employed and irnformal sector workers
at only 3 percent.
51.   Even among the 34 million Mexicans covered by IMSS, access remains a serious
problem due to inefficiencies within the system and a lack of client focus. IMSS services at
both the ambulatory and hospital leve:l are characterized by long waiting times and poor
service. A study of IMSS family medicine units found that, on average, patients had to wait
two hours for an appointment lasting 10 minutes, while waiting lists for elective surgery reach
up to 15 months for selected procedures. For the estimated 6 to 10 million self-employed and
informal sector workers the problem of access is even more acute.' The extension of coverage
to these workers, specifically through the proposed publicly subsidized health insurance
system, would have to be balanced against the fiscal costs of doing so and the capacity of IMSS
to provide additional services with the existing infrastructure and personnel.
Preparing IMSS for Competition
52.   The second major issue facing IMSS policymakers is related to reducing institutional
inefficiencies in the provision and financing of health services, associated with the need to
improve the quality of care and to prepare the IMSS health care delivery network for increasing
competition from the private sector.
53.   Reducing Inefficiency in the Delivery of Health Care Services. Evidence that the system
as a whole is inefficient is highlighted by comparing Mexico's health outcomes given the
amount ol money spent with those of other countries. This aggregate evidence is fairly
convincing that Mexico could do better when measured in terms of two key non-health
outcome intdicators - access and efficiency. Several indicators point to the lack of value for
money in the health system. Nearly 10 percent of the population remains; without access to the
health system and less than 5 percent of rural, formal sector workers are covered by health
insurance; moreover, for the population enrolled in IMSS, access to services is often
complicated by long waiting times. Nearly 55 percent of IMSS users complained about
excessive waiting times in IMSS facilities compared with 26 percent for private facilities.  In
terms of efficiency, the fact that total health care spending has been growing -even as some key
indicators of health status have not improved -suggests that the system is facing a mounting
problem of inefficiency. The pattern of IMSS spending favors less cost-effective hospital
services - roughly 85 percent of total IMSS health spending - over highly cost-effective
primary care services or over more cost--effective technologies. Moreover, the duplication of
providers 'has led to excess capacity and waste: in many IMSS hospitals occupancy rates are
well below 70 percent while others are saturated with long waiting lists. Risk pooling and
provider compensation arrangements need to be designed to contain costs, extend access, and
promote the provision of greater quality care and value for money. Two of the major sources of
inefficiency within IMSS are centralized management and deficiencies in the financing and
management of service delivery.
54.   Centralized management and vertical integration limit the efficiency of health care
service provision. Despite the fact that the IMSS is Mexico's largest institution with over 350,000
5  Based on estimates of self-employed and informal sector workers as a share of EAP (approx. 15 to 25
percent). Evoluci6n de los Mercados Laborales en Mxico, Enrique Davila.
16



employees and roughly 1,600 provider units, until 1997 nearly all management decisions were
made at the central level. The vertical integration of the institutions is coupled with
centralized, "top-down" budgeting and management. Care providers across regions are by-
and-large centrally budgeted by line items for both their operational and development budgets.
Budgeting has followed historical patterns rather than the health needs of the population. The
centralized management and historical resource allocation system, coupled with a lack of
performance-related pay systems, have contributed to a general lack of accountability which
has resulted in: (a) an unequal distribution of resources across regions and populations, and
even within medical institutions (in addition to inter-institutional differences); (b) a lack of
responsiveness to local health needs; (c) a lack of responsiveness to clients; and (d) no
incentives for efficiency.
55.   Improving the Quality of IMSS Health Care Services. Lack of competition, inadequate
control mechanisms, obsolete equipment, chronic deficits, and deficient management practices
have led to increasingly poor quality health services in the IMSS. A major survey of Mexican
public attitudes toward health care was carried out in 1994.6 Fifty-nine percent of Mexicans
thought that the current system "has some positive aspects but requires fundamental change."
Another 24 percent were less content and thought that "the system works so badly that it needs
to be rebuilt completely." Results from recent household surveys indicate that between 65 and
70 percent of respondents rate private health care services as of better quality than IMSS.
Among the insured population of the social security systems, dissatisfaction with the quality of
service has led many to seek health care outside the institution with which they are affiliated so
they are often enrolled in more than one system. Their principal reasons were: (a) poor service;
(b) lack of resources, such as drugs and well trained personnel; (c) lack of access; and (d) high
costs. In addition, the study revealed that quality issues are not limited to the lack of resources,
personnel and technical problems: 40 percent of patients felt they were not treated adequately,
61 percent considered services too bureaucratic, 8 percent did not receive medical treatment
when needed, and 26 percent had to postpone an intervention for economic reasons. Any
lasting reform of IMSS care network will have to instill a strong user orientation in both
administrative and medical service personnel, supported by a meaningful performance-based
incentive system linked to customer satisfaction. In addition, investment in new administrative
support systems and biomedical equipment, accompanied by updated training, will be
necessary.
Development of An Institutional and Regulatory Framework
56.   The regulatory framework for the health insurance market is a limiting factor to the
development of greater competition and improved quality and efficiency in Mexico.  The
Government's proposed reform program will rely heavily on the capacity to formulate and
enforce regulations designed for a contractual relationship between the IMSS and its providers.
While progress has been made to improve information systems and to hire better trained
personnel, institutional capacity is generally quite weak, and the support systems-MIS,
accounting, financial administration, and quality control-are inadequate to manage in the
competitive environment envisioned under the reform.
57.   Specifically, the proposals to promote competition through the opting-out scheme,
along with the need to regulate the purchase of services through its own Medical Area Units,
6 The survey was carried out by Dr. R. Blendon of the Harvard School of Public Health and FUNSALUD.
Personal interviews were conducted with 1,419 users.
17



will require strengthening of the institutional capacity within IMSS and, at the same time, the
SSA. Regtlations will need to be developed to define the content of the basic health benefits
package and ensure that all Medical Area Units and private MCOs are delivering it to their
members, introduce new resource allocation mechanisms for the purchasing of services,
develop quality control and performance benchmarks to allow regulatory agencies to evaluate
the quality and efficiency of service provision, and, moreover, introduce clear guidelines to set
and enforce minimnum financial standards and insurance-related provisions necessary for the
operation of MCOs and the private health insurance market.
58.   The Government has established a Task Force for Health Reform, including members of
IMSS, SSA, SHCP, and other governmental agencies to set the framework for sector reform and
oversee its implementation. This constitutes an important first step towards the development
of a regulatory framework to oversee the purchasing of health services from IMSS Medical Area
Units and the gradual extension of purchasing to private MCOs.
C. The Long-Term View Of Reform
59.   The long-term result of the Government's health system reform would be a system in
which: (a) an essential health package is defined and accessible to the full population; (b) the
responsibility for the provision of health services to the population with no pre-payment
capacity is assigned to SSA; (c) a single fund receives resources from all sources (government
contributions, employers and employees) corresponding to all social security institutions and
transfers resources to MCOs - including public, e.g., IMSS Medical Area Units, or non-public,
e.g., private MCOs - on a risk-adjusted capitation basis; (d) the MCOs assume the risk of
delivering the services included in the comprehensive care package with the capitated
allocation from this fund, and rules are set in place to resolve market failures; (e) the internal
market is fully developed, whereby the IMSS Medical Area Units and MCOs use DRGs7 or
case-based payment systems to purchase services from public and private providers which
comply with minimum accreditation criteria and standards for service delivery; (f) there is an
independent supervisory capacity to ensure that the services provided meet quality and
financial regulations; (g) additional market mechanisms are fully operational to allow the
Medical Area Units and MCOs to act as budgetholding organizations, purchasing services for
their populations; and (h) there is a fully developed market for supplementary health insurance
to complement the comprehensive care package with a supplemental package providing for
improved q[uality and service. A more detailed discussion can be found in Annex 4.
D. Reform Imnplementation - IMSS
60.   Instruments and Timing. For the short-term - i.e., 1998-2000, the Government has
opted to concentrate an important part of its reform implementation efforts on IMSS, mainly
because (a) the 1995 SSL will have an immediate impact on IMSS financing and sets the
framework for structural reforms, and (b) IMSS is likely to remain the most important public
health care provider for some time. The reform program for the period 1998-2000 to be
supported by the loan would follow  a two-pronged approach:  (a) developing and
7   DRGs, or diagnosis-related groups, is one of several methods of patient classification systems that have
been developed as an instrument for clinical management and hospital payment systems. The underlying
principle of the system is based on grouping similar diagnostic categories, using the ICD-9 classification
system, according to expected resource utilization for a given group. The system allows health managers
to benchmark a number of quality and productivity indicators according to diagnostic group.
18



implementing health insurance financing reforms (opting-in) and the necessary regulatory
framework through (i) separating financing from provision of services, (ii) increasing user
choice and extending coverage, and (iii) developing and implementing purchasing
mechanisms; and (b) institutional strengthening of IMSS through (i) changing its corporate
structure and (ii) strengthening its health care delivery network. The reform comprises the
following instruments/ activities:
Developing The Regulatory Framework
61.   For the development of a regulatory framework, the following actions are necessary:
(a) Establishing Risk Pooling, and the Separation of Financing and Provision: The Social
Security Health Fund (SSHF). The pooling of risks under a single financing system will be
designed to contain costs, extend access and promote greater quality of care and value for
money. The separation of financing and provision and the introduction of provider
compensation systems are important steps in order to ensure that the system is managed
transparently, efficiently and under an even playing field for all institutions involved. The
separation of financing and provision requires that the activities being provided are
governed by explicit contracts, or management agreements, between the financing agency
and the provider.
The pooling of risks and the separation of financing and provision within IMSS will be
carried out by establishing a Social Security Health Fund (SSHF). The SSHF will play a
fundamental role in realizing the potential for increased choice and competition
established within the health system introduced by the SSL. The SSHF will pool funds of
those who opt out of IMSS, as well as funds from those workers who opt in (mainly the
self-employed and informal sector workers). The SSHF will consolidate all IMSS health
resources, including Sickness and Maternity, Family Health Insurance Program (SSFAM),
Pensioners' Medical Care and Workers Compensation programs, and will allocate funds to
each Medical Area Unit and, eventually, to IMSS MCOs on a capitated basis. Over the
medium-term, the capitation payments will include additional resources to allow Medical
Area Units and MCOs to purchase care from the Specialty Hospitals using DRG or case-
based payment mechanisms.8 At the same time, the SSHF will continue to directly finance,
a package of high-technology, high-cost cases at Specialty Hospitals on a diagnosis-related
basis (DRGs).
In the long term, the pooled-risk funds, such as SSHF, could merge all mandatory health
contributions in the Mexican system, including those of other public health insurance
institutions. As such, the SSHF could evolve into a national health insurance fund open to
all medical institutions comprising the Mexican health care system and purchasing services
from all public and non-public providers or MCOs.
During the first phase of the reforms, representatives from SHCP, SSA, SECODAM, and
other governmental agencies (the "SSHF Committee") will provide advisory functions and
help monitor the SSHF to promote transparency of the supervision and regulatory regime.
8  The purchasing of health care at Specialty Hospitals by Medical Area Units will require that the new
organizational and functional structures are fully operational to allow the Medical Area Units to act as
budgetholders or purchasers. Until such time, the Medical Area Units will receive capitation payments
that do not contain resources for purchasing care at the Specialty Hospitals and the SHIF will continue to
finance the Specialty Hospitals through direct budget transfers.
19



Over the medium-term, a properly strengthened supervisory body, acting independently
of all agents and with clear rules of the game would be established in order to have a
properly working system of managed competition. In addition, a technical unit will be
established within IMSS to support the execution of the operational activities of the SSHF.
The main responsibilities of IMSS and its technical unit vis-a-vis the SSHF include: (a)
setting standards for the budgeting, financial management, accounting and financial
reporting of MCOs, starting with IMSS Medical Area Units; (b) assessing, approving, and
monitoring the implementation of the capitation and DRG formulae; (c) coordinate with
SSA to regulate private MCOs (d) setting the rules for enrollment of new members in
MCOs, the movement of members among MCOs, as well as the rules and regulations for
opting-in and opting-out; (e) appointing an auditor to monitor and audit the collection
system and its performance as well as the financial processes of the MCOs; and (f) creating
and administering an Innovative Development Fund (IDF, see para. 62(d) below and
Annex 7) to assist IMSS providers in financing the purchase of modern medical equipment
and mnodernization of health care faLcilities. Annex 5 provides additional information on
the structure and operating procedures of the SSHF.
(b) Establishing a Capitated System of Payment for Service Delivery. The development of a
risk-adjusted capitation system is a key element to ensure greater efficiency and equity.
The first phase of the reform -initiated in 1997 and extended to all Medical Area Units in
1998--includes the allocation of resources to IMSS Medical Area Units on a capitated basis.
Later phases will include the use of this system as the principal allocative mechanism to
distribute resources to MCOs under the opting-out system. For 1998, the Medical Area
Unit budgets have already been distributed on a capitated basis. Over the next two years,
additional variables will be included in the capitation formula to account for differences in
the health needs of the populations in the Medical Area Units. A complementary action
would be to complete the definition of Integrated Health Care Models to be used in the
contracting of services with MCOs. In addition to the basic health package provided by the
SSA for the population without pre- payment capacity, it is necessary to clearly define the
content and cost of the integrated health care model that will be provided by IMSS Medical
Area Units and private MCOs.
(c) Creating a Database of Beneficiaries. A database of all beneficiaries is necessary for the
proper management and monitoring of the health insurance system, the introduction of
free choice, and the implementation, of a capitated payment system. The database will
allow IMSS to consolidate the capitation resource allocation mechanism by improving the
quality of data on Medical Area Unit populations, and to maintain an updated registry of
all members, their insurance status and other variables which will affect the capitation
formu"la. This information will become increasingly important as the opting-out program
is extended.
(d) Establishing a Regulatory Framework for Increased User Choice. [n the medium term,
user choice will be introduced by allowing selection: (i) of family doctors within a given
Medical Area Unit; (ii) among IMSS Medical Area Units; (iii) among IMSS Medical Area
Units and MCOs (both private and public) under an opting-out scheme; and (iv) of
Specialty Hospitals by budgetholding Medical Area Units that purchase high technology
services.  In order for user choice to work properly, regulation and contracting
arrangements must be set in place to establish the quality and quantity of services to be
provided and the rights and obligations of beneficiaries and providers. The regulations to
20



be issued must include minimum regulations for purchaser-provider organizations (i.e.,
MCOs) and minimum regulations regarding service delivery.
Regulations for MCOs and other providers must set clear rules to prevent cream skimming
and under-provision of health services and establish clear penalties in case of non-
compliance. Specific attention will be paid to avoid segmentation by income levels.
Finally, clear liquidation and closure mechanisms must be established for those MCOs and
providers that do not comply with regulations and standards. These procedures must
make sure that affiliates' rights are protected at all times.
(f) Creating a Supervisory Authority. A supervisory authority is required to authorize MCOs,
establish regulations, and supervise compliance by all agents in the system. A lack of
capacity to regulate the health care market dictates that the supervisory function will have
to be assumed under the SSHF during the first several years of the reform. Over the
medium-term, a properly strengthened supervisory body, acting independently of all
agents and with clear rules of the game would be established in order to have a properly
working system of managed competition.
Institutional Strengthening of IMSS
62.   The following actions are necessary:
(a) Restructuring  the IMSS  Corporate Structure.   As a vital complement to the
decentralization process and to promote the separation of financing and provision of
services within IMSS, major changes will be necessary at all levels of IMSS' organizational
structure. This structure will need to have clearly defined roles and to be strengthened at
each level. The specific activities and functions for each are described in Annex 6.
(b) Decentralizing IMSS. Continuing on the efforts initiated during earlier stages, additional
decentralization of management responsibility and accountability is a critical element to
improve efficiency and improve responsiveness to the health needs of the population.
Decentralization of IMSS will be supported by ensuring that key policy decisions will be
taken to: (i) transfer decision-making to the adequate decentralized level; (ii) ensure that
resources flow transparently to the decentralized decision-making authorities; and (iii)
provide the decentralized units with adequate institutional capacity (budgeting
procedures, treasury systems and internal control systems).
(c) Strengthening IMSS Service Delivery Capacity. The success of the reforms will depend to a
large extent on the strengthening of the IMSS health care delivery network. Financial
support will be provided to Medical Area Units and Specialty Hospitals to strengthen their
delivery capacity and to improve the quality and efficiency of their services. Further
support will be provided to develop the Medical Area Units into autonomous, self-
managed, integrated health delivery units.
(d) Establishing an Innovative Development Fund (IDF). The strengthening of IMSS service
delivery capacity, particularly at the Medical Area Unit level, will require additional
investments in equipment, information systems, and other measures to improve their
production process so as to be more client-oriented and attempt to optimize costs. The
actions to be taken include: better management of patient flows, increased introduction of
outpatient services, and a more effective referral and counter-referral system between levels
of care. The IDF, operating within the SSHF, will be an effective tool for IMSS to improve
the quality and efficiency of care. The IDF will: (i) replace obsolete medical equipment and
21



technology to increase productivity and quality of services and rationalize operating and
maintenance costs; (ii) improve the .management of health facilities at the primary,
secondary, and tertiary levels; (iii) provide IMSS with a flexible instrument that will allow
health facilities to adjust their production capacity in an evolving competitive market; and
(iv) strengthen the organization and development of Medical Area Units. The IDF will
receive gradual financing of US$200 million, as start-up capital, according to an investment
program timetable; replenishment in subsequent years will be made according to an
investment program, based on IMSS budgetary capacity and execution of the investment
program.
In addition to providing capital to finance basic investment needs to ensure minimum levels of
quality and competitiveness, the IDF will use a competitive, demand-driven mechanism to
link additional investments with IMSS reforms. Specifically, the IDF will evaluate
management improvement subprojects and additional investments using a point system
taking into consideration: (i) progress by Medical Area Unit in improvinlg its management,
contracting, and financing functions; (ii) linkage with priority heaLlth problems; (iii)
expected reduction in waiting lists; (iv) reduction in unnecessary referrals; (v) degree of
integration with the health network in the Medical Area Unit; and (vi) innovations in
management of health facilities and health delivery systems. Annex 7 provides further
details on the operation of the IDF.
Next Phase of the Reform
63.   Once the above actions have been substantially achieved, the reformr would move to its
next phase tc:
(a) Include Other Institutions. Although the reform starts with IMSS (and the SSA under a
different loan), future reform efforts will likely include other institutions managing
compulsory contributions for health such as ISSSTE, PEMEX and others.
(b) Promote Universal Health Insurance. Over the medium- to long-term, the reforms are
aimed at promoting the development of risk pooling mechanisms that can integrate
financing sources from all social security institutions (ISSSTE and others) and non-social
security institutions (i.e., SSA) and purchase health services-for both the basic package
currently provided by SSA and the managed health care model to be defined under the
proposed reforms-from a wide array of providers including IMSS, ISSSTE, SSA and
private providers. The fund would operate as a national, or sub-national, Health Insurance
Fund to provide comprehensive coverage to the entire population.
E. Bank Assistance
64.   The Government has requested Bank assistance for its health system reform. In the first
phase, Bank support is concentrating on IMSS and will include budgetary support to help meet
the Government's immediate obligations under the SSL and technical input into the design and
implementation of the reform and the strengthening of IMSS. The Government has provided a
Letter of IMSS Health Insurance Development Policy (Annex 1). Bank support would consist of
two complementary, parallel operations: (a) an adjustment operation, the subject of this
Report, and (b) a Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) (see para. 86 and the Project Appraisal
Document, Report No. 17349-ME).
22



65.   Loan Objectives.  The objective of the proposed loan is to support the initial
implementation phase of reforms, which focus on improving the efficiency and equity of the
health insurance system and increasing the quality and efficiency of health care service
provision within IMSS. Specifically, the loan will support the design and implementation of
major policy changes that aim at:
* Improving the financial management of the IMSS health insurance system to ensure
financial transparency, introduce new resource allocation mechanisms, and limit the fiscal
impact of the proposed health care reforms;
* Strengthening the institutional and regulatory framework for health insurance to extend
coverage to the self-employed and informal sector workers, ensure greater transparency
and accountability among providers, develop measures for quality assurance and users'
rights, and promote user choice; and
* Improving the quality and efficiency of the IMSS health delivery system by supporting the
decentralization of decision-making, restructuring of the health care delivery network
around a population-based system, and the introduction of performance-based incentives
for providers.
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
66.   The loan is consistent with the CAS objectives of growth, stability, social development,
and the modernization of the state set forth in the Mexico CAS (Report 16135-ME) discussed by
the Executive Directors in December 1996.9 The proposed loan would directly address three of
the five actions for the health sector identified in the CAS and support several other CAS
objectives. Specifically, the proposed loan would support the development of policy actions
aimed at the following objectives:
 Establishing a financially viable health insurance systems under the new SSL by developing the
institutional and regulatory framework necessary to contain costs, reduce risk selection,
improve quality and develop adequate supervision capacity.
* Increasing the role of the private sector in delivery health services through the opting-out system
that allows for IMSS members to select private providers of insurance and services rather
than IMSS. The project would support the development of contracts, performance
indicators to measure efficiency and quality of private providers, as well as the regulatory
instruments to allow for a prudent implementation of competition in the Mexico health
sector.
*  Decentralizing more responsibilities to the subnational levels under an equitable system offederal
transfers: IMSS has already made significant progress in promoting the decentralization of
responsibility and accountability to subnational levels by: (i) proposing changes in the
organizational and functional structure to devolve functions and responsibility to the
Regional level and to the Medical Area Units; (ii) decentralizing part of the budget
preparation process and increasing the authority of local levels over budget execution; and
(iii) designing and implementing a resource allocation system based on a risk-adjusted
capitation formula. The proposed project would support continued development of these
actions, as detailed in the project description.
9 A CAS Update Report has been scheduled for Board discussion on April 14, 1998.
23



67.   Other CAS objectives which will be supported by the proposed loan include growth,
which would be supported by (a) improving the incentives for employment in the formal sector
by loweringr the burden of payroll taxes; (b) increasing the efficiency of the health system,
thereby redLucing its distortionary effects on the economy; and (c) increasing long-term
productivity and welfare gains resul'  .a -. a healthier population. Economic and social
stability would be enhanced by improving the fiscal and financial sustairnability of the health
system, and by its contribution to social equity, a crucial element for social and political
stability. Social development would be supported through investment in the population's health.
This would be enhanced through the project's support of investment in public health and
primary care and by extension of coverage. Social development would also be supported by
the overall improved efficiency of spending in the social sector. Modernization of the state would
be enhanced since the reform  would aid Mexico in following other OECD nations in
guaranteeing each citizen a right to a social package of care provided by accountable public and
private institutions.
68.   Past Lending. i nis is tue first time that the Government of Mexico has requested Bank
assistance for an adjustment loan for the social sectors. It is the product of several years of
policy dialogue and sector analysis. Although Bank lending for the social sectors in Mexico
started in thie 1980s with technical training projects, it is only since 1991 that the Bank's Mexico
portfolio in the social sectors has grown - from US$332 million in FY91 to US$2.3 billion in
FY98. To date, the social sector portfolio represents about 30 percent of the Bank's active
lending program for Mexico.
69.   Even though Bank involvement in the Mexico health sector dates from only 1991, Bank
knowledge of the sector and active participation in health has increased steadily. The first Basic
Health Care Project (FY91), supported by a US$180 million loan (3272-M[E), was successfully
completed in FY96. The Essential Social Services loan (3912-ME) for US$500 million, with a
substantial amount allocated to the health sector, was designed after the 1994 peso crisis to
support Government social spending to programs directly benefiting the poor. The Second
Basic Health project (FY96), with a US$310 million loan (3943-ME), supports measures to
improve the coverage and quality of basic health services in the eleven poorest states and to
devolve to the states functional and budget authority for healtht services delivery.
ImplementaLtion thus far has been above the Bank's overall portfolio periormance. The Bank's
strategy has focused so far on the uninsured population and basic health programs, which is
the target of the SSA programs. The new SSL, with a clear focus on reforrring health insurance
and the pension system, offers the Bank a unique opportunity to initiate lending related to
policy reforms in the health sector.  The policy lending started with thrie FY96 Contractual
Savings Development Program (Ln. 4123-ME). This proposed loan would be a logical next step
to the Bank's social sector lending program in Mexico.
70.   Future Lending. As indicated in the CAS, the Bank lending program for the social
sectors supports Government plans to implement far-reaching structural mrLeasures covering the
following sectors:
*  Health System Reform, including continuing the modernization of IMSS and improvement of
the financing and efficiency of services delivery;
*  Education, improving the quality of school entrants through expansion in pre-school
education specifically for indigenous children, upgrading primary edLucation through the
investment of cost-effective inputs (teaching materials, in-service teacher training),
24



expanding access to lower and secondary education in under-served areas. The strategy
also supports Government effort to consolidate decentralization of education services in the
states;
*  Higher Education Financing, extending the availability of student loans for low and middle
income students to increase equitable access to higher education in Mexico;
*  Poverty Reduction, including nutrition programs directed towards poor families and school
children, particularly girls to improve their access to basic education.
71.   The health system reform process in Mexico will require continuing support from the
Bank over the coming years. The Bank and the Government are considering an Adaptable
Program Loan (APL) to provide the necessary support to extend the health system reform to
remaining social security institutions and other public providers. During the operation's Mid-
Term Review scheduled for March 1999, discussions on the general framework for the APL will
be started and the program prepared during calendar year 1999. Following completion of the
proposed structural adjustment loan, the APL could become effective during calendar year
2000, thereby providing a flexible framework to allow the following administration to extend
the health system reform into the next century.
Rationale For Bank Involvement
72.   The share of public resources allocated to the social sectors underscores the importance
of improving the efficiency and quality of services in the health sector within the scope of
improving the overall efficiency of resource allocation in Mexico. The Bank has long been
concerned with improving the efficiency and quality of the health sector in Mexico, and has
supported the extension of coverage and strengthening of the primary health care network and
the social security system through prior lending operations. The Bank is in a position to bring
to this operation a great deal of expertise in health sector reform from other countries, in order
to maximize the potential of the 1995 SSL.
73.   The Bank's collective experience in health care reforms worldwide has contributed to
the reform's technical design and the introduction of implementation arrangements that would
enhance successful operation. In addition, the Bank's involvement in the provision of advice
and technical support in the area of pensions and social security in Mexico culminated in a
pension reform project which is in the implementation stage. The proposed operation will
complement the pension reform project and is an essential part of the overall strategy to
improve the financial situation of IMSS and manage the transition to increased government
contributions to social security. In this regard, the Bank plays a constructive catalytic role to
build consensus among the various reform partners (in this case, IMSS, SSA, and SHCP),
building on the partnership and trust developed during the preparation of the Contractual
Savings Development Program and the implementation of the Basic Health projects.
Justification for Adjustment Lending
74.   The proposed loan would provide immediate support to the Federal budget to ease the
transition from payroll tax financing to general revenue financing and to meet the
Government's short-term obligations to health insurance financing IMSS, estimated at US$2.2
billion in 1998. Furthermore, the proposed loan would provide support to meet the increased
costs of extending coverage foreseen as a response to broad economic recovery from the 1995
crisis and the introduction of new schemes to increase coverage among the self-employed and
informal sector workers, estimated at at least $80 million annually (see box page 15 and Annex
25



9). In addition, the one-time costs associated with restructuring IMSS, strengthening the IMSS
provider network, and increasing financial outlays to finance capitated payments to employers
for the purchase of private insurance under the opting-out scheme, will require short-term
financing.
75.   On thle macroeconomic side, the success of its recent performance and the crediblity of
its policies have earned Mexico access to international financial markets and thus, the country
does not technically face a short-term funding constraint for its baLlance of payments
requirements. Nevertheless, with a foreign debt stock of US$163 billion and gross servicing
requirements estimated at US$36 billion in 1998 and US$41 billion in 1999, Mexico has a
complex debt management challenge. In the current internationally volatile environment,
securing reliable long-term debt instruments is an essential part of any viable medium-term
debt management strategy, and Mexico does face restrictions in its access to longer term debt
and/or intermationally placed bonds. In this regard, World Bank balance of payments support
is critical especially when, at the margin, the macroeconomic impact of the reforms this loan is
supporting is to expand domestic absorption. Mexico faces a seriously binding fiscal constraint.
Although the Government has carefully measured and balanced its access to domestic capital
markets, domestic interest rates are high in real terms and this complicates the management of
short-term capital inflows. The structure of foreign financing is sub-optimally inclined to
shorter-term funding. The current program of health insurance reforms would exacerbate the
difficulties to be faced by the Government in abiding to the fiscal constraint and, hence, in
managing s:hort-term capital inflows. World Bank balance of payments support would allow
the authorities more room to maneuver while helping safeguard the limits of domestic
borrowing aind improve the overall quality of the medium-term fiscal response.
76.   Experience with Adjustnent Lending in Mexico. The Bank experience with adjustment
lending in Mexico in the late 1980s and early 1990s has been mixed. Although most of the
developmernt objectives supported by the operations were eventually achieved, implementation
lagged. Implementation delays were the results of the disparity between expectations of quick
adjustment disbursements and the deliberate pace in concluding sensitive policy reforms. The
main lesson from this experience is that adjustment operations should be designed with early,
broad-based Government commnitment to policy reforms and timely implementation, and to
carefully link disbursements to clear and significant conditionality. Based on the lessons
learned, the proposed adjustment loan: (a) has been prepared by Mexican and Bank teams in
true partnership fashion, building on policy reforms already underway (as opposed to acting as
a trigger point), and (b) will be completed by a TAL (see para. 86 and Annex 8) which will
closely track programs under the adjustment operation and provide timely technical input as
needed.
77.   Cooirdination with IMF. The policy reforms supported under this operation, and in
particular the increased transparency of IMSS-related health care revenues and expenditures
and of the transfer mechanisms (i.e., the SSHF) are congruent with the IMF's objectives for
Mexico. Despite the lack of a current standby agreement (the last one expired a few months
ago), the IMF and the Government are in general agreement over fiscal policy. The IMF has
been consistently apprised of the progress of this operation and the policy reforms
contemplated therein, and has raised no objections.
26



IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Loan Description
78.   An adjustment loan of US$700 million is proposed, consisting of a US dollar single
currency loan to be disbursed in two tranches in accordance with conditions for tranche release
noted below and in the Matrix of Policy Actions (Annex 3). The Borrower is BANOBRAS,
S.N.C., with the guarantee of the United Mexican States, and the Implementing Agency is
IMSS. The first tranche of $350 million is to be available upon loan effectiveness, anticipated for
June 1998. The second tranche release of US$350 million is estimated to be available in the
second quarter of FY00. The loan is expected to be closed by June 2000. At that time, it is
expected that an APL will have been negotiated with the Government to ensure the continuity
of the ongoing reform program (see para. 71).
B. Loan Size and Tranche Conditionalities
79.   As detailed in the Matrix of Policy Actions, the loan would have conditionality based on
the objectives of strengthening the health insurance financing and regulatory framework,
assisting IMSS with the restructuring of the health care delivery organization, and preparing
the IMSS health care delivery network for increasing competition by reducing inefficiencies and
improving quality. Annex 2 also contains graphic representations of the operation's conceptual
framework and main conditionalities and of the linkages between the operation's objectives
and strategies and supporting actions under the TAL. The second tranche has been designed to
maximize the policy changes that can be achieved with each tranche (approximately 15-18
months apart), with the major policy decisions allocated under the first tranche and subsequent
tranche reinforcing the policy decision and supporting the development of key instruments. In
addition to the specific conditions listed below, tranche release would also be contingent on
compliance with the Letter of IMSS Health Insurance Development Policy and the effectiveness
conditions in the legal agreement.
Health Finance and Regulatory Framework
80.   Social Security Health Fund. The establishment of the SSHF is the principal risk
pooling mechanism to make health services more accessible and efficient, and over the
medium- to long-term it will promote horizontal integration among public and private
providers. The main measures and actions include:
First Tranche
(i)  SSHF approved by Consejo Tecnico of IMSS, via approval of operational guidelines
according to following principles: (a) contributing to risk pooling, limiting adverse
selection, and incorporating catastrophic risks; (b) promoting competition and user
choice, notably through subcontracting and opting-out; (c) developing contractual and
financing mechanisms that facilitate the development of an internal market in IMSS; (d)
maintaining the independent supervision capacity of the health system; and (e)
framework for investment through IDF;
(ii) IMSS legal opinion confirming legal basis of SSHF;
(iii) Presentation of Terms of Reference for strengthening the supervisory capacity of existing
control mechanisms for financial and health care delivery regulations, including: (a)
27



quality of care and user satisfaction; (b) monitoring management contractsl between
SSHF and MCOs, and MCOs and Providers; (c) increasing the availability of user
information; and (d) financial reporting and solvency requirements; and
(iv)  Presentation of a draft agreement between SHCP and IMSS regarding the regulatory and
institulional framework for the management of IMSS reserves, with specific emphasis on
the financing of health insurance reserves, management of outstanding liabilities, and the
IDF.
Mid-Tenn Review. Steps to be taken between First and Second Tranche (not disbursement
conditions).
(i)   Review of the design of the regulatory and supervisory framework proposed frr the SSHF; and
(ii)  Issuance of regulations for the management of the financial reserves of the IhSS health insurance
fund, including inter alia: (a) annual targets for IDF, management of other liabilities and general
reserves; (b) investment instruments; (c) guidelines for acceptable levels of financial risk; (d) scope
and timing of investments; and (e) minimum levels of liquidity.
Second Tranche
(i)   The SSHF has been operating since its inception in a manner fully consistent with the
SSHF Operational Guidelines, the SSHF Implementation Plan and applicable SSHF
reserves and liabilities management regulations;
(ii)  The Guarantor and IMSS have prepared a joint strategy for sound long-term management
of IMSS' liabilities; and
(iii) IMSS has established and is operating a database of IMSS beneficiaries, to serve as a
mechanism for administering and monitoring: (a) medical benefits paid by IMSS for its
beneficiaries; and (b) health service provider choices made by such beneficiaries.
81.   Increasing User Choice And Extending Coverage. The measures to be taken to increase
user choice and extend insurance coverage form the basis for ensuring the sustainable
implementation of the 1995 SSL. The measures outlined below would facilitate the gradual
introduction. of competition into the health care system by allowing IMSS members to opt out
of the system into private MCOs and would increase the opportunities for informal sector
workers and the self-employed to opt into a publicly subsidized health insurance scheme
within IMSS. The main actions and their timing include:
First Tranche
(i)   Presentation of Draft Regulations allowing for IMSS affiliates to opt out through the
prestaci6n indirecta program; and
(ii)  Presentation of an action plan for choice of primary health care physicians.
Mid-Term R1,eview. Steps to be taken belween First and Second Tranche (not disbursement
conditions).
(i)   Draft strategy allowingfor IMSS affiliates to choose among Medical Area Units;
0  These refer to purchasing agreements, or administrative arrangements, as referred to in the loan
agreement.
28



(ii)  Issuance of regulations and guidelines for firms to choose between IMSS and public and private
MCOs (opting-out), covering inter alia: (a) integrated health care model (benefits package) and
financing; (b) instruments to limit risk selection; (c) minimum quality standards; (d) financial
standards; (e) protection of users' rights; () penalties for non-compliance; and (g) supervision and
evaluation;
(iii)  Issuance of regulations and guidelines by IMSS allowing for free choice of physician in selected
Medical Area Units;
(iv)  Issuance of regulations and guidelines by IMSS governing opting-in.
Second Tranche
(i)  IMSS has prepared a strategy to allow beneficiaries to choose the Medical Area Unit from
which they will obtain medical services;
(ii)  IMSS has been allowing, and continues to allow, IMSS beneficiaries to choose alternative
insurance providers in order to be covered by public or private medical managed care
provision schemes, all in compliance with regulations issued by IMSS to that effect
(which regulations, inter alia, satisfactorily protect beneficiaries' rights by requiring
minimum service quality and financial soundness standards);
(iii) IMSS has been allowing, and continues to allow (in compliance with regulations issued
by IMSS to that effect), all IMSS beneficiaries in at least thirty Medical Area Units to
choose their own primary care physician from among those IMSS physicians belonging to
the beneficiaries' Medical Area Unit;
(iv)  In compliance with regulations issued by IMSS to that effect, at least 200,000 new
beneficiariesll have (during the period specified in the Loan Agreement) enrolled in the
IMSS publicly subsidized insurance system for the self-employed and informal sector
workers.
82.   Development Of Purchasing Mechanisms. The development of the purchasing function
is a critical aspect related to the introduction of competition among IMSS providers and
between IMSS providers and private providers. The measures to be taken focus on actions to
develop: (a) contractual arrangements between IMSS as financing agent (i.e., SSHF) and the
providers of health care services (IMSS and non-IMSS); (b) gradual implementation of resource
allocation mechanisms (capitation and diagnosis-based systems); (c) evaluation systems and
performance-based incentives.
First Tranche
(i)   Presentation of draft model management contracts and guidelines for contracting
between: (a) IMSS and Medical Area Units; and (b) IMSS and Specialty Hospitals; and
(ii)  Presentation of Terms of Reference for developing a patient classification system,
including an Action Plan for implementing a hospital payment system based on
diagnosis-related groups (DRGs), or some other patient classification system.
"New beneficiaries" excludes students (enrolling as such) and State or municipal workers, and the
number of "new beneficiaries" is calculated on a net basis (thus excluding those who enrolled in, but
subsequently dropped out of, the IMSS social security voluntary or obligatory regimes during the
measurement period in question).
29



Mid-Term Review. Steps to be taken between First and Second Tranche (not disbursement
conditions).
(i)  Reviewv progress on implementation of purchasing mechanisms and the introduction of new
provider reimbursement mechanisms.
Second Tranche
(i)  IMSS has signed and is implementing management contracts with at least thirty Medical
Area lJnits, whereby, inter alia: (a) IMSS will gradually allocate resotirces to such Medical
Area Units through risk-adjusted capitation mechanisms; (b) the performance of the
Medical Area Units will be assessed through specified evaluation systems; and (c)
incenlives will be established to reward improved Medical Area Unit health service
delivery performance;
(ii) Such capitation mechanisms are being fully applied, on a pilot basis, to reimburse
primary care physicians (in at least five of said thirty Medical Area Units) for their health
delivery services;
(iii) IMSS has presented to the Bank an evaluation of its experience withL the implementation
of the contracts referred to in point (i) above;
(iv) IMSS has signed and is implementing management contracts, with at least five of its
Specialty Hospitals, whereby, inter alia, IMSS is fully allocating resources to such
Specialty Hospitals through diagnosis related or patient classification. mechanisms;
(v)  Fifteen IMSS hospitals (other than the five Specialty Hospitals mentioned in point (iv)
above) have been using, and continue to use, diagnosis related or patient classification
systerns for internal administrative purposes.
Institutional Strengthening of IMSS
83.   Despite a number of important changes over the past three years in the organizational
structure of IMSS, the present structure remains overly centralized, with weak management
systems and little management autonomy and accountability at the decentralized levels. The
proposed reorganization will aim to address two key issues facing IMSS policymakers. First, to
promote the clear separation of financing and delivery of services, through the development of
internal market-based mechanisms and a process of decentralization and modernization of the
central level management. Second, the gradual introduction of competition - both among
IMSS providers and with private providers. This will require organizational changes within
the IMSS health services administration that will promote increased efficiency and quality in
the delivery of services by strengthening management, increasing accountability to patients,
introducing quality assurance, and more decision-making at local levels.
84.   IMSS Corporate Restructuring of lHealth Services Administration. The modernization
of IMSS within this reform framework would involve: (a) changing the vertical corporate
structure of the organization and administration to separate financing from provision; (b)
devolution of responsibility and authority from the center to sub-national levels - Regional
Directorates, Medical Area Units, and individual hospitals and clinics; and (c) redefinition of
the functions of the central level administration. The measures to be taken to support the
policy changes include:
First Tranche. The Government would present a Plan and Timetable for the completion of the
IMSS corporate restructuring, including:
30



(i)  Presentation of Action Plan and timetable for the corporate restructuring of IMSS Health
Care System ("Modelo Integral de Atenci6n a la Salud"); and
(ii) Approval by IMSS of guidelines for the operation of the Medical Area Units.
Mid-Term Review. Steps to be taken between First and Second Tranche (not disbursement
conditions).
(i) Presentation of a Corporate Restructuring Plan for IMSS health care system, including
organizational and functional changes for central level administration, development of Medical
Area Units, management of the health delivery network; and
(ii) Evidence of progress in designing and implementing restructuring plans in at least ten
budgetholding Medical Area Units.
Second Tranche
(i) IMSS has been, and continues to be, reforming its corporate structure in compliance with
the terms and timetable of a restructuring plan issued by IMSS (which plan, inter alia,
emphasizes the decentralization of IMSS administration to, and greater autonomy for and
competition among, Medical Area Units);
(ii) At least fifteen Medical Area Units and five Specialty Hospitals have each prepared
operational development plans for purposes of reforming administration of such Medical
Area Units and Specialty Hospitals; and
(iii) Each of said fifteen Medical Area Units and five Specialty Hospitals is implementing its
operational development plan referred to above, in accordance with such plan's terms.
85.   Strengthening the IMSS Health Care Delivery Network. The gradual liberalization of
the health insurance market and the need to improve quality and efficiency necessitate the
preparation of IMSS health care providers for competition. The measures to be taken will
support the development of activities in the Medical Area Units and the Specialty Hospitals to
improve quality and efficiency of the IMSS delivery system. The development activities to be
supported focus on improving management capacity at the point of service delivery, designing
and implementing financial performance incentives to measure and improve the performance
of providers and staff, implementing management information systems, introducing greater
accountability to patients through user advocacy boards and members representatives,
promoting quality assurance programs at all levels of the delivery network, and introducing
technology assessment to improve the cost-effectiveness of investments in technology and
equipment. The measures to be taken include:
First Tranche. The measures to be taken by board presentation would ensure IMSS
commitment to strengthen the health care delivery network through the following condition:
(i) Issuance of an IDF Operational Manual, including eligibility criteria and procedures to
request financial support from the IDF for development purposes, along with a 3-year
investment program for investment and approval of subprojects under the IDF.
Mid-Term Review. Steps to be taken between First and Second Tranche (not disbursement
conditions).
31



(i)  Compliance with operating guidelines for IDF; and
(ii)  The establishment of a Quality Assurance Board with a fully-defined membership, organization,
authority, functions, and responsibilities, and a draft Quality Assurance Program covering
operating procedures and an implementation plan.
Second Tranche
(i)  At least 60 percent of the funds included in the IDF Investment Program have been
committed in accordance with the provisions of the IDF Operational Manual;
(ii)  At least half of said committed funds have already been disbursed from the IDF to said
suppliers or contractors;
(iii) IMSS has been, and continues to be, improving the quality of its health care delivery
services, particularly in at least five Medical Area Units in urban zones, in accordance
with the terms of a quality assurance plan issued by IMSS and under the guidance of a
quality assurance board operating within IMSS; and
(iv) IMSS has taken, and continues to take, actions aimed at improving accountability
towards its beneficiaries, which actions include estabLishment of a consumer advisory
board at the national level, use of cLient satisfaction surveys and acceptance of beneficiary
representatives to act as formal contacts between IMSS and patients.
C. Technical Assistance
86.   To provide the Government with necessary technical resources to design and
implement the reform, a parallel TAL (loan of $25 million) has also been prepared and will be
presented to the Board concurrently with this operation. Terms of Reference for most of the
studies and technical assistance activities have been prepared and were reviewed during
appraisal. The TAL will include (a) direct technical assistance to help design and implement
poLicies andL regulations, (b) management training programs, (c) direct technical assistance to
selected Medical Area Units and Specialty Hospitals, (d) pubLic awareness campaigns, and (e) a
comprehensive evaluation component. The Technical Assistance program designed to support
this operation is described in Annex 7. A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) under the TAL will
help coordination, track progress of the reform, and support the meeting of conditionalities
under this loan.
D. Disbursement and Auditing
87.   Disbursements. The proposed health system reform will be supported by a World Bank
adjustment loan of US$700 million, to be disbursed in two tranches, according to the
distribution shown in the table below, and conditioned on a positive evaluation of progress
achieved in carrying out health reforms, on maintenance of a suitable macroeconomic
framework, and compliance with the conditions specified in paras. 80-85 and the Matrix of
Policy Actions (Annex 3).
Disbursement Plan (US$ million)
Source            i 1st Tranche  2nd Tranche |   Total
World Bank             350         350          700C
88.   BANOBRAS as the Borrower and financial agent for the loan would be responsible for
submitting'withdrawal applications and would maintain separate records and accounts for all
32



transactions under the Loan. The Borrower will open an account in the Central Bank. Upon
Bank notification of release for each tranche, proceeds of the loans will be deposited by the
Bank in this account at the request of the Government. If after deposit in this account, the
proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from non-
member countries, or goods or services in the standard negative list), the Bank will require the
Borrower to either: (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b)
refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the loan.
89.   Auditing. BANOBRAS will maintain separate records for all transactions under the
loan. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower will have the deposit account audited in
accordance with standard Bank requirements.
E. Lessons Learned
90.   The reform concept and process supported by the operation are of a long-term nature
and politically and institutionally involved. Nations that have followed reform principles
similar to those proposed include Germany, the Netherlands, Israel and, more recently, Russia,
as well as Latin American nations supported by the Bank, including Chile, Costa Rica, and
Argentina. All have evolved from employer-based insurance schemes. The key lesson learned
from the unfolding collective experience is that no two systems are alike and therefore each
system must be carefully considered on its own merits and its proper socio-economic context.
Nevertheless, the following universal lessons which are critical to the loan can be identified:
3  The need for political will and leadership. This has been demonstrated by the Govermment and
IMSS in their reform initiative and their active participation and ownership in the choice of
key project alternatives.
* Flexibility. Because of the nature of the reform process and the lessons learned, it is not
possible to anticipate all issues which will arise. However, the reform's ability to adapt to
issues as they arise is reflected in the structural nature of the loan and its conditionalities.
*  Cost of transition. Even rich nations tend to allocate resources toward reform design, and
not toward its implementation. This is often a key obstacle to reform, unwittingly
reinforcing innate political and institutional opposition. The size of the loan and the nature
of the Bank's technical support - including needed technical assistance under the parallel
TA operation, training, and pilot testing - provide Mexico with a unique opportunity to
overcome this obstacle.
*  Conditions for tranche release should be clearly defined and easily monitored for
compliance; and
*  Priorities for technical assistance should be carefully identified and supported with rigorous
supervision.
F. Monitoring And Reporting
91.   Monitoring and reporting will be facilitated through the close coordination of activities
and implementation agencies supported by the TAL and technical assistance from the Bank.
Under the TAL, IMSS will set up a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system to track
the implementation of the proposed reforms and measure their medium- to long-term effects
on the health care market. Results of the evaluation would serve as an input to IMSS and other
governmental bodies to make decisions on furthering the reform process. Under the TAL, a
33



PCU will also be financed, providing the Bank a convenient, single point of contact for the
implementation of the overall program. Performance indicators under the TAL also parallel
closely policy actions to be taken under the adjustment operation and will provide the Bank
with an early opportunity to assist the Government as needed during the implementation of the
reform.
G. Program Objective Categories
92.   The loan belongs to the category of Economic Management by helping the Government
develop policy and tools to limit the fiscal impact of health finance reform and stimulate
growth in the formal employment sector. The loan will also have long-term effects in Private
Sector Development by opening avenues for true private sector competition in the delivery of
publicly finamced health services. Poverty Alleviation would also be supported through the
extension of social security coverage to informal sector workers and the self-employed.
Additional support to the poverty reduction objectives would be attained indirectly by
improving the quality of IMSS health services, and thus health outcomes, and providing a
progressive subsidy favoring those workers earning less than 3 minimum salaries.
93.   Environmental Aspects. The program is not expected to have any environmental
impact; it has been thus rated C.
H. Impact, Benefits And Risks
94.   Benefits. The reform would contribute to the economy and society by: (a) reducing the
fiscal burden of the current health system and its concomitant potential distortions, while
improving its financial sustainability; (b) improving the system's efficiency; (c) providing
incentives for private sector participation; (d) raising the quality of care; and (e) increasing its
contribution to equity. The reform would ultimately contribute to greater welfare and
productivity, based on improved health status and satisfaction with the system. These benefits
would be attained through improved financing and allocation mechanisms and the creation of
internal markets, all of which should lead to greater accountability within the system.
Specifically, the modernization of the IMSS should result in the elimination of deficits and the
potential creation of monetary surpluses following efficiency gains, particularly in urban
centers.  These gains, combined with an improved corporate structure, appropriate
management, and incentive systems, would help IMSS to improve the quality of care and
service and to allocate its resources more eqcuitably.
95.   The r eform will have important macroeconomic effects for Mexico. The design and
implementation of a series of policy and regulatory changes will help to mitigate the long-term
financial liability of the Government with respect to IMSS health insurance through the design
of cost-containment strategies for IMSS and of regulations to limit the financial risk to IMSS
with regard to the opting-out and opting-in schemes. Lastly, the implementation of the
publicly subsidized health insurance program for the self-employed and informal sector
workers could have an important effect on labor market development and overall labor
productivity.
96.   Risks.  The greatest risk to the proposed operation is backsliding in political
commitment. While the current Government supports the reform of the health insurance, such
support needs to remain strong, active and visible to overcome resistance that will inevitably
arise in the course of the reform process. The use of two tranches, while intended to lock-in
policy reforms by the end of the current administration, may also introduce! undue rigidity into
34



loan conditionalities at the end of a hard-to-predict reform process. High-level officials in both
IMSS and SHCP have participated in preparing the reform program and give political support
to the process. Loan conditionalities have been carefully crafted to ensure an adequate balance
between flexibility and the need for identifiable and unambiguous minimum indicators of
policy reform progress. However, it will also be necessary to continue to internalize the reform
within the IMSS in order to ensure that personnel at all levels understand the reform objectives
and support it. To reduce opposition to change, the introduction of competition in the market
will advance in stages and will be accompanied by substantial financial and technical assistance
to the IMSS. To mitigate political risk of the operation, the accompanying technical assistance
project will support a major campaign to disseminate information on program actions and their
benefits to IMSS beneficiaries and the population at large.
97.   A second related risk is the difficulties that may arise within IMSS, both institutionally
and politically, in the decentralization of health services. Continued centralized decision-
making, budgeting and purchasing will inhibit efficiency improvement and competition. There
is strong support for the decentralization process which has already started at IMSS. The
information campaign and efforts to inform staff at IMSS regarding the reform process will
help overcome political resistance to the decentralization efforts. On the other hand, the TAL
includes important resources to help IMSS carry out the decentralization process with adequate
technical support.
98.   A third risk is the sheer technical complexity of the reform, which dictates that many
complementary activities be executed satisfactorily and in a highly coordinated fashion. Again,
the Technical Assistance Loan is designed to provide IMSS with important technical input to
support the implementation of the reform, such as the design of regulations, design of
enrollment database system, and direct technical assistance for institutional reform within
IMSS.
V. RECOMMENDATION
99.   I am satisfied that the proposed adjustment loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio Koch-Weser
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 1998
35



ANNEXES
1. Letter of IMSS Health Insurance Development Policy
2. Conceptual Framework and Linkages With TAL
3. Matrix of Policy Actions
4. Health System Reform - The Long-Term View
5. Social Security Health Fund
6. Corporate Restructuring of IMSS
7. Innovative Development Fund
8. Technical Assistance
9. Financial Projections Model
10. Glossary
11. Documents in the Project File
12. Economic Indicators
13. Status of Bank Group Operations in Mexico



Annex 1
Letter of Health Sector Development Policy
Page 1 of 6
LETTER OF HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
[TRANSLATION ]
Mexico City, May 20, 1998
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
Despite the economic crisis in late 1994, the Mexican government has made a series of
macroeconomic adjustments without abandoning structural change policies within key sectors
of the economy. In accordance with the 1995-2000 National Development Plan, the government
has placed particular importance on social development, endeavoring in particular to increase
spending on education and health and to make it more efficient, in compliance with the
constitutional requirement that efforts be constantly devoted to increasing equity in Mexican
society.
With regard to the Health Sector Reform Program for which the Mexican government is
requesting support from the World Bank, I am pleased to present for your consideration the
principles, objectives and strategies of the public policies that are being applied within the
Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS) over the 1995-2000 period as part of this Program.
The importance of the health sector reform project lies in the broad significance of activities in
this sphere, since they enable a society to maintain appropriate levels of family well-being and
security, increase the productivity of workers, and reduce losses due to illness. Moreover,
providing access to health services has a redistributive effect, and serves to reduce poverty.
The 1995-2000 Health Sector Reform Program establishes guidelines for IMSS. The latter is key
to the strategy of structural change launched more than three years ago by the Federal
Government to deal with deficiencies and new challenges in the area of health.
The long-term model for the reform seeks to establish a health system with universal coverage
based on the principle of solidarity, and granting all Mexicans access to a comprehensive range
of health services, regardless of their ability to pay. The intent is to promote efficiency and
quality in service delivery, creating a more competitive system and an effective regulatory
framework that will also foster, over the long term, the establishment of a financially viable
National Health System.
Health services in Mexico are currently facing a series of difficulties that are being addressed by
means of a long-term plan. The main problems are examined in the paragraphs below.
Centralization. The operations of public health agencies are characterized by a form of
centralization that tends to bureaucratize their procedures and resource allocation mechanisms,
as well as dilute responsibilities in their various control structures. This problem arises when
decision-making at the operational level lies with the institutional structure and not at the level
of the hospitals, medical units or regions, thus reducing the scope for establishing incentives to



Annex 1
Letter of Health Sector Development Policy
Page 2 of 6
reward good performance and hindering the timely delivery of services, the ability to control
costs, and efficient resource use.
Inadequate C'overage. A major cause for concern is that the coverage provided by the National
Health System is inadequate. According to Ministry of Health (SSA) figures, at the beginning
of the current administration more than 10 milLion Mexicans were without regular access to
health services. Most of them Live in scattered rural areas and in marginalized urban areas,
without access to social security or to SSA or federal services.
On the other hand, coverage is low among informal sector workers. Even though there exists
enough social and fiscal capacity to include them, a large portion of this population does not
belong to the social security system despite being economically active.
Inefficiencies in the Provision of Services. One of the obstacles to universal coverage has
been a dupLication of supply in some areas on the part of social security institutions, the private
sector, and SSA. This has resulted in increased spending on health and a reduction in the
system's effectiveness in providing universal access. Shortcomings in quality and timeliness of
services have led to duplication in financing. This problem provides an additional incentive for
consumers to under-report their real levels of income to IMSS, and for employers in the
informal sector to create jobs without social security coverage.
Given the importance of the measures adopted by the Institute and its relative importance as
the country's largest provider of medical services, it is inevitable that it has become the linchpin
of the reform, the basic objectives of which are as follows: expansion of coverage, increased
efficiency and equity in service delivery, and changes in the financing structure for providing
health services.
The activities to be implemented under the 1998-2000 program call for continuation of the
comprehensive IMSS modernization project that began with the 1994 legal reform. This led to
the establishment of the Regional Directorates and the beginnings of the process of
"deconcentrating" the Institute. IMSS received a strong boost as a result of the financial
strengthening provided for under the new Social Security Law, which became effective in July
1997. The above activities can be grouped tnder six guiding principles that define the various
policies and mechanisms, and these are described in greater detail below.
(1) Separation of Financing and Provision of Services
The purpose is to draw a clear distinction between the functions of financing services and
delivering them. Such separation enables resource allocation to be more responsive to the
community's health needs, as determined by its epidemiological and demographic
characteristics rather than its ability to pay. This provides advantages with regard to
transparency and the redistribution of income according to the principle of solidarity, these
being two of the underlying objectives of the social security system; the separation also helps
strengthen the management capacity of the units providing health services by transferring
effective responsibility to them.
The proposecd structure is based on aggregating all the health risks of the insured population
and providing financing through a common fund in which will be pooled all the contributions
from each of the various programs of medical insurance (i.e., Sickness and Maternity, including
resources for Pensioners' Medical Care; Family Health; and Workers Compensation), with
funds subsequently being transferred to the decentralized providers, in accordance with
prospective allocative mechanisms (i.e., capitation, adjusted for risk) and case-based payment



Annex 1
Letter of Health Sector Development Policy
Page 3 of 6
(diagnosis-related payment). It will be possible to extend this system of financing to cases in
which services are contracted out in accordance with the relevant legislation. It should be noted
that this policy in no way contravenes the requirement in the new law governing IMSS that
separate accounts must be maintained for recording income and expenditures for each line of
insurance.
A committee will be established to have responsibility for supervising the implementation of
these policies and regularly providing the IMSS Consejo T&nico with full information and
advice. It will oversee and report on progress toward the social security objectives of solidarity
and service, submitting this information to the higher government and supervisory authorities,
and to the general public.
The following are some of the main aims of this policy: (a) to guarantee that equitable rules
apply to the allocation of resources to units providing medical services; (b) to lay down
principles governing the establishment of contingency reserves for use when unforeseen events
threaten normal service delivery; (c) to define the capital investment budget and principles to
govern project appraisal; (d) to ensure that budgetary activities are consistent with the IMSS
integrated health care model and with policies for empowering beneficiaries.
(2) The "Deconcentration" of Powers and Responsibilities
The introduction of a new model of budgeting and resource allocation, as well as the separation
of the financing and service delivery functions, provide an opportunity for the introduction of a
new model of institutional management. IMSS began to study these budget models in 1995,
and since 1996 it has been gradually promoting their use in resource allocation and budgeting.
The basis for this strategy is to strengthen the IMSS Medical Area Units, making them into
institutions with greater autonomy as health-care providers. Although the IMSS Medical Area
Units have existed for some decades, the consensus is now their management capacity should
be strengthened so that the community can be involved in decision-making to a greater degree.
The changes call for action on the institutional strengthening of IMSS. Many of these measures
have focused on designing new institutional policies for managing human resources and
financial and administrative systems in keeping with the organizational changes. In addition,
new models of labor relations are being studied; these include the use of incentives for
increasing productivity and enhancing flexibility in personnel management.
(3) The Development of Transparent and Equitable Mechanisms for Resource Allocation
A key element in ensuring increased efficiency and equity in resource allocation is the
development of a risk-adjusted capitation system. As part of the first phase of the reform, this
resource allocation system has started being applied to the IMSS Medical Area Units. Since
1997, the budget allocated to each area has been partly based on capitation, and this project will
develop the necessary instruments for institutionalizing allocative mechanisms and ensuring
that they are properly supervised and evaluated.
At the same time, IMSS has made progress on studying systems for classifying patients, the
purpose being to increase its medical management capacity, as well as its capacity for cost
measurement, budgeting, and service planning. These systems will be gradually introduced
into the management process.



Annex 1
Letter of Health Sector Development Policy
Page 4 of 6
(4) Improvements in Quality and Timeliness in Care Delivery
One of the objectives of the reform is to improve the quality of services, and so considerable
efforts have been devoted to preparing additional measures that will directly contribute to this
purpose. Among these are the development of an IMSS quality control system, based on the
principles of continuous improvement, and strengthening of the participatory councils for
consumers, so that they can have a greater voice in the development of mechanisms for
improving service quality.
The modernization of IMSS's technological resources and of management is enabling it to
become more efficient and to be competitive with other providers, and this will lead to greater
client satisfaction.
Although in themselves the measures described above give adequate confidence with regard to
the potential success of the reform, it has been decided to seek additional support in the form of
technical assistance to support implementation of the reform over the next few years, together
with a public awareness campaign directed toward the general public and IMSS staff.
(5) The Gradual Introduction of Elements of Free Choice and Responsiveness to the Needs
of Beneficiaries
Our goal is to establish a flexible system of health care provision in which workers of both
sexes, retirees, and their beneficiaries will have greater freedom of choice with regard to their
physicians and institutions. Expanding the range of choice will make the health system as a
whole more responsive and lead to a greater degree of consumer satisfaction.
The first step will be to allow IMSS beneficiaries to choose their family physician from among
those available within the unit to which they belong. In the medium term, consumer choice
would be extended to apply to Medical Area Units as well as individual family physicians.
This measure will help create a favorable framework for increasing the efficiency of health
services by establishing incentives to productivity and efficiency.
Increased scope for choice enables demand to function as a mechanism for identifying which
physicians and institutions are the most able or provide the best services. Consequently, IMSS
intends to implement policies for rewarding good performance, measuring this by means of
productivity and efficiency indicators.
(6) IMSS' Investment Program
The allocation of capital investment resources must be complementary to the budgeting of
current expenditures, and in the short term the purpose of such allocation will be to correct any
inequalities in the installed capacity of facilities, in light of patients' needs.
The adoption of an Operational Manual for an Innovative Development Fund is intended to
regulate the financial allocations and investment in medical equipment and technology
undertaken by Medical Area Units and hospitals, thus improving IMSS' decision-making
capacity, modernizing the institution, and expanding hospital management capacity.
The allocation and appraisal process for capital investment projects will be imanaged as part of
the Social Security Health Fund. This is a resource allocation mechanism for promoting
competition at regional level among healtlh services providers so that those that prove best
fitted for the task and those with the most pressing needs will be responsiblie for implementing
investment projects relating to the provision of equipment and the improvement of hospital
management, thus increasing their operational efficiency. In addition, it will be possible to



Annex 1
Letter of Health Sector Development Policy
Page 5 of 6
increase the portion of health sector spending devoted to investment in technological
innovation. In addition, this mechanism represents:
*  An opportunity to extend the IMSS Investment Program to cover the considerable increases
in numbers of beneficiaries in newly emerging areas and overcoming the backlog resulting
from an excessively long period in which investment lagged behind needs;
*  The opportunity for technological renewal in the Institute, in accordance with criteria based
on social and medical cost-efficiency, given that-because of the investment backlog-all
too often it has to make do with obsolete technology that is expensive to operate and is less
medically efficient than is desirable and possible;
*  The generation of resources for priority medical research and technology production, while
ensuring their continuity;
*  A guarantee that all project preparation and implementation relating to investment in
equipment and hospital management would meet the real needs of beneficiaries;
*  A more appropriate targeting of resources, so that they will be allocated where they are
most needed and/or best utilized.
Establishing the Fund will make it possible to overcome one of the most serious problems
confronting the Medical Area Units; i.e. the lack of adequate and timely resources for
undertaking the infrastructure investment projects necessary for their efficient operation. It is
very important to note that initially every equipment investment project will have to be
combined with a management improvement program on the part of the hospitals and units
making up IMSS' provider network.
Over the last two years, IMSS has made considerable efforts to increase its project appraisal and
management capacity, and it has prepared an Investment Program for the 1998-2000 period
that will make it possible to renovate its infrastructure and increase its development in newly
emerging areas. Over the last several months, IMSS has worked with the Ministry of Finance to
develop a Financial Management Strengthening Program in IMSS under the provisions of the
federal decree for budgetary management. This project was recently approved by IMSS'
Consejo Tecnico and will be presented to the Comision Intersecretarial de Gasto-
Financiamiento in order to finalize the Financial Management Strengthening Program. An
important element of this process will be a significant increase in the Institute's 1998-2000
investment program. The Financial Management Strengthening Program will help maintain
IMSS' financial equilibrium in both the short- and long-term while preserving its ability to react
in an appropriate manner both to potentially significant increases in demand and to address
past deficiencies in the investment program.
(7) Evaluation of Reform Policies and Activities and their Impact on Health Care Provision
and Health Outcomes
The objective of the activities referred to above is to improve health conditions for the
population. In addition to its deconcentration policy, IMSS has evaluated its management
information systems, and has developed systems covering epidemiological information and
medical and hospital activities. The Institute plans to strengthen and introduce innovations in
its productive activities and in the gathering and analysis of data, to improve the quality of
information, and to adopt innovative measures for strengthening the management capacity of
its operational units. It is believed that this evaluation will provide a basis for improving
management, enhancing its policies, and guiding the general public and raising its awareness
so as to obtain its support and cooperation.



Annex I
Letter of Health Sector Development Policy
Page 6 of 6
The above policies and measures confirm the role of the state as the financing source for the
health system while recognizing the need to strengthen the Institute's care provider units
while, at all times, putting the beneficiary as the heart of the system with respect to both
resource allocation and service quality assessment.
Thus, we can be sure that this is a solidly based project that will bring about continuous
improvements in Mexico's health sector, which we acknowledge to be the key to economic and
social development and one of the best investments that our country can make.
Jose Angel Gurria Trevifio                      Genaro Borrego
Minister of Finance                       Director General, IMSS



Annex 2
Conceptual Framework
Page 1 of 2
CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK - OBJECTIVES, STRATEGIES, AND MAIN CONDITIONALITIES
Strategies            Develop & implement regulatoly framework                   Institultional strengthening of IMSS   J
Develop &   1
Separate financing     Increase user         implement             Change IMSS          Strengthen IMSS
Acfivities      hom provision:      choice and extend        ipurcasng          Coroange stutMS       health care delivery
SSHF                coverage            mnechasns           c r        t              network
..........................................................................
SSHF established      Action planfor         Draft model             TORsfor
according to       choice of primary       management           development of       Approval of IDF
agreed principles     care physician          contracts          rucorporate         ____within SSHF__
M  restructuring plan _  _              I
Board             TORs to                                 TORsfor patient         Operational
Actons            strengthen         Draft regulations      classification        guidelines for
$350            supervisory          for opting-out      system (capitation     MA Us approved
million           capa city    J    ________&  DRG)                            ________
Draft agreement 1
b/w SHCP &
IMSS re: reserves
policy
............... *...........................................................
Mid-Term                             Rgltos&PietCorporate
Review        SSHF rules &          Rguidlaiones re Pa lsatient               restructuring plan     IDF underway;
Indicators    issuedtpogs           user choice and           syses                fincludi n 
(supported  issued, progress  (b) opting-in        (capitation &            inclung     |aj
(sup j,orted under database          issued           DRG) developed         Implementationesalhd
under TAL)                                                                         action plans
..........................................................................
SSHFfully    1   Choice of primary      New management        At least 15 MA Us     60% of lDFfunds
operational, inc. I     physician          contracts signed       and 5 SHs fully       committed andl
regulations         available in at       wl at least 30      functional under       30% disbursed
I ruln |least 30 MA Us         MA Us              new structure   | _|_0%_________
Main
Tranche 2   |   Strategyfor           User choice        New management                                QA program
Actions       management of        available as per      contracts signed                            operational in at
$350     [    liabilities           regulations        w/ at least 5 SHs                             least S MA Us
million            ..            _
Enrollment           200,000 new        DRCsystem used
database     I     I MSSaffiliates       in at least IS
operational       through opting-in        hecosialy
!  _   I I                  l l    ~~~~~~~~~hospitals I



Annex 2
Conceptual Framework
Page 2 of 2
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
LINKAGES TO ADJUSTMENT OPERATION AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
~~g~ H    oinh 
I 1   W                                        TA Wo h-bSi.                                                                                                  .
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ~ ~ ~ ~     D
TAf.,hMi-t. ;--i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Iopn.n.Ao&ppff
l~~~~~~~~-b "4-
11  & hrsplbl qul~~~~~~D..Ipn,.,t of .   .
1 ~  ~      ~     ~      .~..o OSO b  TA          ___ __ __ ___ __ __ __ol_ __ _.______ _______   _-_i  benspol*_____  ________
Ti   T_               snben~~~~~Id MIA.. d SH.
h~~~~~~~~~~~ D'1PM.1s                            r TA e: TA... br.1iig. 
_-               F.W9A        W hr-Mrt SSHF i IDCF
T      W E I  I    ~pl, *,nd TAbr                                                                                         ___o____   ._____.phn.. m 0 nb    ppo.fj       ---~  ._____ _
T  tot    I.n,.nbin of DRG,
I;w4.Mais]~~~~~~0~ .s r                                                                                                           
TAL ;                                          to d n   of |
|   ~      I i                                                ___________                                                                                                                    __|D  |  ||r p hlm t
I i. s tU i    |   | d nrs nl d   .bir 
|~~~~~~~~~~~~*. (,k 8. Ta           - ct
I    \$S    II>    
t    |   ' r    _     _|   _    _    __armb&   E__        _ ___________________pmb   nbmopo.-_____                                                              1                  I              _ _ _
! P *F I re    I   I    DRG dnwbpninnl |   I    I                                                                      I                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DG ooIp..fshot~.0~~.goAto  060
i    Jun    |  |   Sep               Dec                 MAr                Jun               Sep                Dec                 Mar                Jun                Sep
1998                                                           1999                                                                        2000
Firrt                                                                                           /Second\
Tranche                                                                                         T  \Z ranohe 



Annex 3
Matrix of Policy Actions
Page 1 of 7
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, to be monitored as part of the overall program implementation
Steps to be taken between
Component                            First Tranche                    First and Second Tranche                  Second Tranche
(Mid-Term Review)
I. General Conditions
A. Maintenance of Overall Policy     Presentation of Signed Policy Letter
Framework
Compliance with loan agreement                                              Compliance with loan agreement section
effectiveness conditions                                                    2.02 (d) conditions
II. Health Finance and Regulatory Framework
A. Reforms to Health Insurance Financing  SSHF approved by Consejo Tecnico of IMSS,                               The SSHF has been operating since its
in IMSS                           via approval of operational guidelines                                      inception in a manner fully consistent
according to following principles:                                          with the SSHF Operational Guidelines,
(i) contributing to risk pooling, limiting                                  the SSHF Implementation Plan and
adverse selection, and incorporating                                     applicable SSHF reserves and liabilities
catastrophic risks;                                                      management regulations;
(ii) promoting competition and user choice,
notably through subcontracting and
opting-out;
(iii) developing contractual and financing
mechanisms that facilitate the
development of an internal market in
IMSS;
(iv) maintaining the independent
supervision capacity of the health
system; and
(v) framework for investment through IDF;
IMSS legal opinion confirming legal basis of
SSHF; and



Annex 3
Matrix of Policy Actions
Page 2 of 7
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, to be monitored as part of the overall program implementation
[                                                                            1      Steps to be taken be b een     1                                     I
Component                             First Tranche                    First and Second Tranche                  Second Tranche
(Mid-Term Review)
Presentation of Terms of Reference for  Review of the design of the regulatory
strengthening the supervisory capacity of    and supervisory framework proposed for
existing control mechanisms for financial    the SSHF;
and health care delivery regulations,
including:
(i) quality of care and user satisfaction;
(ii) monitoring management contracts;
between SSHF and MCOs, and MCOs
and Providers;
(iii) increasing the availability of user
information;
(iv) financial reporting and solvency
requirements; and
Presentation of a draft agreement between                                    The Guarantor and IMSS have prepared a
the SHCP and IMSS regarding the        Issuance of regulations for the       joint strategy for sound long-term
regulatory and institutional framework for   management of the financial reserves of    management of IMSS liabilities; and
the management of IMSS reserves, with  the IMSS health insurance fund, including
specific emphasis on the financing of health  inter alia:
insurance reserves, management of      (i) annual targets for IDF, management
outstanding liabilities and the IDF        of other liabilities and general
reserves;
(ii) investment instruments;
(iii) guidelines for acceptable levels of
financial risk;                   IMSS has established and is operating a
(iv) scope and timing of investments, and  database of IMSS beneficiaries, to serve as
(t) minimum levels of liquidity      a mechanism for administering and
monitoring: (a) medical benefits paid by
IMSS for its beneficiaries; and (b) health
service provider choices made by such
beneficiaries
These refer to purchasing agreements, or administrative arrangements, as referred to in the loan agreement



Annex 3
Matrix of Policy Actions
Page 3 of 7
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, to be monitored as part of the overall program implementation
Steps to be taken between
Component                               First Tranche                      First and Second Tranche                     Second Tranche
(Mid-Term Review)
B. Increasing user choice and       Presentation of Draft Regulations allowing    Draft strategy allowing for IMSS affiliates  IMSS has prepared a strategy to allow
extending coverage of voluntary    for IMSS affiliates to opt out2 through the  to choose among Medical Area Units;  beneficiaries to choose the Medical Area
affiliation insurance within IMSS    prestacion indirecta program; and                                             Unit from which they will obtain medical
(opting-out and opting-in)                                                                                         services.;
(i) Facilitating user choice and                                              Issuance of regulations and guidelines for  IMSS has been allowing, and continues to
competition amongst Medical Area                                           firms to choose between IMSS and public   allow, IMSS beneficiaries to choose
Units and MCOs;                                                            and private MCOs (opting-out), covering   alternative non-IMSS insurance providers
inter alia:                             in order to be covered by public or private
(i) integrated health care model (benefits  medical managed care provision schemes,
package) and financing;             all in compliance with regulations issued
(ii) instruments to limit risk selection;  by IMSS to that effect (which regulations,
(iii) minimum quality standards;       inter alia, satisfactorily protect
(iv) financial standard;                beneficiaries' rights by requiring
(v) protection of users' rights;        minimum service quality and financial
(vi) penalties for non-compliance; and  soundness standards).;
(vii) supervision and evaluation
(ii) Promoting user choice of primary    Presentation of an action plan for choice of   Issuance of regulations and guidelines by   IMSS has been allowing, and continues to
physicians; and                  primary health care physicians            IMSS allowing for free choice of physician  allow (in compliance with regulations
in selected Medical Area Units; and     issued by IMSS to that effect), all IMSS
beneficiaries in at least thirty Medical
Area Units to choose their own primary
care physician from among those IMSS
physicians belonging to the beneficiaries'
Medical Area Unit;
2   In the IMSS case, "opting-out" refers to a system where beneficiaries choose to receive health benefits through alternative providers, which will guarantee a minimal level of service
provision in exchange for a fixed fee based on a risk-adjusted capitated payment scheme. However, they remain part of overall social security financing and insurance system.
Conversely, "opting-in" refers to new entrants into the IMSS health care system, ostensibly from the self-employed and informal sector populations.



Annex 3
Matrix of Policy Actions
Page 4 of 7
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, to be monitored as part of the overall program implementation
Steps to be taKen Detween
Component                              First Tranche                     First and Second Tranche                   Second&Tranche;; 
(Mid-Term Review)
(iii)Promoting the extension of                                             Issuance of regulations and guidelines by   In compliance with regulations issued by
coverage through voluntary                                               IMSS governing opting-in               IMSS to that effect, at least 200,000 new
affiliation insurance (opting-in)                                                                               beneficiaries3 have (during the period
specified in the Loan Agreement)
enrolled in the IMSS publicly subsidized
insurance system for the self-employed
and informal sector workers
C. Development of Purchasing       Presentation of draft model management   Review progress on implementation of    IMSS has signed and is implementing
Mechanisms                      contracts and guidelines for contracting  purchasing mechanisms and the         management contracts with at least thirty
between:                                introduction of new provider           Medical Area Units, whereby, inter alia:
(a) IMSS and Medical Area Units; and    reimbursement mechanisms               (i) IMSS shall gradually allocate
(b) IMSS and Specialty Hospitals; and                                          resources to such Medical Area Units
through risk-adjusted capitation
Presentation of Terms of Reference for                                         mechanisms; (ii) the performance of the
developing a patient classification system,                                    Medical Area Units shall be assessed
including an Action Plan for implementing                                      through specified evaluation systems; and
a hospital payment system based on                                             (iii) incentives shall be established to
diagnosis-related groups (DRGs), or some                                       reward improved Medical Area Unit
other patient classification system                                            health service delivery performance;
Such capitation mechanisms are being
fully applied, on a pilot basis, to
reimburse primary care physicians (in at
least five of said thirty Medical Area
Units) for their health delivery services;|
3   "New beneficiaries" excludes students (enrolling as such) and State or municipal workers, and the number of "new beneficiaries" is calculated on a net basis (thus excluding those who
enrolled in, but subsequently dropped out of, the IMSS social security voluntary or obligatory regimes during the measurement period in question).



Annex 3
Matrix of Policy Actions
Page 5 of 7
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, to be monitored as part of the overall program implementation
Steps to be taken between
Component                            First Tranche                    First and Second Tranche                  Second Tranche
(Mid-Term Review)
IMSS has presented to the Bank an
evaluation of its experience with the
implementation of the management
contracts referred to above;
(IMSS has signed and is implementing
management contracts, with at least five
of its Specialty Hospitals, whereby, inter
alia, IMSS is fully allocating resources to
such Specialty Hospitals through
diagnosis related or patient classification
mechanisms;
Fifteen IMSS hospitals (other than the five
Specialty Hospitals mentioned above)
have been using, and continue to use,
diagnosis related or patient classification
systems for internal administrative
purposes
III. Institutional Strengthening of IMSS
A. Corporate Restructuring and       Presentation of Action Plan and timetable    Presentation of a Corporate Restructuring  IMSS has been, and continues to be,
management decentralization of IMSS  for the corporate restructuring of IMSS  Plan for IMSS health care system,  reforming its corporate structure in
Health Care System                Health Care System ("Modelo Integral de    including organizational and functional   compliance with the terms and timetable
Atenci6n a la Salud"); and             changes for central level administration,   of a restructuring plan issued by IMSS
development of Medical Area Units,   (which plan, inter alia, emphasizes the
management of the health delivery    decentralization of IMSS administration
network; and                         to, and greater autonomy for and
competition among, Medical Area Units);



Annex 3
Matrix of Policy Actions
Page 6 of 7
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, to be monitored as part of the overall program implementation
Steps to be taken between
Component                            First Tranche                    First and Second Tranche                 Second Tranche
(Mid-Term Review)
Approval by IMSS of guidelines for the  Evidence of progress in designing and  At least fifteen Medical Area Units and
operation of the Medical Area Units   implementing restructuring plans in at    five Specialty Hospitals have each
least ten budgetholding Medical Area  prepared operational development plans,
Units.                               for purposes of reforming administration
of such Medical Area Units and Specialty
Hospitals; and
Each of said fifteen Medical Area Units
and five Specialty Hospitals is
implementing its operational
development plan referred to above, in
accordance with such plan's terms.
B. Strengthening the IMSS health care  Issuance of an IDF Operational Manual,  Compliance with operating guidelines for  At least 60 percent of the funds included
delivery network                  including eligibility criteria and procedures  IDF; and                     in the IDF Investment Program have been
to request financial support from the IDF for                               committed in accordance with the
development purposes, along with a 3 year                                   provisions of the IDF Operational
investment program for investment and                                       Manual;
approval of subprojects
At least half of said committed funds have
already been disbursed;
The establishment of a Quality Assurance  lMSS has been, and continues to be,
Board with a fully-defined membership,   improving the quality of its health care
organization, authority, functions, and  delivery services, particularly in at least
responsibilities, and a draft Quality  five Medical Area Units in urban zones, in
Assurance Program covering operating    accordance with the terms of a quality
procedures and an implementation plan.   assurance plan issued by IMSS and under
the guidance of a quality assurance board
operating within IMSS; and



Annex 3
Matrix of Policy Actions
Page 7 of 7
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, to be monitored as part of the overall program implementation
Steps to be taken between
Component                             First Tranche                    First and Second Tranche                  Second Tranche
(Mid-Term Review)
IMSS has taken, and continues to take,
actions aimed at improving accountability
towards its beneficiaries, which actions
include establishment of a consumer
advisory board at the national level, use
of client satisfaction surveys and
acceptance of beneficiary representatives
to act as formal contacts between IMSS
and patients
C. Investrnent in Technical assistance
D. Public Awareness Campaign on IMSS                                         Presentation of Communication Strategy
Reform                                                                       for Public Awareness Campaign



Annex 4
The Long-Tern View
Page 1 of 4
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM - THE LONG-TERM VIEW
1.    Reform Objectives. The Government reform program for the health sector focuses on
four main objectives: (a) to limit the fiscal impact of the proposed health insurance reforms and
promote financial transparency in the management of resources; (b) to increase health coverage
under the social security system; (c) to promote better quality and efficiency in services
provision; and (d) to introduce accountability and supervision in health care delivery and
finance.
2.    Responsibility for health care provision is assigned mainly to the SSA and IMSS, with
the former concentrating on low-income groups with no capacity for pre-payment, who live
mainly in rural areas and lack access to multiple health providers. In addition, many of the
urban and rural poor are covered by the IMSS-Solidaridad program. To facilitate the extension
of its health services, the SSA is in the process of decentralizing the provision of services to the
states. IMSS would in turn extend social security benefits to those who were previously outside
the system, namely the unemployed and those in the informal sector. Under the proposed
reform, these populations would enjoy access to medical services through a voluntary co-
payment scheme partly financed by the state.
3.   Improved quality and efficiency would be obtained by: (a) introducing greater choice of
health care providers; (b) assigning clear goals, management responsibilities and instruments to
public health providers and MCOs; (c) establishing minimum accreditation standards for
providers and eligibility criteria for MCOs; and (d) clear and equitable expenditures allocation
mechanisms. Finally, accountability will be introduced into the system through clear rules and
regulations to be followed by providers and health care management institutions,
decentralization of decision-making and management in public health care and social security
institutions and supervision of compliance with approved regulation and management
contracts.
4.    The Long-Term Model. A long-term view would have as an end result, or structure of
the reform process, would be a model in which: (i) an essential health package is defined and
accessible to the full population; (ii) the responsibility for the provision of health services to the
population with no pre-payment capacity is assigned to SSA; (iii) a single fund receives
resources from all sources (government contributions, employers and employees)
corresponding to all social security institutions (IMSS, ISSSTE, PEMEX, and others) and
transfers resources to managed care organizations (MCOs) -- including public, e.g., IMSS
Medical Area Units, or non-public, e.g. private HMOs or MCOs - on a risk adjusted, capitation
basis; (iv) the MCOs assume the risk of delivering the services included in the comprehensive
care package with the capitated allocation from the SSHF and rules are set in place to resolve
market failures; (v) the internal market is fully developed, whereby the IMSS Medical Area
Units and MCOs purchase services from public and private providers which comply with
minimum accreditation criteria and standards for service delivery; (vi) there is an independent
supervisory capacity to ensure that the services provided meet quality and financial
regulations; (vii) additional market mechanisms are fully operational to allow the Medical Area
Units and MCOs to act as budgetholding organizations, purchasing services for their
populations from IMSS and other Specialty Hospitals; and (viii) there is a fully developed
market for supplementary health insurance to complement the comprehensive care package
with a supplemental package providing for improved quality and service.



Annex 4
The Long-Term View
Page 2 of 4
5.   Instnoments and Timing. The long-term model requires the implementation of a set of
instruments which will start with the proposed loan, some of which need to be in place in order
to implement the others (see Policy Matrix, Annex 1). The instruments and sequence are as
follows:
A. Definition of Integrated Health Care Model: The SSA has defined a basic health package
for the population without pre-payment capacity. Access to such package for the target
population, as well as the strengthening of SSA is being implemented with Bank support
through the Second Basic Health Care Project (3943-ME). The benefits provided under the
integrated health care model to be provided by Medical Area Units and MCOs would be set in
monetary terms in order to fix annual health expenditure caps and annual spending increases.
The expenditure levels established in such fashion would then be allocated on the basis of a
capitated patyment system. DRGs will be incorporated as payment mechanism, specially for the
high-cost and high-technology medical services not included in the comprehensive package.
B. Establishment of a Capitated System of Payment for Service Delivery: In such a system,
Medical Area Units and MCOs are paid on a per capita basis, adjusted for risk, for managing
and organizing the delivery of services to affiliates registered under their umbrella. It is most
important that the capita payment be adequately priced in relation to the comprehensive
package to be delivered. It is also important that rules be clearly set regarding the delivery of
services (secondary and tertiary) not included within the comprehensive health package. IMSS
initiated the implementation of capitation system in 1997, and further expanded the system to
the 139 Meclical Area Units for the budget year 1998. Despite the considerable achievements, it
is necessary' to improve the capitation formula, which currently includes only age and sex, to
include additional variables that serve as proxies for demand and the cost of care.
C. IMSS Corporate Structure - Health Insurance: The decentralization process within IMSS
requires substantial efforts of institutional strengthening and time. Adequate decentralization
of activities and management from the Central Level to Specialty Hospitals and Medical Area
Units requires that: (i) decision-making be transferred to the adequate decentralized level; (ii)
resources flow smoothly to the decentralized decision-making authorities; and (iii) the
decentralized units have adequate institutional capacity (budgeting and accounting procedures,
procurement system, governing bodies, and intemal control and information systems). The
decentralized units - namely Medical Area Units and Specialty Hospitals - would be fully
built up and conform to a structure in line with the long term view of the IMSS corporate
structure anLd health system. The Governrment, with support from the Bank, has already started
the decentralization of the SSA through block grants to the states. Sinmilarly, IMSS started
decentralizing activities from the center to seven Regional Directorates and 139 Medical Area
Units.
* Central Level: The Central Level, incluLding SSHF and other normative offices, will have the
following functions and responsibilities: (i) regulation of activities under its responsibility,
including the establishment of financial and accounting standards, administrative
procedures, contractual requirements, minimum accreditation requirements; (ii) collection
of funds and allocation of resources to MCOs on a capitated basis; (iii) policy on
management information systems; (iv) human resource policy and management
development; (v) procurement regulation and the negotiation of national reference prices
for certain goods; (vi) supervision of dLecentralized activities, quality assurance and clinical
audits; (vii) liaison with other health care organizations; and technical support to Specialty
Hospitals and Medical Area Units.



Annex 4
The Long-Term View
Page 3 of 4
* Regional and Delegational Offices: Regional and Delegational Offices will serve mainly to
support the Medical Area Units. The Medical Area Units will be entities with significant
responsibilities and may face some initial difficulty in recruiting skilled staff, notably
accountants.   To support the Medical Area Units with  their newly-delegated
responsibilities, these Offices will provide technical support and supervision to the Medical
Area Units related to planning, public health programs, procurement procedures,
management information systems, human resources management and training, and quality
assurance and audit.
*  Medical Area Units: The Medical Area Units will be responsible for providing primary,
secondary and preventive care, under an integrated care model, for an average population
of 260,000 beneficiaries. Over the medium term, they will act as budgetholding institutions,
purchasing tertiary health care services from Specialty Hospitals under a second internal
market. A Medical Area Unit will typically comprise several Family Health Units and one
or more secondary hospital. Management of the Medical Area Unit will be under the
authority of a Medical Area Unit Director and a Medical Area Unit committe with
participation of all health facilities in the Medical Area Unit. The main management
functions will include: (i) financial accounting and budgetary control; (ii) procurement of
equipment and supplies; (iii) facilities management and maintenance; (iv) human resources
management and training; (v) public health and infectious disease control; (vi) quality
assurance and utilization review; (vii) management information systems; and (viii)
planning and contracting of services.
* Specialty Hospitals: During the first phase of the reforms, these facilities will continue to
provide services to the IMSS members, receiving budgetary allocations from the central
level SSHF that will be linked to overall production and quality. Over the medium-term,
the 41 Specialty Hospitals would provide tertiary care and other specialized services to
Medical Area Units through a contracting process whereby Medical Area Units obtain the
services they require by means of specific administrative agreements, specifying: (i)
services to be provided; (ii) number of procedures to be produced; (iii) cost per procedure;
(iv) referral process; (v) length of contract; (vi) arrangements for termination; (vii) variation,
extension or renewal of contract; (viii) reimbursement mechanisms; and (ix) quality and
efficiency indicators to be used in the evaluation process. Specialty Hospitals will also be
allowed to sell their services to MCOs. Along the lines of the Medical Area Units, and to
enable them to operate efficiently, the Specialty Hospitals will have responsibility for
financial accounting and budgetary control, procurement, human resource management
and other functions to ensure managerial autonomy and accountability.
D. Risk Pooling and the Separation of Financing and Provision: The Social Security Health
Fund: The pooling of risks under a unique financing system is designed to contain costs,
promote equity, extend access and promote greater quality of care and value for money. The
separation of financing and provision and the introduction of provider compensation systems
are important steps in order to ensure that the system is managed transparently, efficiently and
under an even playing field for all institutions involved. The separation of financing and
provision requires that the activities being provided be governed by explicit management
contracts between the financing agency and the provider.
Establishing a Social Security Health Fund (SSHF) will carry out the pooling of risks and the
separation of financing and provision within IMSS. The SSHF will play a fundamental role in
developing the potential for increased choice and competition established within the health



Annex 4
The Long-Term View
Page 4 of 4
system introduced by the 1995 SSL. The SSHF will pool funds of those who opt out of IMSS, as
weDL as fund s from those workers who opt into (mainly the self-employed and informal sector
workers). The SSHF will pool resources from the IMSS Sickness and Maternity, Family Health
Insurance Program (SSFAM), Pensioners' Medical Care and additional payments for health
care services from the Workers compensation program (Riesgos de Trabajo).
Resource allocation to each Medical Area Unit and, eventually, to MCOs will be based on a
capitation basis adjusted for factors such as age, sex, regional morbidity and mortality indices
of the MCOs geographic area of influence. Over the short-term, the central office SSHF will
continue to act as a purchaser of care from the Specialty Hospitals, aDLocating budgetary
transfers in function of actual production levels and compliance with quality-related
parameters. Over the long-term, the Specialty Hospitals will have to compete for resources
from budget holding Medical Area Units purchasing services through DRG, and from private
sector MCOs. The risk pooling would be consolidated in the long-term, as the SSHF would
pool all mandatory health contributions in the Mexican system, including those of other public
health insurance institutions. As such, the SSHF could evolve into a national health insurance
fund open to all other medical institutions in the Mexican health care system and purchasing
services from all public and non-public providers, or MCOs (see Annex 5 for additional
information on the structure and operating procedures of the SSHF).



Annex 5
SSHF
Page 1 of 9
SOCIAL SECURITY HEALTH FUND (SSHF)
I.  Objectives
1.    The proposed reform takes advantage of the potential of the Social Security Law (SSL)
while overcoming the legislation's potential risks and the system's weaknesses. The proposed
system follows the principles of health system financing reform in OECD nations and avoids
critical perils of legislation similar to the SSL in other Latin American nations.
2.    The proposed health financing system has four interrelated parts. The first deals with
the link between the federal budget and IMSS health budget, which could be extended to other
medical institutions and to a federal health financing system. This part aims to provide an
optimal fiscal framework for the management of the national health budget. The second part
concerns the establishment and operations of a new Social Security Health Fund (SSHF) that
would become, in the long term, a national health financing institution for the entire system.
This part aims to promote a national health policy while improving user choice and efficiency
through competition. The third part addresses the issue of private-public mix mainly from the
perspective of health finance. Here the effort is to try to harness private finance in a way that
would contribute to the entire system. The last part concerns the financing of investments
through the establishment of an Innovative Development Fund, part of the SSHF, that would
rationalize investments in the system and provide resources for its modernization. This section
is detailed in Annex 7.
II. General Revenues and the IMSS Health Budget
3.   Issues.  IMSS' health budget is financed through mandatory contributions by
employees, employers, and the federal budget. The SSL shifts a major burden of health
financing to the federal budget. This in itself is, in principle, a desirable move. First, it could
align health finance with principles similar to those of the rest of public finance. Second, it
could make the allocation to health part of overall social and economic policy. These principles
govern the so-called Commonwealth health systems (e.g., the United Kingdom, Australia, and
the Scandinavian nations) where health is financed principally through general revenues.
4.    As per the SSL,  IMSS health revenues are driven by legally pre-determined
contributions from all three sources. These revenues are not subject to either health or overall
fiscal policy. Specifically, the levels of funding available to IMSS are unrelated to:
*  a normative level of health spending;
*  the efficiency of IMSS health operations;
*  the direct tax burdens of IMSS finance; and
*  the fiscal burden of IMSS revenues on the budget.
5.   In addition, the financial reserves accruing to IMSS due to the SSL, in the absence of
organizational reforms, are likely to (a) induce an increase in the cost of care delivered by IMSS
and (b) increase further inequities in the system. This situation needs to be remedied under the
proposed Government reform program with support from the Bank loan, to enable the
Government to define sustainable policies that will maximize the health and welfare of the
population. The solutions proposed here are meant to be consistent with the SSL and with a
sound macro-economic and fiscal management of the health system.



Annex 5
SSHF
Page 2 of 9
6.    Objectives. The health financing system involving the government and IMSS needs to
be looked at from both the perspective of IMSS (or eventually the entire health system) as well
as the economy as a whole.' From the perspective of IMSS health system, the objectives should
be:
* a stable, sustainable, and controllable flow of revenues over time;
* minimum exposure of financial reserves to the impact of general inflation;
* minimum exposure of financial reserves to financial risk (unrelated to inflation);
* maximize the potential to use surpluses in the health insurance financing to absorb the one-
time costs associated with the structural reform of IMSS
7.    It is desirable to minimize the unanticipated downward swings in health financing that
can follow general inflation, and declining levels of income (mainly from wages) during the
business cycle.2 In part, these issues are addressed by the changes in the health financing
system which include two elements that make the financing system sielf-correcting. First,
health insurance revenues are indexed to inflation and the minimum wage, thus passing the
inflation risk to the central government and protecting IMSS from the shocks. Second, the
possibility of declining levels of income limiting IMSS revenues is mitigated by the link
between expenditures (clearly linked to wages) and income; if income were to fall from a fall in
wages, expenditures would fall in parallel to maintain financial equilibriuma.
8.    At the same time, there is an equally important risk associated with a lack of policy
associated with the management of the financial reserves of the IMSS insurance programs.
While the overall reserves of IMSS are subject to the general policies of internal credit policy---
IMSS annually negotiates a reserves target for macro policy reason-there is no explicit
mechanism to regulate the use of surpluses over and above the reserve target.
9.    The Government is responding to the need to implement reforms in the financial
managemenit and reserve policy through a two-pronged approach, which addresses the two
main policy objectives: transparent management of the different insurance programs, including
improved asset-liability management, and clear targets for investment in the IMSS health care
delivery network through the execution of the investment program under the IDF. First, in the
short-term, IMSS and SHCP have agreed upon a financial strategy that will implement a
regulatory and institutional framework - within the context of an IMSS reserves policy - for
the transparent administration and allocation of the surpluses that are likely to be formed over
the next ten years in the different IMSS insurance programs. Through the implementation of
the proposed reserves policy, the Government will gradually address the main issues
associated with IMSS financial management and asset-liability. Second, over the medium-term,
the reserves policy would align incentives among the insurance programs. The framework will
be negotiated annually through an agreement between IMSS and SHCrP establishing annual
targets for Ihe use of IMSS reserves from the different insurance branches, to ensure maximum
transparency and avoid the commingling of funds.
While the discussion focuses on IMSS, it can be generalized to other institutions and the system as a
whole.
2 Cash flow issues are not considered here explicitly. This flow needs to be managed according to
prudent financial management rules.



Annex 5
SSHF
Page 3 of 9
10.    Proposed Link Between the Federal Budget and IMSS Finance. The solution proposed
here aims to enable the Government to strike a balance between the different institutional
objectives just stated while subjecting IMSS independent budget to overall fiscal policy.  The
solution is based on the following principles that are proposed recommendations to be met
under the loan:
(a) A baseline level of health spending per capita over time is set, starting with the 1996 level;
(b) A universal capitation formula which reflects normative, efficiency, and equity
considerations is determined;
(c) An institutional mechanism which would periodically adjust levels of spending and
capitation coefficients according to changing circumstances is put in place;
(d) IMSS will set annual targets for reserves for each of the health-related social security
programs, e.g. Health and Maternity, Pensioners' Health Insurance, Worker's
Compensation, and SSFAM which will be funded through annual revenues;
(e) All resources for IMSS health will be concentrated in the SSHF. For this purpose, long term
goals will be defined to finance the monetary benefits of Health and Maternity, Family
Health Insurance Program, Pensioners' Health Insurance Program, and Workers
Compensation. The annual surpluses from the SSHF will be used to finance: (i) health
insurance reserves; (ii) IDF resources and working capital for strengthening the IMSS
provider network, estimated at US$360 million for the period 1998-2000; and (iii)
catastrophic reserves to insure against health risks, such as epidemics; and
(f) The government guarantees the agreed level of spending during any phase of the business
cycle - any excess in agreed spending over revenues, would be financed with SSHF
reserves against macroeconomic risk; additional risk pooling mechanism will be
implemented to guard against catastrophic risks. The agreed level of expenditure will take
into account the covariation with aggregate quantities. That is, give a sudden decrease in
real revenues, average expenditure could be maintained in items that significantly affect
the quality of service, whereas other expenditures shall be adjusted in accordance with
general movements in the national economy.
11.    These arrangements are not to diminish the Government's right, within its regulatory
powers, to change the "health tax" rates levied on employers and households for as long as it
helps maintain the agreed levels of spending, subject to periodic adjustments.



Annex 5
SSHF
Page 4 of 9
Capitated payments to Medical
Services         and rehabilitation
uL                                                                             services
o)            Financing of opting-ut                 Capitated Payment to MCOs
Financing of high technology I high cost services  DRG payments to Hospi:als,
Medical Area Units and MCOs
Surplus
Innovative
Reserves      Development
SSHF            Fund
(IDF)
Policy and Regulations for Management of SSHF Surplus
12.     This solution, illustrated notional:ly in the above figure, shows how IMSS would invest
any surpluses in a manner to optimize the distribution of resources between competing
objectives. The reserves policy would propose a gradual implementation of the following
recommendations in regard to the reserve policy for the use of SSHF funds: (i) a fixed
proportion of IMSS expenditures will be kept as working capital; (ii) a fixed proportion of the
surplus, after working capital is defined, would be used to stabilize spending and establish
reserves for each of the IMSS insurance programs, in line with annual surplus targets. For
health, the surplus funds would finance, over the medium-term, a health insurance reserve
comprised of a fixed percentage of annual Health and Maternity, Family Health Insurance
Program, Pensioners' Health Insurance Program, and Workers Compensation revenues, to
safeguard the operations of the SSHF; part of this reserve will be managed according to
evaluations of specific risks, such as epidemics, floods, etc.; and (iii) the remaining funds will be
used to fund the Innovative Development Fund (IDF), in accordance with compliance with
annual targets for disability and advancement with the implementation of the health care
reforms. The IDF will operate as a transparent and cost-effective mechanism to strengthen the
IMSS providers by increasing investment in the health care networik as a function of
management changes associated with the reform program. In summary, the development of
the reserve strategy would allow IMSS greater financial transparency and an increase in the
investment program of IMSS health care providers, in line with annual targets for disability
levels and progress in the implementation of health care reforms. These actions would be
critical to ensure that the short-term surplus is used to purchase the best value health care for
the money.



Annex 5
SSHF
Page 5 of 9
13.   An additional element of the reserve
policy is to protect IMSS revenues against
downtums in the business cycle. In essence,             RK0     d
the proposed  policy  is based  on  the         R,H
establishment of financial entitlements, and                            R
the  subsequent setting  of risk-adjusted                                H
capitated payments to be made to the IMSS  n mwwp.
Medical Area Units and the MCOs. This d      *                    /
solution, illustrated in the adjacent figure,   mm-wpm
means that the Government "insures" IMSS' theh,*=qdc"
budget against the potential effects of the            /
business  cycle  while  IMSS  practically                       c ffizmdbm
'deposits' any surpluses in its tax-driven
revenues with in a manner best suited for the     
economy. This solution is a second-best to a
situation whereby the Government plays a similar role but with a fully discretionary allocation
to the health budget, based on health tax rates and a budgetary contribution, which reflects
both fiscal policy and health policy (as expressed through a normative level of health spending,
and the capitation system).
III. The New Social Security Health Fund
14.  Issues. The opting out and opting in provisions of the SSL provide ample potential for
(a) increasing choice and competition in the system that could, in turn, increase quality of
service and care as well as client satisfaction, and (b) expanding coverage and equity. This
potential can be developed through institutions which would strengthen the public finance
virtues of the health financing system (risk pooling, redistribution capacity, potential control
over spending, ease of conduct of health and economic policy) in a manner that is amenable to
the fiscal management of the system as outlined above. Moreover, if Mexico is to follow other
OECD nations, in the long term, it should strive to have a unified national public finance
system for a universal package of care which includes public health and rehabilitative and
curative care. The system being adopted, which can be extended beyond IMSS, would be an
important first step in this direction. This system takes maximum advantage of the opting out
option while minimizing its risks.
15.   The Social Security Health Fund (SSHF). The SSHF would lay the groundwork for the
operation of a much larger, risk pooling mechanism that would operate as a national level
Health Fund. The SSHF would thus assume the role of financier and purchaser (possibly
executing the purchaser role through regional or sub-national units), while the IMSS Medical
Area Units, private MCOs and providers from other social security institutes (ISSSTE, PEMEX,
etc.) would compete for funds from the SSHF and organize competing networks of integrated
health care systems. Initially, the SSHF would manage all IMSS health-related funds and
allocate resources to the Medical Area Units. Given that it is likely that the Medical Area Units
can be strengthened only gradually over the next several years, the SSHF will have to maintain
a two track approach to the implementation of the reforms: some of the Medical Area Units
will operate under reformed procedures, while others will continue to operate under the
previous administrative arrangements. As the manager of competition among the Medical
Area Units and the MCOs, the SSHF's primary responsibility would be to obtain the maximum



Annex 5
SSHF
Page 6 of 9
value for the IMSS health care dollar.
16.   To aichieve these long-term objectives, the SSHF would:
* promote competition and user choice through separation of finance from management and
provision of care, and decentralization;
* maintain and expand public finance principles within IMSS;
* contribute to risk-pooling, while reducing segmentation in the system through a unified
financing mechanism;
* provide a framework for a unified national social health insurance system with an
independent statutory nature, eventually integrating all health funds raised through
mandatory contributions/taxes (including ISSSTE, PEMEX, and others); and
* establis]h an independent regulatory and supervisory capacity -- initially through the
establishment of a Task Force for the Regulation of Managed Competition, operating within
IMSS, and eventually fully autonomous - to oversee the managed competition among
MCOs.
17.   To these ends, the SSHF would be both a financial management and regulatory agency
vis-a-vis the purchase of services from the Medical Area Units and through the administration
of the managed care market of MCOs. Political and institutional realities prevent the
establishment of a national statutory fund at this time, therefore, the SSHF will be established
under the auspices of IMSS and confined to financing the integrated health care model under
IMSS, including the management of funds from the Family Health Insurance and the payment
to private MCOs under the opting out scheme. In other words, the financing of public health
currently handled through the SSA and the financing of ISSSTE, PEMEX and and other social
security institutions would not be financed by the SSHF. Consequently, the key actions to be
taken at this time, include:
* The SSHF is established and governed under IMSS corporate structure, with an advisory
SSHF C'ommittee composed of representatives of SHCP, SSA, SECODAM and other
agencies;
* The SSHF could eventually have regional branches which would be allocated funds for
regions on a capitation basis that would in turn purchase care from Medical Area Units and
private MCOs;
* The SSHF combines into a single non-discretionary fund monies of the Sickness and Maternity
Prograrm, Pensioners' Medical Care Program, Family Health Insurance Program, and
receives payment from the Workers' Compensation program;
* The SSHF charges, on an agreed fee-for-service basis, the Work Accident Injury Program for
medical costs of injured workers billed by the MCOs (alternatively, MCOs can bill directly
the Wor]kers Compensation Program, depending on regulations); and
* The SSHF adopts a universal, risk-adjusted capitation-based allocation rule (see previous
section) for allocation of funds to IMSS Medical Area Units and other MCOs which may
start operating under the managed care provision.
* A regulatory committee will be established under the authorization of the IMSS Board of
Directors to oversee the development of the operational guidelines of the SSHF and to



Annex 5
SSHF
Page 7 of 9
eventually regulate the purchasing of services from the Medical Area Units and the MCOs.
18.    The following figure provides a schematic representation of how the SSHF will operate,
including the flow of resources to Medical Area Units and private MCOs. As shown in the
figure, the SSHF will employ 4 key elements to achieve a meaningful separation of financing
and provision. First, the SSHF will allocate resources on a capitated basis to the Medical Area
Units and the MCOs (see point 1 in the figure). Under this arrangement, the SSHF will
establish a contractual relationship with the Medical Area Unit that clearly identifies the
Medical Area Units objectives, the range of services that will be purchased, quality and
efficiency indicators, the average prices that will be compensated and outlines an explicit
incentive scheme to reward those Medical Area Units that achieve satisfactory evaluations.
Second, the Medical Area Units will subsequently be responsible for managing the provision of
care within the MAU by creating a contractual arrangement, or through integrated
management, with the providers in the Medical Area Units (see point 2). During the second
stage of the reforms, the Medical Area Units will also assume responsibility for purchasing
medical services from the Specialty Hospitals and for purchasing services from providers
located within and outside of the respective Medical Area Units through DRGs or other cost
transfer mechanism (see point 3). Lastly, the SSHF will establish a similar contractual
arrangement with the Specialty Hospitals and employ procedure, or case-based, payment
systems, e.g. DRGs, to transfer resources to the Specialty Hospitals (see point 4).
Separation of Financing and Delivery of Healthcare
1: SSHF - Medical Area Units
2: Medical Area Units - Providers         t                   Finance
3: Medical Area Units - Specialty Hospitals               (collection)
*4 SSHF - Specialty Hospitals
_      |       SSHF      Fee   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Work accident injury l
oSickcs Pensioners          _
l maend  ity medical  Family Health Insura`|
SSHF                                _ _ .                    Fund
Regulatory Committee
(SSHF)
l                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Innovative  Recurrent Health
Development Fund  Expenditure
Payment Mechanism
[              I/  .             based on Capitation
/-i \ /                Contracts signed
*-1  1   \ between SSHF, Medical
L   -  -  -  -  -_ -  -  -  -  -  -, -  -a -  -  ----------------------Area  Units and MCOs
Medical Area Units    cs      SpecialtyHospitals
Capitated payment and contracting management for health care provider  Etr. N
Investment in health care delivery network       r7r
=  Cash advance SHCP-IMSS to finance innovative development fund        F3 I I
- - Contracting with providers                      W  L     J II  I   I
-MAU purchasing 3rd level care from Specialty Hosp. via DRG-like  I  I
payment mechanism                                  IMSS        Public and Pnvaie
19.    Management of the  SSHF.   The  SSHF  would  be  managed  by  IMSS' regular



Annex 5
SSHF
Page 8 of 9
administrative bodies, with advice provided by a SSHF Committee composed of
representatives from SHCP, SSA, SECODAM, and other governmental agencies. In addition, a
technical unit would be established within IMSS to carry out the technical activities related to
regulation, financing and control of the SSHF operations.
*  The SSHIF will set standards for the budgeting, financial management, accounting and
financial reporting of MCOs, starting with IMSS. Each MCO will be required to operate
according to these standards as a condition of initial licensure and subsequent renewal. The
SSHF will monitor the performance of the MCOs to assure compliance with these
standarcds.
*  IMSS will assess and approve the capitation formula which will determine the MCOs'
budgets and will monitor internal allocation within the MCOs to assure that the objectives
of the capitation formula are be met, including regional and geographical coefficients.
*  IMSS will set the rules for enrollment of new members in MCOs, the movement of members
among MCOs, as well as the rules and iregulations for opting-in and opting-out.
- will appoint an auditor to review the financial processes of the MCOs.
- Within the structure of IMSS, a small technical unit will be established to carry out the day-
to-day eactivities of the SSHF. This unit wiLL be multidisciplinary and will have the
responsability for estabLishing annual operational rules and regulations of the SSHF and
carrying out most of the functions associated with purchasing and evaluation of
management contracts with Medical Area Units and MCOs.
- The SSHF will also constitute an Innovative Development Fund (IDF, see Annex 7) for
investment in equipment and construction to assist Medical Area Units in financing the
purchase of modem medical equipment and construction of health care facilities. Policies
and procedures for the allocation of these funds will be developed and included in an
Operational Manual, including eligibility and subproject approval criteria, and the nature of
the financing to the MCOs.
20.   Membership Enrollment in MCOs. The process for enrollment of members in all MCOs
will be defined by rules and regulations established by IMSS, or by the terms of the contract
with each MCO. It is recommended that at the start there be a status report of the membership
in each MC'O as it appears in the information relayed by each to the national database
maintained by IMSS. IMSS will have the right to run computerized checks and clarifications on
these databases.
21.   The result of this process will be a verified national database, which will provide an
initial benchmark. From this point and onwards, the database will be updated by the MCOs
and the employers according to a determined process, which will be approved by the SSHF.
This process must permit the updating of the movement of members between MCOs in
accordance with the regulations for opting-in and opting-out of these organizations, as well as
other changes such as births, deaths, immigration and lags in the payment of premiums in
accordance with the rules established by the SSHF. At regular intervals (monthly, quarterly or
biannually), the national database will be "closed" and each MCO will receive an updated list
of its current membership. These will form the basis for determining the number of active
members in every category according to the capitation formula and will determine the amount
of funds to be allocated to each health care organization for the coming interval.



Annex 5
SSHF
Page 9 of 9
22.   Assuring Stability and Preventing Undue Stress in the Financing System. Some concern
has been expressed that the mobility of beneficiaries among insurers without any limitations is
liable to lead to undue stress to the system or portions of it. In order to prevent this situation, a
number of limitations may be implemented:
* In the first few years, the movement of members between health care organizations will be
permitted on a collective basis only, by employer. This principle may require the
establishment of rules which will allow flexibility for specific cases such as enabling
patients suffering from severe diseases who are undergoing long-term treatment to
continue to receive treatment in the same institution by an agreement between health care
organizations which will permit the new organization to purchase the services from the
former organization. This may be particularly relevant in cases of work injuries or
disabilities resulting from work accidents. There may need to be separate rules enabling
people from the informal sector who have never been enrolled in IMSS to join an MCO for
the first time on an individual basis.
*  A ceiling will be set for the number of employer/employees permitted to opt out of their
present MCO during the course of the year. If the number wishing to opt out exceeds the
ceiling, the latest "comers" will be permitted to opt out in the coming year.
If, over time, it becomes clear that these concerns are exaggerated, these limitations may be
reduced or altogether eliminated. People may be permitted to transfer membership to a new
MCO on an individual basis and the ceilings may be increased each year.
IV. Private-Public Mix
23.   Issues. Private finance plays a major role in the Mexican health system, but is driven to
a substantial degree by dissatisfaction with the publicly financed system mainly of IMSS and
ISSSTE. Moreover, this role is played out in conjunction with this system; personnel working
in the system use it for referral to their private practice, spend short days on their public job in
favor of private practice. That is, the public system may subsidize private practice.
24.   Indeed, a situation whereby the same providers work both under 'public' and 'private'
management contracts creates opportunities to exploit poorly informed users, manipulate the
package of benefits financed through public management contracts, and increase the incomes
of both providers and insurers while abusing public infrastructure.
25.   At the same time, given the magnitude of private finance in the Mexican health syst rm
and its apparent impact on the publicly financed system, there would be merit to use private
resources for the benefit of the entire system and engage its potential in the proposed reform
process. In other words, Mexico needs to entice private finance in favor of the public system,
reversing the nature of subsidy, by making the national system more attractive to the public at
large.



Annex 6
IMSS Restructuring
Page 1 of 5
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING OF IMSS
Key Achievements to Date
1.    Despite regular minor alterations, the fundamental administrative structure of the head
office of IMSS has remained unchanged for many years. One of the most important
organizational changes of recent years came with the creation of the Regional Directorates in
1995. Gradually, the responsibilities of these offices have been expanded, and they now play a
significant role in financial accountability and planning. Their role is planned to expand over
the coming years as they take on increasing responsibility for the appraisal of capital projects.
However, the development of a new organizational structure will necessitate a re-appraisal of
their role. The decentralisation process has moved steadily since 1995. Since that date the total
staff of head office has been reduced from over 13,000 to below 11,000. The creation in 1997 of
budgetary Medical Area Units provides a strong basis for further devolution of decision-
making.
The Principles Underlying The Proposed Re-Organization
2.    Opinion is evolving within IMSS about the exact nature of the required organizational
change. Certain common principles can be identified:
*  Changes which build on existing structures and the Government's goals for health sector
development
*  A clear separation of funding and delivery
*  Decentralization of responsibility from the center to the level at which management can
best respond to user need
*  Removal of unnecessary bureaucracy to improve efficiency
* Strengthening of management capacity at the point of service delivery
*  Capitation and the development of an internal market to ensure that funds follow the
patient
*  Gradual introduction of competition, both between IMSS providers of health care and
outside of IMSS
*  Greater accountability to patients, and more thorough quality assurance
*  Flexibility to allow for
- variations in local services in order to respond to specific local need
- pilots of new models of service delivery or financing
- change and further reform over time
A New Organizational Structure
3.   IMSS will introduce a new corporate management structure which separates the
funding of health care from the delivery of health care services. The SSHF will be established
as the basic mechanism to ensure the transparent separation of activities. While the SSHF will
initially purchase, or allocate, resources from the central level, it is likely that the organizational
structure will retain the Regional Directorates as an extended arm of the SSHF at the central
level.



Annex 6
IMSS Restructuring
Page 2 of 5
4.    In the medium-term, the delivery of health care services will continue to be provided by
Medical Area Units at primary and secondary care levels and by Specialty Hospitals at tertiary
care levels. Currently separate systemrs of budgetary and referral MAUs exist. Under this
operation a number of selected Medical Area Units will take on more autonomous budgeting
and management functions. At least initially, they will continue to receive technical support
from regional Technical Support Offices.
5.    The initial implementation of the Medical Area Units would be phased as follows:
* Start immediately with trial sites to develop the concept and clarify how Medical
Area Units will function;
* :[dentification of approximately 30 Medical Area Units to be included in the initial
phase of corporate restructuring over the next 18 months.
The Roles And Responsibilities Of Different Levels In The New Structure
6.    Medical Area Units. The Medical Area Units will function as integrated health care
delivery units, or IMSS MCOs within the new structure and will be responsible for providing
all the primary, secondary and preventive care of all their members with the per capita
allocation received from SSHF. Once the payment mechanisms are developed, they will
purchase tertiary health care services from Specialty Hospitals as appropriate.
7.    Within the Medical Area Units, users will be allowed to choose their family doctor. In
order to flanction successfully this would require good information systems and adequate
training and backup for family doctors and their support staff. The implementation of user
choice among family physicians will begin immediately in the 30 selected Medical Area Units,
however, careful evaluation will be undertaken to introduce changes in the model before it is
extended to the remaining Medical Area Units. It is essential that a policy be developed to
ensure that family doctors not be exposed to the full risk of an individual patient requiring very
high cost treatment.
8.    A Medical Area Unit will typically comprise several Family Health Units and one or
more secondary hospitals and will have its own management structure encompassing the
following functions:
* financial accounting and budgetary control
* procurement of equipment and supplies
* facilities management and maintenance
* human resources management and training
* public health and infectious disease control
* quality assurance and medical audit
* management information systems
* planning and contracting services
9.    The size and managerial competence within the Medical Area Units differ significantly
across the country. In order to ensure flexibility in approaches to the internal management
organization of the Medical Area Units, pilot programs will be established to assess the
effectiveness of different approaches. Three different models should be considered:
* Separate management structures for hospitals and for primary care facilities



Annex 6
IMSS Restructuring
Page 3 of 5
* Integrated management structures for hospitals and for primary care facilities
* Management of primary care facilities acting as purchasers of hospitals services
10.   Delegations. Delegations are administrative structures operating at the local level, with
responsibility for oversight of the quality and efficiency of the health facilities in a given
geographical area and functions related to collections. With the creation of the Medical Area
Units, many of these functions are to be integrated into the management structure of the
Medical Area Unit, and, therefore should no longer have a role in the management of health
care delivery by the Medical Area Units. They would be invited to contribute to the work of the
already-established User Advisory Councils to be set up in each Medical Area Unit.
11.   Specialty Hospitals. Over the medium-term, the 41 Specialty Hospitals will provide
tertiary care and other specialized services to Medical Area Units through a contracting process
whereby Medical Area Units and private MCOs obtain the services they require. Under either
financing arrangement-direct purchasing from the center or from budgetholding Medical
Area Units-the separation of financing and provision will be ensured by means of an
agreement which specifies the following:
*  services to be provided
*  number of procedures
*  cost per procedure
*  referral process
*  length of contract
*  arrangements for termination, variation, extension or renewal of contract
*  reimbursement mechanism
* quality and efficiency indicators used for evaluation
12.   In order to improve efficiency throughout the health care delivery system, the Specialty
Hospitals will eventually be allowed to sell their services to other organizations outside of IMSS
including ISSSTE, SSA, PEMEX and private health care organizations (MCOs). To enable the
management of Specialty Hospitals to operate efficiently, they would need to develop
independent capability to carry out the following functions:
*  financial accounting and budgetary control
* procurement of equipment and supplies
*  estate management and maintenance
*  human resources management and training
*  management information systems
*  planning and contracting
*  quality assurance and medical audit
13.   Central Level. It would be responsible for the design and implementation of the new
regulations related to the integrated health model.
14.   A process of providing technical support to hospitals has already started through the
establishment of Operational Support Units at certain hospitals. The new, smaller Health
Services Directorate will be responsible for the following functions:
* public health policy
* policy on management information systems
* medical education, training and research



Annex 6
IMSS Restructuring
Page 4 of 5
* human resources policy and management development
* procurement regulations and the negotiation of national prices for certain goods
* overall quality assurance and clinical audit
* a national user advisory council
* liaison with other health care organizations
* technical support for Specialty Hospitals
15.   Regional Support to Health Services Delivery. The Medical Area Units will be new
entities with significant responsibilities. -Given the current management weakness at the MAU
level, Medical Area Units will require regular support. Each Region will establish a Technical
Support Office providing back-up and supervision to the following Medical Area Unit
functions:
* planning and public health
* procurement procedures
* management information systems
* human resources management and training
* quality assurance and utilization review
Funding Mechanisms and Structures
16.   The funding of IMSS health care services will come from the SSHF, which will allocate
funds to IMSS Medical Area Units and alternative providers on a capitation basis. Over the
medium-term, administration of national funds could be allocated to the 'Regional level by age,
sex and additional socio-economic indicators that serve as proxies for demand. The Regional
level office would, in turn, apply tailored capitation formulae (taking full account of health
need, morbidity, mortality, indices of deprivation etc.) to allocate funds to Medical Area Units
within their geographic region. The factors used to tailor the capitation formula at the regional
level should be made available to the national and local User Advisory Councils.
17.   Specialty Hospitals and Medical Area Units would have full budgetary responsibility
for the operational funds allocated to them. Standing Financial Instructions regulating the
control of income and expenditure at each management unit would be issued by the IMSS head
office, which will continue to have an auditing function on the use of IMSS funds.
18.   Specialty Hospitals and Medical Area Units will have full responsibility for the
procurement of equipment and supplies in accordance with regulations and procedures
approved by IMSS Head Office.
19.   The Central Health Services Directorate will develop and monitor the implementation
of procurement practices and procedures and would negotiate prices for certain goods. They
would not conduct any procurement.
20.   The Technical Support Offices at the regional level would give technical assistance with
procurement practices and procedures carried out at the Medical Area Unit level.
The Management of Health Services Delivery
21.   A new post of Medical Area Unit Director has been created to take overall responsibility
for the management of each Medical Area Units. Each Medical Area Unit Director will take
responsibility for identifying the staffing requirements for their units and for establishing new



Annex 6
IMSS Restructuring
Page 5 of 5
policies and procedures for the day-to-day operation of their facilities.
22.   Serious consideration should be given to delegating freedom to the Medical Area Unit
Director to negotiate staffing levels and, at a later stage, staff terms and conditions of service
within a national framework. Remuneration of the Medical Area Unit Directors should also be
linked to achievements of the MAU, in terms of productivity and efficiency.
23.   Management of the Medical Area Unit would be overseen by a board of directors
comprised of the directors of each of the medical facilities within the MAU. The president of
the Board would be elected by a simple majority by board members from all medical centers.
Community participation would be ensured by the User Advocacy Boards and the
establishment of an ombudsman position within each Medical Area Unit.
24.  In order to strengthen the capacity of Medical Area Unit Directors to respond to the
challenge of MAU management, a comprehensive management training and development
program is being prepared by the Central Health Services Directorate to equip managers for the
new responsibilities they will be expected to take on. The development of the program will be
supported by the Technical Assistance Loan, and would encompass the following activities:
* internal and external training of existing managers
-  recruitment and training of new managers
- graduate management training program to recruit and train top managers for CEO,
finance, procurement, human resources and management information systems posts
Issues Related to the Procurement Function
25.   The procurement function at the Medical Area Unit level would be responsible for the
specification and purchase of all goods and services for the Medical Area Unit duly authorized
by the budget holders in accordance with Standing Orders, Standing Financial Instructions and
procurement procedures approved by the IMSS Head Office.
26.   The Director of Procurement will be fully trained and experienced in purchasing and
supplies in health care and would have oversight of the warehousing, storage and security of
supplies purchased by the Medical Area Unit. The Director will be expected to develop policies
and procedures specific to the Medical Area Unit following guidance and technical support
from the Regional Technical Support Office. The Director of Procurement will be directly
accountable to the Director of the Medical Area Unit and not to the Finance Director.
27.   The procurement function should be able to make use of nationally negotiated contracts
unless it is possible to demonstrate that local purchasing of certain goods and services are less
expensive and of similar or better quality. Similar arrangements should apply to the
procurement function in the Specialty Hospitals.



Annex 7
IDF
Page 1 of 5
INNOVATIVE DEVELOPMENT FUND (IDF)
Introduction
1.    The changes in the Social Security Law (SSL) introduce two major changes that will
affect the development of IMSS over the next several years. First, the changes in the health
insurance financing system will likely lead to surpluses in the system. In order to ensure that
these surpluses are used to purchase the maximum value of health for the IMSS insured
population, it is necessary to introduce structural changes in the management of the
organization and its providers. The second issue that is highlighted as a result of changes in
the health insurance systems is related to increasing competition from the private sector. In
order to allow for competition on even grounds between IMSS providers (Medical Area Units)
and   MCOs, it is necessary to update investment in equipment, design and implement
information systems, and introduce measures to improve their production process so as to be
more client-oriented and to attempt to reduce costs, notably through better management of
patient flows, increased introduction of outpatient services, and a more effective referral and
counter-referral system between levels of care.
2.    In some areas this will imply expansion of capacity, in others it may require the
reduction of hospital beds. To be in a position to operate in the new reformed health care
system, Medical Area Units and hospitals will have to introduce new management and
financial systems to monitor and control their costs, better allocate their resources, and
negotiate performance management contracts with the SSHF. This will imply training of their
staff, development of their technical skills (particularly in the area of operation and
maintenance of new biomedical equipment) as well as special care about waste disposal. They
will also need to introduce new budgeting, accounting, and management information systems
to allow them to enter into purchasing agreements that may involve more sophisticated
provider payment systems. This investment by Medical Area Units in management
improvement and equipment renewal would be financed under an Innovative Development
Fund (IDF). The objectives and operating criteria for the IDF are described in this Annex.
Objectives
3.    The objectives of the Fund are to: (i) replace obsolete medical equipment and technology
to increase productivity and quality of services and rationalize operating and maintenance
costs; (ii) improve the management of health facilities at the primary, secondary, and tertiary
levels; (iii) provide IMSS with a flexible instrument that will allow health facilities to adjust
their production capacity in an evolving competitive market; and (iv) strengthen the
organization and development of Medical Area Units.
Size and Allocation of Fund
4.    The IDF will receive gradual financing of US$200 million, as start-up capital, according
to an investment program timetable; replenishment in subsequent years will be made according
to an investment program. The fund would be divided into two parts: (i) a Basic fund which
would use 80 percent of the IDF; and (ii) a Competitive Fund which would use 20 percent of the
total fund. The Basic Fund would finance the renewal of equipment and the basic management
improvement considered essential for the modernization of IMSS' medical services. The
competitive Fund would principally support the Medical Area Units (about 40 over the 18



Annex 7
IDF
Page 2 of 5
months) and would provide focused direct assistance in developing and improving their
management and financing functions, in line with criteria agreed with the Bank. Additional
financing would be provided to Medical Area Units that demonstrate the most progress in the
implementation of new management and contracting systems under the Competitive Fund.
While the Basic Fund would finance subprojects in all 139 Medical Area Units, specific
allocation of resources under the competitive fund will depend on the criteria established
during project preparation and the degree to which the proposals support or advance
management reforms within the Medical Area Unit or Specialty Hospital.
5.    An initial allocation of funds contemplates the following distribution by levels of care,
representing objectives that would need to be adjusted in function of the implementation of the
Competitive Fund.
Year 1          Year 2          Year3           TOTAL
id Level              10%             15%              19%             16%
econ Level            30%             40%              58%             43%
irst Level            60%             45%              23%             41%
Management of the Fund
6.    The IDF would be constituted within the Social Security Health Fund and would be
governed in the same manner as the SSHF (see Annex 5). IMSS, on a quarterly basis, would: (i)
approve general policies and rules of operation; (ii) approve the annual budget (once a year);
(iii) authorize the IDF to negotiate financing; (iv) approve subprojects presented by third-level
hospitals, administrative subprojects, and all subprojects of the Competitive Fund (all other
subprojects would be approved at the Medical Area Unit or regional levels); and (v) review
overall ID17 performance.
Direct Beneficiaries
7.    Direct beneficiaries would be medical facilities within Medical Area Units (both family
medicine centers and hospitals), Specialty Hospitals and IMSS administrative units.
Sponsors
8.    Sponsors (or presenters) of subprojects would consist of: (i) Directors of health units; (ii)
Directors of Medical Area Units and regions; and (iii) IMSS Department of Medical Services.
However, all proposals originating at the level of Medical Area Unit would have to be
presented by the Director of the Medical Area Unit, with the approval of its Operations
Committee. This action would supporit the strengthening of the Medical Area Units and
promote the rationing of projects within the Medical Area Units.
Subproject: Cycle
9.    The subproject cycle and eligibility and appraisal criteria would be included in an
Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank. They are summarized below.
(a) Promnotion. The Coordination Unit (PCU) to be created under the Technical Assistance
Loan would invite sponsors to identify subprojects for financing under the project.
Representatives from the PCU would visit Medical Area Units and Regions to transmit



Annex 7
IDF
Page 3 of 5
and explain subproject eligibility and appraisal criteria. Technical assistance would be
provided to weaker Medical Area Units and Regions.
(b) Preparation. Subprojects would be prepared by sponsors using: (i) the eligibility and
appraisal criteria included in the Operational Manual; and (ii) the guidelines for
subproject preparation and appraisal.
(c) Appraisal and Approval. Subprojects presented by first and second-level facilities would
be appraised and approved at the Medical Area Unit level. Subprojects presented by
third-level hospitals, administrative subprojects (e.g. subprojects to strengthen the
management capacity of Medical Area Units), and all subprojects of the Competitive
Fund would be approved at the central level. Technical committees would be created to
that effect.
(d) Signing of Subproject Agreement. An agreement would be signed between IMSS and the
sponsor, delineating the obligations and rights in undertaking subprojects, assigning
responsibilities to the respective parties, and specifying criteria for the sustainability of
the subproject.
(e) Implementation. For each subproject, contracting would be undertaken for civil works,
goods, and consultants, using procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Within
five days of the end of each month, the sponsors would remit a subproject statement of
expenditures to the IMSS institutional level at which the subproject was approved.
(f) Supervision would be undertaken by Medical Area Units, Regions and Sub-regional
entities, and the central level for the respective subprojects that they would have
approved. This would have two different forms. First the implementation of the
equipment of health facilities would be followed to ensure compliance with timetables
and quality. Part of that supervision may be contractied out to private consultants. The
second aspect would be the follow-up of improvement in management and quality of
services. This would involve the follow-up of progress in training and technical
assistance and the tracking of monitoring indicators that measure improvements in
outputs.
Eligibility Criteria
10.   Eligibility criteria are necessary but not sufficient conditions that must be met by the
subprojects. Subprojects that do not fulfill the eligibility criteria would be immediately
returned to the sponsor. Those that qualify would be analyzed using appraisal criteria.
(a) Type of Subprojects. Subprojects for the Basic Fund should belong to one of the
following categories: (i) medical equipment; (ii) auxiliary equipment (e.g., kitchen and
washing equipment); (iii) computer equipment; (iv) civil works rehabilitation and
equipment (e.g. electrical, water or gas connections) required to install new medical or
auxiliary equipment; (v) management improvement, including training and technical
assistance in the areas of planning and budgeting, contracting of services, introduction
of new payment systems (e.g., DRGs, per capita), management information and
costing systems, project preparation and appraisal, and monitoring indicators for
impact evaluation; and (vi) incremental recurrent costs (e.g., some key inputs to ensure
operation during the first year).



Annex 7
IDF
Page 4 of 5
Subprojects for the Competitive Fund (where facilities and MedLical Area Units would
compete within Regions) would include the following: (i) investment in equipment
and rehabilitation of civil works not contemplated under the Basic Fund; (ii) proposal
to improve management systems, and implement contracting mechanisms using new
provider payment systems; and (iii) proposal of specific training that would help
implement the subproject. This Competitive Fund would give to IMSS facilities and
other parts of IMSS the flexibility required to adapt to a changing environment under
the health system reform, by taking measures that cannot be identified now.
(b)  Supply and Demand Study. Each subproject would include a supply and demand
study to justify the investment.
(c)  Mlfanagement Improvement. Each subproject proposal would include: (i) an agreement
that the top management of the health facility as well as some key technical staff (e.g.,
biomedical engineers) would follow management courses to be organized by IMSS;
and (ii) a proposal to introduce innovations in the health delivery model to improve
efficiency and quality (e.g., increase in outpatient services).
(d)  Support of health priorities. The investment in equipment must help to address at
least one of the 15 main health problems facing IMSS beneficiaries. These priorities
have been defined during project preparation using a combination of: (i) expected life-
years lost; (ii) strategic priorities of IMSS; and (iii) judgment of a panel of experts.
(e)  Sustainability. The sponsor should have the fiscal and management capability to
carry out the subproject as demonstrated in the analysis undertaken as part of
subproject preparation. The capacity of a health facility to implement the subproject
would be based on an analysis of the following: (i) availability of trained personnel to
operate the new equipment; (ii) availability of funds to finance recurrent costs (based
on historical budgets and new financing mechanisms to be introduced by IMSS; (iii)
availability of a biomedical engineer in each delegation and in each third-level hospital
corresponding to the health facility that presents a subproject; (iv) availability of a
biomedical technician in each hospital of second or third level that presents a
subproject; and (v) an operation and maintenance plan.
(f) Implementation Plan. Each subproject would include a plan with start-up and
completion dates and phases of implementation.
(g)  Impact Indicators. Each subproject would present a set of indicators (e.g., of efficiency
or quality) that would be used to measure the impact of the subproject.
(h)  Model Subprojects. About 5-6 subproject prototypes would be made available to
sponsors who would adapt them to their specific needs. These would include
combinations of investment in equipment and management improvement along the
lines of innovations that IMSS would like to introduce or expand.
Appraisal Criteria
11.  The subprojects presented would be appraised using the following criteria.
(a) Economic Evaluation. Analysis of supply and demand, taking into consideration
existing capacity within the health facility or neighboring ones and possible
modifications in capacity through changes in operating methods (organization,



Annex 7
IDF
Page 5 of 5
working hours, etc.).
(b)  Technical Evaluation. This would include: (i) complying with guidelines for the
restructuring of Medical Area Units; (ii) ensuring that the equipment requested fits
within IMSS norms for a given type of health facility; (iii) comparison of proposed
equipment cost with IMSS standard equipment cost list; and (iv) analysis of
architectural plans, including auxiliary equipment (thermo-mechanical, electrical, and
gas distribution, safety).
(c) Institutional Evaluation. Analysis of availability of specialized staff to operate and
maintain the equipment.
(d)  Financial Evaluation. Availability of budget to finance recurrent costs.
(e)  Environmental Evaluation. Analysis of possible negative environmental impact (solid,
liquid, and gaseous wastes) and of proposed measures to mitigate the negative effects.
(f)  Ranking. Competitive Fund subprojects would be ranked for approval using a point
system taking into consideration the following elements: (i) progress by Medical Area
Unit in improving its management, contracting, and financing functions; (ii) link with
priority health problems; (iii) expected reduction in waiting lists; (iv) reduction in
unnecessary referrals; (v) degree of integration with the health network in the Medical
Area Unit; and (vi) innovations in management of health facilities and health delivery
systems.
Amortization
12.   The TAL will assist IMSS in designing an amortization mechanism to ensure later
availability of resources to replace equipment at the end of its life. Funds equivalent to the
depreciation of the equipment financed are proposed to be deducted from regular budget
transfers from IMSS to health facilities using capitation payments under the SSHF (Annex 5)
and held in provision for eventual replacement.
Operational Guidelines
13.   The Operational Manual would include the following guidelines: (i) guidelines for
preparation of subprojects; (ii) subproject presentation form; (iii) appraisal methodology; (iv)
guidelines for supervision of installation and operation of equipment; (v) impact evaluation
procedures; (vi) disbursement procedures; and (vii) procurement guidelines.
Supporting Systems
14.   The IDF would benefit from  two major supporting systems: (i) a management
information system to track subprojects at each stage of the project cycle; and (ii) a data bank
with technical specifications and equipment costs. Existing system (or new, as appropriate)
would be strengthened to provide this capability.



Annex 8
Technical Assistance
Page 1 of 4
MATRIX OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
L Hlealt Finance and Regulatory Framework
A. Separating Financing from Provision: SSHF-:
(a) Social Security Health Fund  sultancy to support the design of  June 1998 to September  US$1,500,000    The first phase of the work will establish
(SSHF): Separation of     regulations governing quality and    1999 (main design                         the basic regulations needed to allow for
Financing and Delivery of   financial aspects of purchase of health  phase)                              choice of health providers and the
health care services      services (i.e., supervision)                                                   introduction of new management models
for the Medical Area Units (1st 8 months)
Later phases will support evaluation,
modification and preparation of necessary
regulation
(b) Resource allocation      Consultancy to support improvements to   May to September 1998   US$500,000    Later phases will support the finetuning of
(capitation & DRG-or-    the capitation formula, including inter    (main design phase)                  the capitation formula
equivalent systems)       alia:
(i) an equitable capitation formula,
(ii) a strategy for smoothing out per
standard capita allocation among
Regions and Medical Area Units,
and
(iii) reimbursement mechanism for high-
technology, high cost care
(c) Financial administration of   Technical support for the implementation  June to September 1999   US$450,000
IMSS Reserves Policy      of the reserve and financial management
policy of IMSS
* Costs are estimated. Actual costs may vary.



Annex 8
Technical Assistance
Page 2 of 4
(d) Health insurance enrollment  Consultancy to prepare an Action Plan  May to August 1998  US$100,000          Initial phase of the design would evaluate the
database                   and Terms of Reference for the design                                             current information systems and prepare terms
and implementation of an affiliation data                                         of reference for the design and implementation
base for health insurance as the basis for                                        of actual system
a benefit eligibility and capitation system
Design and implementation of the      2+ years                US$3,000,000        System design and implementation would be
information system.                                                               financed by World Bank and IMSS, due to the
high cost associated with the product
B. Inteaoiceand Extendig Coherei 00age
(a) Promoting User Choice     TA for the implementation of choice of    january 1999 to     US$500,000
health provider and of opting-in,     September 2000
including the preparation of regulations
and design of other basic instruments
C. DDevelop And Impleenftirchasng  Mechanisms
(a) Development and           Consultancy to support the             June 1998 to September   US$1,000,000       Consultancy would have to culminate with the
Implementation of         implementation of purchasing function    1999 (main activities)                    signing of contracts with Medical Area Units
Contracts between SSHF    within IMSS                                                                        and Specialty Hospitals.
and in IMSS Medical Area
Units and Specialty
Hospitals
(b) Patient Classification System   Consultancy to support a feasibility study  April to June 1998  US$100,000   Initial work undertaken to establish best
for hospital payment       and design of an action plan for the                                               strategy for IMSS and review international best
development and implemnentation of a                                              practice in patient classification systems.
patient classification system (e.g. DRGs)
as a clinical management and payment
mechanism
Once the feasibility study has been undertaken,
Consultancy to implement a patient    June 1998 to June 1999    US$1,800,000      the consultancy would support the
classification system for IMSS hospitals                                          implementation of the patient classification
systems. The output would be the systems
operating and the puTchase of the necessary
_______________________________ _______________________________________________________________     software.
* Costs are estimated. Actual costs may vary.



Annex 8
Technical Assistance
Page 3 of 4
II. Strengthening the IMSS' Institutional Framework for Healthi Care Finance ancl Delivery
(a) Strengthening of IMSS'   Consultancy to support the            Project life           US$950,000          Consultancy would support the
ability to implement the  implementation of the SSHF and IDF                                               implementation of alternative provider
SSHF and IDF                                                                                               payment systems, management of
financial reserves, supervisory functions
and other regulatory activities, and the
investment program
(b) Corporate Restructuring  Consultancy to support the development  June to October 1998  US$500,000         Product would be a Corporate
and management            of an IMSS restructuring plan                                                    Restructuring Plan including main actions,
decentralization of IMSS                                                                                   financing, time table, operating manuals
Health Care System                                                                                         and support systems
Consultancy to support the           October 1998 to June   US$1,300,000        Second phase of corporate restructuring
implementation of the corporate      2000                                       would include the implementation of the
restructuring plan within the IMSS health                                       action plan
care administration
(c) Restructuring of the health    Consultancy to support the design and    June 1998 to June 1999    US$3,500,000  Consultancy would support
care delivery system      implementation of restructuring plans                                            implementation of restructuring plan in
through the development of  within IMSS Medical Area Units                                                 approx. 5-10 Medical Area Units.
Medical Area Units                                                                                         Extension would be carried out by IMSS
with light supervision by firm.
(d) Restructuring of the health    Consultancy to support the      June 1998 to December   US$2,400,000       Consultancy to support the management
care delivery system      implementation of management          1999                                       changes in approx. 5 specialty hospitals.
through the restructuring of  improvements in specialty hospitals                                          And prepare for contracting and DRG
Specialty Hospitals                                                                                        systems
(e) Technological assessment of  Consultancy to carry out assessment  June 1998 to June 2000    US$1,100,000  Assessment would support investment
high-cost hospital                                                                                         choices under IDF
equipment and medical
protocols                                                                                             .
(f) Quality Assurance        Consultancy to support the            January to December    US$300,000          Quality assurance program has been
implementation of the IMSS quality   1999                                       designed, consultancy would support its
assurance system, including quality                                             implementation
indicators and MIS
* Costs are estimated. Actual costs may vary.



Annex 8
Technical Assistance
Page 4 of 4
Investment in Human           Implementation of management and       Project life           US$7,000,000         TAL would finance the administration of
Resources                  technical training plan, including, inter                                          the training plan by a third party
alia, management of health services,                                              organization and the associated training
alternative provider payment schemes,                                             activities
and cost-accounting                   _                       _                  I_I
IV, ProjetAmnsrtona  'Eauto
(a) Support to Implementation    Technical assistance provided to support  Project life     US$1,800,000
of the IDF                    the implementation and ongoing
operations of the IDF                I                       I_I_I
(b) Public Awareness Campaign  Design and implement of a public     lune 1998 to March      US$1,000,000         TAL would finance the design and
on IMSS Reform                awareness campaign to bolster support    1999                                      implementation of the plan, including
for the reforms.                                                                  publicity and management of the
______________________    _________________ _ lcommunications  strategy
(c) Project Evaluation        Design and implementation of the       Project life           US$1,200,000         TAL would finance the design and
monitoring and evaluation system                                                  implementation of the evaluation and
monitoring system throughout the
___________________________________________________________________ ______________________  execution of the loan
* Costs are estimated. Actual costs may vary.



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 1 of 18
THE FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS MODEL:
SIMULATIONS OF THE IMPACT OF HEALTH INSURANCE REFORMS
I. Introduction
1.    In 1995 a series of reforms in the SSL proposed dramatic changes in the financing of
social security coverage provided by IMSS. The changes aim to improve the competitiveness of
the Mexican labor market by reducing the wage tax and increasing the central government
contributions to finance health care services, and extending coverage of the social security
system under IMSS through the introduction of two new insurance schemes to increase
enrollment of self-employed and small business owners. It is expected that the changes in the
social security system will correct the financial disequilibrium that the IMSS has suffered
during the past several decades.
2.    According to the text of the SSL, "the changes in health insurance system reaffirm the
Government's commitment and participation in the social security system; establish a more
transparent financial mechanisms; provide the conditions for increasing coverage, in order to
achieve universal coverage of the population; and foment the development of the labor market,
which will lead to greater social benefits and improved welfare of the population. The search
for these objectives will have a significant impact on the financing of social security in Mexico,
as well as the fiscal obligations of the Government to finance its increased participation in the
health insurance system of IMSS.
3.    In order to evaluate the financial and fiscal impact of the proposed financing reforms, it
is necessary to develop a simple financial projections model to simulate the impact of the
reforms in the context of a dynamic demographic and financial environment. In addition, the
model provides for the flexibility necessary to simulate alternative policy scenarios currently
under discussion in Mexico. The two basic policy options explored in the current analysis
include: (i) increased participation in the opting-out policy (prestaci6n indirecta), which
essentially allows IMSS beneficiaries to opt out of the IMSS provider network, by devolving to
members a lump sum risk-adjusted capitation payment; and (ii) providing public subsidies for
insurance to the self-employed and informal sector workers (opting-in).
4.    This annex summarizes the most important features of the model, describes the sources
of data used, explains the operation of the different modules or components, shows how the
components are integrated to produce estimates of the financial and fiscal impact of the
reforms, and presents summary results of the implementation of the financing reforms. The
paper is divided into five sections. The first section provides an overview of the current
financial situation of IMSS and highlights the key aspects of the proposed reforms. The second
section outlines the basic modeling approach, describes the key variables and the expected
results. The following section establishes the baseline data and assumptions used in the model.
The fourth section outlines the alternative scenarios that are evaluated. The fifth section
highlights the principal results of the financial projection, including the impact on IMSS
finances, the fiscal impact, the effect of the health insurance schemes for the self-employed and
the informal sector, and the implementation of a public health package. Detailed financial
projections are provided in the full document available in project files.



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 2 of 18
II. Current Fi-nancial Situation of IMSS
5.     The extension of coverage of social security, increasing medical costs, an aging
population, and fluctuations of the economy have placed steady pressure on the Mexican social
security system. IMSS was traditionally financed through a tripartite compulsory insurance
scheme covering workers in the formal economy and their employers, based on twelve and a
half percent (12.5%) of nominal wage earnings, with government contributions limited to a
small subsidiary role and financing of a limited group of public workers. The burden of the
compulsory payroll tax falls mainly on employers (70%), followed by a smaller share for
employees (25%) and government (5%).
6.     Total revenues through the current system have proven insufficient to cover the health
care costs of the IMSS, including hospital and maternity care. Over the past 5 decades, the
annual deficits have been subsidized by funds allocated from the other insurance schemes, such
as pensions and child care. Until 1988, the health insurance system of IMSS was in chronic
deficit. In 1989 the government increased payroll taxes from 9% to 12% of nominal wages.
Under continuing financial pressure, payroll taxes were increased again in 1993 to 12.5% of
nomninal wages and the ceiling on wages was raised to the equivalent of 18 times the minimum
wage. And in 1994, the ceiling on taxable income was raised to 25 times the minimum wage.
Despite the adjustments in the financing system, health care expenditures continued to outpace
revenues.
7.    In 1996, annual expenditures were equivalent to approximately US$4.26 billion, while
annual revenues were limited to US$4.1 billion, thus producing a deficit of an estimated US$151
million. Table 1 displays the annual revenues and expenditures for the health and maternity
care programs (Seguro de Enfermedad y Maternidad SEyMA) of IMSS for the period 1991 to 1996.
Table 1: IMSS Annual revenues and expenditures: 1991-1996
1996 US$ millions
Year Employer- Govt. Other  Total  Health  Other  Admin. Other  Total  Deficit/ Spending/
employee                       Care  benefits                      Surplus beneficiary
1991    3,615    244  113   3,971   3,122    234     382   317   4,054   (83)       104
1992    3,949    270  126   4,345   3,395    243     577   327   4,542   (197)      121
1993   4,3:34    286   127   4,747   3,7:12    267   616   357   4,952   (205)      135
1994    4,993    318   171   5,482   3,954    288    653   397   5,292   190        145
1995    4,031    261   193   4,485   3,323    236    556    437   4,553   (68)      133
1996    3,725    218   162   4,105   3,163    201    458   433   4,256   (151)      114
8.    In part, the deficit shown in Table 1 may be attributable to increasingly high levels of
under-reporting and evasion in the Mexican social security system. Beginning in 1990, total
membership in social security began a rapid decline from approximately 45% of the
Economically Active Population to roughly 38%, in 1996.   On the revenue side, a 1993
employment survey shows that under 3% of all workers covered by IMSS social security earned
between 1 and 3 minimum wages, while official IMSS statistics indicate that 19% of the
members report earnings below 3 minimum salaries. The wide disparity in reported wages is



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 3 of 18
an additional source of lost revenues for the IMSS. Additionally, nearly 50% of the privately
insured population also contributes to the social security system, thereby creating an additional
disincentive to report full income levels. The recurrent deficits in the health insurance system
of IMSS led the government to implement changes in the financing system, which aim to
ensure the financial viability of the system.
9.     Changes in the Financing System. In 1995, faced with chronic deficits in the health
insurance programs of IMSS, the government proposed a series of major reforms in the
financing system of social security. The reforms, which were to be implemented on July 1, 1997,
aim to establish a more transparent financing mechanism, allowing for a progressive increase in
coverage, increased levels of competitiveness in the Mexican labor force and economy by
lowering the tax burden on wages, and increased government contributions to social security.
The following table summarizes the principal changes in the financing of the Mexican social
security system.
Table 2: Principal Changes in IMSS Financing for Medical and Matemity Insurance
Financing Prior to July 1,1997   Rate    Revised Financing Scheme           Rate
-pdot July1997)
Formal Sector Workers
Compulsory Payroll Tax up to 25  12.5%    Fixed indexed contributions for all  13.9% of
minimum salaries                      workers affiliated to IMSS       minimum salary
in DF
* employer      70%                   * employer         13.9%, indexed
* employee      25%                                     to Min. Wage DF
* government    5%
- government      13.9%, indexed
to CPI
Over 3 minimum salaries,
additional contribution of 8% of the
difference between worker's wage
and 3 minimum salaries, plus fixed
indexed contributions (13.9% for
employer and 13.9% government):
* employer                      6%
* employee                      2%
Insurance for Self-Employed
Fixed per member contribution         * Employee contribution, as a %    22.4%
of indexed minimum salary
a Government subsidy, as a % of   13.9%
indexed minimum salary
Note: based on previous work on the impact of the reforms: "Mexico: Health Reform under the 1995 Social Security
Law, Issues and Actions", March 1996, and the 1995 Social Security Law.
10.   The changes indicated in the previous table would have a significant impact on IMSS
financing and coverage, and imply an important increase in government contributions to
financing social security in Mexico. In summary, the major changes in the financing system
would:



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 4 of 18
* Shift the burden of payroll taxes from employers and employees to gelneral tax revenues by
converting the 12.5% payroll tax to an indexed employer and GOM contribution equivalent
to 13.9% of the minimum daily wage for the Distrito Federal, or roughly US$173 per capita
per annum, respectively, for all workers earning less than 3 minimum wages;
* Gradually increase the progressiveness of the financing system, by eliminating worker
contributions for those with incomes lower than 3 minimum wages, and increasing
employer contributions to 6% of additional wages above the 3 minirnum wage level and
employee contributions to 2% of the difference between nominal wages and the 3 minimum
wage level. In addition, the law would reduce the rate on employee's marginal income
gradually over 10 years, to reach a leve]L of 1.5%;
* Create tlwo new forms of publicly subsidized health insurance for the informal sector and
self-employed workers, based on indexed per capita contributions of US$ 229 per year for
workers and US$ 173 per member per year GOM subsidy. Under the first of these insurance
schemes, the Family Health Insurance (FHI), the worker contribution is matched by a
government subsidy and coverage is extended to the entire family. The second insurance
plan for self-employed workers, IVRO, includes the same government subsidy and provides
pension iand workers compensation;
* Allow the opting-out of IMSS members (prestaci6n indirecta) by returning a risk adjusted
capitation payment to employers to purchase private health insurance. Under the proposed
system, the allocation is based on the average IMSS expenditures per capita, according to the
age and sex of the employee opting-out. This would vary from the current opt-out
provisions which returns on average between 30 and 70% of total contributions; and
- Additional provisions to stimulate the outsourcing of ancillary services and the purchase of
high technology services in the private sector.
11.  Impact Of Changes In The Legislation - The Social Security Law. As a result of the
changes outlined in the previous section, the Mexican social security system faces a major
challenge to ensure the financial viability of the health insurance system over the medium-to
long-term. O)n the revenue side, the additional government contributions would increase IMSS
revenues, thereby eliminating the chronic deficits in the health insurance system, and creating a
sizable burden on public finances.  On the expenditure side, rapid changes in the
epideniiological and demographic profile, technological change, the fixed costs associated with
maintaining IMSS provider network, and the costs associated with financing the opting-out
scheme, would dramatically increase projected expenditures. The impact on IMSS and public
financing would be focused in the following areas:
12.   Change in Premium Structure. IMSS instituted a change in the premium structure in
July 1997 to address chronic deficits (see para. 13) and systemic inefficiencies. Under the new
system, the premium is divided into two parts: a flat rate, and a progressive element for those
earning salaries above three times the minimum wage. Contributions are capped for salaries
above 25 tinmes the minimum wage. In sum, the changes will change the composition of IMSS
health insurance financing from roughly 95% employer and employer contributions and 5%
Government contributions to 67% employer and employee contributions and 33% Government
contributions. The following figure summarizes the main changes in IMSS financing
promulgated under the 1995 SSL.



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 5 of 18
42.   For   all  salaried    workers,               Distribution of Health Insurance Revenues,
employers and the Government will each                   Before and After Reforms
make an equal contribution equivalent to
13.9% of the 1995 minimum wage, with    100                  O
the  Government  share  indexed  to                              -
inflation  (CPI)  and  the  employer's      ' ,
contribution indexed to minimum salaries   6
in the Federal District. The share paid by   s 50
employers will rise to 20.4%  of the  S  40
minimum wage by 2007, while payments    30
by the Government will be adjusted         20
according to increases in the minimum       1o
wage. For workers earning more than         0
three  times  the  minimum   wage,                  Befom__ 1996__A_te____7       _
additional contributions will be paid:
employers will pay 6% of the wage above
this level and employees will pay 2% of the same portion. This total of 8% will be gradually
reduced to 1.5% over the next decade. By 2007, marginal rates of social security health care
contribution on salaries above three times the minimum wage will be 0.4% for workers and
1.1% for employers. The final 1.5% is due to remain in effect to comply with a constitutional
provision that calls for a proportional element in social security contributions.
43.   The changes indicated above will have a significant impact on IMSS financing and
coverage, and imply an important increase in government contributions to social security. The
changes would: (a) reduce part of the incentives to under-report economic activity; (b) allow a
wider range of the population to opt into the social security system by reducing the cost of
enrollment through a government subsidy for informal sector and self-employed workers; (c)
shift a major burden of payroll taxes from employers and employees to general tax revenues;
(d) increase the progressiveness of the financing system by eliminating contributions for all
workers earning less than 3 minimum salaries and providing public subsidies for insurance to
the self-employed and informal sector workers; and (e) aliow the opting-out of IMSS employees
by returning a per capita fixed fee to employers to purchase private health insurance.
III. Methodology
15.   The financial projections model developed is based on the integration of data from
IMSS, household surveys, labor market studies, and national demographic and economic
statistics into a unified framework to produce a dynamic model to simulate various policy
scenarios.  The basic modeling approach is based on the use of baseline data, which is
consistent with IMSS and Government short-term projections, as a starting point and then
projecting, over a ten year period, the impact of the policy changes in the 1995 SSL. The
emphasis is based on the incorporation of the best available data into a flexible framework that
can easily be improved or modified in the interest of policymakers. The model developed
utilizes the following basic input:
* Projections of national population, by age and sex
* Economic activity participation rates of different groups



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 6 of 18
* General coverage rates of the Economically Active Population (EAP), by Basic Plan, IVRO
and Family Health Insurance
* Distribution by age of the insured members (direct and family members), in the Basic Plan,
IVRO and in the Family Health Insurance
* Health Service utilization rates, by age and gender
* Distribution of health expenditure, by age and gender
* Contribution rates according to the new SSL, including the participation of the Central
Government, worker and employer
* Average salary of the insured members and minimum salaries in the Federal District
* Per capita allocations for opting out and the provision of a public health package
* Coefficients of dependents per insured member for Basic Plan, IVRO and others
e Macroeconomic variables: GDP, Public Expenditure, CPI, minimum salaries, etc.
Nz ti~,Graph 1: Schematic model of variable
interaction
l ____ <,---   ,16.   In addition, several projections
(*i)   , | TA9 1   @                    are included to simulate the financial
F ' | TA9Eff-_ |                 impact of the implementation of a Basic
F1 T;S7llV              1          ,| | Package of Public Health care. Two
options are considered here: (1) coverage
I (J ,| W,{A4                  for the whole population, including
(A| , i , r x .te. b-i)                       those insured members of IMSS and the
Ic~4v SA  S;I     remaining population covered by other
insurance providers or the SSA, and (2)
simulations  for the  population  not
X~siur                    ___,        -      -- ;_ covered. To carry out these estimates a
--t~~-~-------------cost per capita of roughly US$20 per year
is used as a baseline projection; this
=              :~~~~~~~~~~~1 ---------parameter can be easily modified to
simulate different scenarios with respect
-------------         - ---to per capita allocations.  The present
~~~~~~~~ methodology can be easily adapted to
incorporate additional scenarios with
other social security programs, such as ISSSTE, PEMEX, etc.
17.   Expected Results. The preliminary model development is focused on the simulation of
the financial and fiscal impact of the financing changes in the SSL. While the basic model is a
based on a strict interpretation of the changes in contribution rates and government
contributions, the incorporation of demographic changes, overall coverage rates for IMSS
health insurance and macroeconomic projections provide the basis for estimates of the net
impact of the changes. All estimates are presented in real terms and are based on the 1996
exchange rate of 7.60 pesos to the US dollar.



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 7 of 18
18.   The model is formulated in order to allow for the transparent evaluation of the impact
of alternative scenarios, assuming differentiated ranges for key demographic, utilization and
financial variables, as well as alternative policy scenarios. The main variables that can be
modified in the model, include:
* Participation of the population in the economic activity
* Coverage of the different health care programs
* Contributions rates to social security
* Population affiliated to the opting out scheme
* Amount per capita transferred for opting out and to finance the public health package
* Total utilization rate of the health services
* Average cost per person with right to health care services (fixed and variable)
* Average number of dependents for each primary insured member
* Dependents for each primary insured member in opting out scheme
* Structure by age of the different populations
* Minimum salary for the D.F.
* Average salary rates (contractual wages)
19.   Based on changes in these parameters, alternative scenarios are generated for
contributing salaries, income from contributions, total IMSS health insurance revenue, total
IMSS health insurance expenditures, overall financial equilibrium for IMSS health insurance,
and total expected fiscal contributions.
IV. Baseline Information and Initial Assumptions
20.   Based on data and information from IMSS, the World Bank and National Statistics from
INEGI, it is possible to calibrate the financial projections model. The application of any
projections model is based on a series of initial assumptions, baseline data and basic hypotheses
with respect to changes in the model's variables. Simplifying assumptions are often required,
to face the practical limitations of existing data and to translate highly complex calculations into
a comprehensible and manageable framework that will provide valuable information to
policymakers in Mexico.
21.   Because the objective of the modeling is to carry out policy simulations, the assumptions
in the different scenarios, and the variations in the demographic, economic and financial
parameters, must be understood as approximations to acceptable situations.
22.   The principal limitations of this model are: (1) it includes only scenarios for the
population covered by the IMSS, and therefore does not consider the possible effects of the law
on other social security schemes such as ISSSTE; (2) the individual level variations in behavior
of IMSS users are not considered; and (3) it is assumed that the composition of services
provided by IMSS and the cost of these services is constant over the period of evaluation. Thus,
epidemiological changes that might affect the composition of demand and the cost of health
care are not reflected; however, the model may capture some of these effects through the use of
utilization rates by age group and the rates of increasing variable costs. The basic assumptions
include:
* The structure of wages is constant over time;
* There is a level of health expenditure, relatively constant, which is not proportional to the
volume of beneficiaries. This expenditure is considered as the fixed costs of the system;



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 8 of 18
accordingly, the transfer of resources and the responsibility of provision under opting out
would not proportionally reduce this fixed expenditure;
* The age structure of the beneficiaries (primary insured members and dependents) changes
over time, allowing for the simulation of the effect of aging on system costs; and
* Utilization rates of health care services are constant over time2.
23.   Following is a detail of practical aspects, related to the baseline information:
* The official projection of the national population was used as input, the baseline is 93.2
million inhabitants in 1996 and reaches 112 million in the year 2010.
* An increase in the gross rate of participation in economic activity is considered, according to
historical trends in the Mexican economy. This index would go from 40% to 46% between
the years 1996 and 2010, reflecting principally greater female participation in the economy.
* The coverage of IMSS with respect to the economically active population (EAP) starts off
from a level of 28% and reaches levels of 28%, 35% and 40% by the year 2010, according to
"low", 'middle" and "high" scenarios, respectively.
. An alternative measure of projected IMSS coverage, based on the elasticity of new
contributors with respect to increases in GDP (historical estimates yield an elasticity of 0.67),
closely mirrors estimates of total coverage under the model.
* The specific coverage rates of the different insurance schemes (Basic IPlan, Family Health
care and IVRO) are contemplated within the total coverage of the EAP. Also, the model
assumes a final target in the year 2010 for coverage in each of these insurance schemes, and
then assumes a linear growth rate per year to achieve the target. The baseline data for the
FHI schemne is based on existing coverage of the self-insured population (segurofacultativo).
* The total population opting-out is assumed to reach 1.47% (existing levels), 2.5% and 10%,
under the low, middle and high scenarios, respectively.
* As mentioned earlier, the expenditures have been separated in two components: one fixed,
to reflect certain sunk costs, more or less independent from the volume of users, and the
other variable over time, assuming annual real increases in the spending.
* The initial total health care expenditure for IMSS was used as baseline to establish an initial
relative level of fixed expenditure (60%), and the difference between total expenditure and
fixed expenditure is then allocated as variable cost. In both cases (fixed and variable
componernt), modifications can be simulated through out time: for example, total fixed
expenditure in the year 2010 is n times that of the initial year; or, the average variable cost,
by age, increases at an annual rate of r%.
* A total health care expenditures are calculated based on the average expenditure by age
group, the utilization rates by age group and the total beneficiaries in each age group.
* The rest of the expenditure components, such as Administration and Others, are projected as
a fixed proportions of the health care expenditures, based on the relative proportion
calculated for the year 1996.
* With respect to wage contributions, the total expected revenue for each insurance scheme is
based on the total number of direct insured and estimates of contribution rates as a
percentage of the Minimum General Wage for the Federal District (SMGDF in Spanish). The



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 9 of 18
calculation of the equivalent rates is based on the initial salary structure according to the
distribution of the primary insured members by salary range, applying in each case, the
established rates in the SSL; using the existing salary structure of IMSS contributors, the
absolute contributions are established for each health insurance scheme and for each
contributor (workers, employers, government). The absolute contribution rate for each
insurance scheme is later translated into equivalent rates relative to the SMGDF.
* Implicitly, this procedure assumes that the salary structure will remain constant over time,
or that SMGDF will retain the existing proportion with respect to the total salary
distribution. The calculations for the average wage, as a share of the SMGDF, are based on
estimates that 70% of the new members affiliating with the IMSS will contribute in the range
of 1 to 3 minimum salaries, while the remaining 30% will contribute in the range of 3
minimum wages, and above. This assumption is based on an analysis of existing
contributors by income level.
* Net revenues to IMSS excludes the contributions of the 362,000 IMSS workers since there is
no real income from these contributors. Nonetheless, the GOM will have to continue to
make contributions for these members according to the law.
* Baseline estimates for the number of persons that could potentially enroll in the FHI are
based on the assumption that the incorporation of these workers would include the 200,000
independent workers currently affiliated, in addition to 180,000 workers that voluntarily
affiliate after a loss of benefits in the Basic Plan and 200,000 state and municipal employees
eligible for the program. The incorporation of the target population of 580,000, however,
would not be immediate; estimates assume that the FHI program would include all of these
potential members over a period of 2 years.
T The age structure of the different insured populations, is adjusted over time, to simulate
changes in their composition. In the case of the primary insured members, the distribution
by age group for the three insurance schemes is assumed to mirror overall changes in the
composition of the EAP; however, if the information were available, the model allows for the
differentiated modeling of the age structures for each insurance scheme. For the insured
family members (dependents) the variation of the age structure is modeled according to
existing projections of the age distribution of the national population.
* The total number of insured family members is projected through the utilization of
dependent coefficients ( children and spouses) for each primary insured member, according
to age. Once the total of dependents is obtained, these are distributed by age according to the
relative distribution, adjusted over time. For practical reasons, the index of dependents for
each primary insured member is assumed equal for the three insurance schemes (BP, FHI,
and IVRO), as well as the population that selects the opting out system.
V. Alternative Scenarios
24.   The model includes three basic modules: demographic variables, financial variables and
macroeconomic variables, that generate the results. In each of these modules there are several
variables that can be modified, assuming different rates in coverage, utilization and real annual
growth rates. The following sections outline the basic scenarios that are used in the
preliminary projections, however, future scenarios may vary.



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 10 of 18
Coverage of the Economically Active Population:
* Baseline:            34.8% of the EAP covered by IMSS
Alternative scenarios for target coverage by the year 2010:
* Pessimistic scenario:  28% of the EAP
* Medium scenario:    35% of the EAP
* Optimistic scenario:   40% of the EAP
Distribution of coverage among the three main insurance schemes
Target rate for the year 2010:
28%    38%    40%
Basic Plan    35     35      40
Family Health 5.0    7.0    10
IVRO         2.0    3.0    3.0
Financial Variables:
F.ixed Costs: are assumed constant at 60%, howvever, different levels of fixed and variable costs can be
simulated under the model
Real growth rate in fixed costs:
Low scenario:      3% real growth in fixed costs
Medium scenario:   Real accumulated growth of 1% per year
High scenario:     Real accumulated growth of 3% per year
Real growth rate in variable costs
Low scenario:      Real growth of 5 % per year
Medium scenario:   Real accumulated growth of 2% per year
High scenario:     Real accumulated growth of 3.5% per year
Wage growth
Low scenario:      Real growth of 4% in 1997, 2% in 1998 and 0% thereafter
Medium scenario:   Real growth of 3.5% in 1997, 2% in 1998 and 0% thereafter
High scenario:     Real growth of 3.5% in 1997, 2% in 1998 and 1.0% thereafter
Per capita allocation for opting-out:
Scenario: 835 pesos per person per year (US$105).
25.   Remaining variables such as coverage and increases in fixed and variable costs follow
the 3 scenarios presented in the current section. The per member per year allocation can be
adjusted to simulate alternative scenarios.
Macroeconomic Projections:
Real GDP Growth:
According to World Bank and Ministry of Finance projections, the three scenarios use the following
growth rates fr GDP:
1998:      5%
1999-2000: 3.0%
2001-2010:  3.5%
Public expenditures as % of GDP: Assumed constant at 22.5% of GDP



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 11 of 18
VI. Results
26.   The results of the model depend on the assumptions used in the projections model and
the three scenarios indicated in previous section. In this section, the main results are divided
into three areas: (i) the impact of the changes in the SSL on IMSS financing and government
contributions; (ii) the impact of the proposed insurance schemes, Family Health Insurance and
IVRO, on the overall coverage; and (iii) the impact on IMSS financing and fiscal contributions
for the imnplementation of opting out.
27.   Impact on IMSS Financing and Fiscal Obligations.  The proposed changes in the
financing scheme of social security in Mexico would reverse the historic deficit in IMSS
financing and rapidly increase government contributions. The first scenario presented is based
on IMSS financial projections until the year 2005.  While these results are similar to the
estimates presented in the sections on alternative scenarios, the model is not based on dynamic,
but rather linear, assumptions on demographic and financial parameters. Under this base
scenario, characterized by steady growth in expenditures (1.7% per annum), zero wage growth
and declining coverage of the economically active population (from 29% to 27%), IMSS total
real expenditure would increase by nearly 44% from US$ 4.3 billion in 1996 to US$6.2 billion in
2010. While the deficit of nearly US$151 million in 1996 would be eliminated. The 7 years of
surplus, however, would allow IMSS to accumulate a reserve of approximately US$2.2 billion.
Table 3: IMSS' Financial Projections
JUS$ millions)
Total''.''''.'9,'>"='7'^        a77 C                               2,  .         2.  .
Total IMSS Expenditure                  4,256            5,471          5,806        6,197
Total IMSS Earnings                      4,105           5,539          5,924        6,481
Net Revenue                              -151               68            118         284
Reserves                                                   234            746        2,211
Total Insured IMSS (% of EAP)             29%             30%            28%          27%
Total Insured IMSS                  34,321,910       37,806,137     43,921,886   50,779,696
. .....  ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..,.,,..
Payment of "cuotas"                       218            2,087          2,209        2,427
Gov. Contribution as % GDP               .07%             .5%            .51%        .52%
Gov. Contribution as % Pub.              .33%            2.3%           2.4%         2.5%
Spending                     I_I
Assumptions: Average wage (expressed in # of minimum wages)  2.98        2.98         2.98
Real growth in average wage                                0.00           0.00        0.00
Real interest rate earned (%)                              2.0%          2.0%         2.0%
28.   The following section summarizes the results of several alternative scenarios developed
by using the dynamic model described in the present annex. Under the low scenario,
characterized by rapid growth in total fixed (3.5% per annum) and variable expenditures (5%
per annum), zero wage growth and nearly constant coverage of the economically active
population, IMSS total real expenditure would increase by nearly 43% from US$ 4.3 billion in
1996 to US$8.9 billion in 2010. While the deficit of nearly US$151 million in 1996 would be
eliminated over the short-term, the rapid increase in expenditures would outpace revenue
increases, and the deficit would return in the year 2005. The 6 years of surplus, however,
would allow IMSS to accumulate a reserve of approximately US$3 billion, thereby offsetting the
negative flows at the end of the period.



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 12 of 18
29.   For the most part, the increase in total revenues would be accounted for by the rapid
increase in, govemment contributions to social security expected during the first year of full
implementation (1998). Over the period 1996 to 2010, total fiscal contributions would increase
from just over US$218 million to nearly US$2.6 billion, fueled by an increase of nearly 80% in
total IMSS contributors and the extension of coverage to the informal sector. As a percentage
of public spending, government contributions would increase from around 0.33% of public
expenditures prior to the reforms, to around 2.2% in the year 2010 with the reformed financing
scheme. At the same time, government transfers to IMSS would increase from 0.07% of GDP in
1996 to just under 0.47% in 2010 with the reforms.
Table 4: Low Scenario
(US$ millions)
Total IMSS Expenditure            4,256         4,496           6,656        8,882
Total IMSS Revenue                4,105         5,285           6,610        7,838
Net Revenue                 -      151            789   -         46  -      1,044
Reserves                                        1,575           5,215        2,926
Total Insured IMSS (% of EAP)     29%            29%             28%         28%
Total Insured IMSS            34,321,910    36,173,199      52,696,397    64,594,631
Payment of Cuotas (Fiscal cost)    218          1,951           2,237        2,619
Gov. contribution as % GDP       0.07%          0.47%          0.48%        0.47%
Gov. contribution as % Pub.      0.33%          2.07%          2.21%        2.17%
Spending                  I____
30.   Under the medium scenario, which is characterized by 1% accumulated growth in fixed
and a 2% increase in variable expenditures, zero wage growth and an increase in coverage of
the economically active population from 28% to 35%, IMSS total real expenditure would
increase from US$4.3 billion in 1996 to nearly US$8 billion in 2010. At the same time, total
revenues would rise from US$4.1 billion in 1996 to over US$9.7 billion by the year 2010. Under
this scenario, net revenues would reach over US$1.7 billion by the year 2010, and the reserve
would grow to over US$23 billion.
31.   In terms of the fiscal implications, over the period 1996 to 2010, total fiscal contributions
would increase from just over US$218 million to nearly US$3.4 billion, fueled by an increase of
nearly 130% in total IMSS contributors and the extension of coverage to the informal sector.
The increase in coverage would be derived from changes in the labor market, and aging
population, and a slight increase in the coverage target for IMSS insured. As a percentage of
public spending, government contributions would increase from around 0.33% of public
expenditures prior to the reforms, to around 2.8% in the year 2010 with the reformed financing
scheme. At the same time, government transfers to IMSS would increase from 0.07% of GDP in
1996 to 0.6% of GDP in 2010 with the reformLs.



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 13 of 18
Table 5: Medium Scenario
US$ millions
f               1    SBasln     199            2005        2Q1
Total IMSS Expenditure               4,256        4,380          6,166        7,974
Total IMSS Revenue                   4,105        5,417          7,590        9,654
Net Revenue                            151        1,037          1,425        1,680
Net Reserve                              -        1,920         12,623       23,299
Total Insured IMSS (% of EAP)         29%          29%           32%          35%
Total Insured IMSS               34,321,910    36,403,471   60,075,999    78,951,076
Fiscal Implications                       _____
Payment of Cuotas                     218         1,764          2,639        3,367
Gov. contribution as % GDP          0.07%        0.48%          0.56%        0.60%
Gov. contribution as % Pub.         0.33%        2.13%          2.60%        2.80%
Spending                                 _
32.   Under the high scenario, which is characterized by 3% accumulated growth in fixed and
a 3.5% annual increase in variable expenditures, 1% wage growth and an increase in coverage
of the economically active population from 28% to 40%, IMSS total real expenditure would
increase by over 100% from US$4.3 billion in 1996 to US$10.2 billion in 2010. At the same time,
total revenues would rise from US$4.1 billion in 1996 to over US$12.6 billion by the year 2010.
Under this scenario, net revenues would reach over US$2.4 billion by the year 2010, as a result
of the increase in coverage and the rise in real wages, and the net reserve would reach US$26.3
billion.
33.   In terms of the fiscal implications, total fiscal contributions would increase to nearly
US$4.5 billion between 1996 and 2010. As in the low and medium scenarios, the increase in
coverage would be derived from changes in the labor market, and aging population, and a
slight increase in the coverage target for IMSS insured. Under this optimistic scenario for
coverage, government contributions as a percentage of public spending would increase from
around 0.33% of public expenditures prior to the reforms, to over 3.7% in the year 2010 with the
reformed financing scheme. At the same time, government transfers to IMSS would increase
from 0.07% of GDP in 1996 to just over 0.8% of GDP in 2010 with the reforms.
34.   Impact of Alternative Health Insurance Schemes for Self-employed and Informal Sector
Workers. The introduction of two new insurance schemes for the self-employed has the
potential to significantly increase coverage of social security in Mexico.  At present, the
voluntary insurance scheme for the self-employed and informal sector workers is limited to
around 250,000 workers, due to a lack of incentives to affiliate and little or no promotion of the
program by IMSS.  It is estimated that the new insurance schemes, would attract a large
percentage of the self-employed and informal sector workers that have the capacity to pay for
health insurance.
35.   While the two new programs, FHI and IVRO, have the potential to increase coverage to
the self-employed and informal sector, it is important define the eligibility requirements,
benefit package and control systems to avoid the risks associated with self selection and moral
hazard. The current estimates of expenditures, revenues and total coverage of these programs



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 14 of 18
assume that the age-sex distribution of enrolled members is equivalent to that of the population
enrolled in the Basic insurance scheme of IMSS. Nonetheless, the rmodel allows for the
simulation of alternative scenarios, assuming both higher utilization rates for this group (moral
hazard) and differences in the age structure and the number of dependents per insured
member.
36.   Table 6 summarizes the estimated increases in coverage for these two programs under
the low and high scenarios. Under the low scenario, the programs would grow from current
levels of roughly 250,000 workers covered to around 2.6 million workers in the year 2010. The
government subsidy for the workers in the FHI scheme, equivalent to 13.9% of the indexed
minimum wage, would increase from under US$20 million in 1997 to over US$355 million in
the year 2010.
37.   The high scenario presents a fairly optimistic scenario for IMSS coverage of the self-
employed and the informal sector. Under this scenario, the number of workers covered by the
family health insurance would grow to over 5 million, while the number of members affiliated
to the IVRO program would reach 1.5 million self-employed and informal sector workers. The
public subsidies under this scenario would be significant. Government spending to finance
public subsidies of these programs would reach over US$800 billion by the year 2010.
Table 6: Projection of total coverage, by insurance scheme
Total National    93,181,633   96,254,388   111,983,885 96,254,388 111,983,885
Population
IMSS contributors   12,255,133   13,512,615    21,854,994 14,188,205  31,106,206
IMSS Basic H.Ins.   12,255,133   13,118,522    18,257,300 14,188,205  31,106,206
schemie
IMSS Family Health Insurance     281,496     2,569,781    562,991   5,139,562
IMSS IVRO                        112,598     1,027,912   168,897   1,541,869
Total iMSS insured  34,321,910   38,912,710    64,594,631 39,913,229  83,978,246
(incl. dependents)
Total Govt. Subsidy           38,934,682   355,435,690 37,164,710 801,027,664
(US$ millions)
% population           40%         41%          46%        41%        46%
covered by IMSS
38.   Impact of Opting-out on IMSS Financial Balance. The present section summarizes the
impact on IMSS revenues and expenditures of the extension of the proposed opting-out
(prestaci6n indirecta). This policy option, which is not part of the legislative changes but figures
prominently in the menu of policy options to improve the efficiency and quaLlity of IMSS health
care services, would devolve to paying members a fixed cuota in order to privately purchase
health insurance. As indicated in a previous World Bank Paper ("Mexico Health Reform under
the 1995 Social Security Law", March 1996), the policy would free IMSS from the financial
management and provision of health services for a segment of the population, while likely



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 15 of 18
enhancing quality and choice for a large sector of the population with the capacity to pay for
private health insurance.
39.   Two alternative financing options are considered in the current simulations. The first
scenario, which resembles the current situation for workers opting-out of IMSS, would devolve
70% of the worker-employer contributions to IMSS in order to finance part of the private
insurance premiums that the firms would purchase for their workers. This proposal runs the
risk of encouraging the opting-out of the population with the lowest risk of poor health, namely
those with high concentrations of young and healthy workers. While the current simulations
do not model situations of adverse selection of the young and low utilization populations, the
model allows for future simulations of the impact this situation on IMSS financing. The
scenario presented in the preliminary estimates of the impact of opting-out affect IMSS total
expenditures in two ways. First, the devolution of 70% of cuotas is considered as a transfer
payment to enrolled firms. This scenario considers an average wage of 2.5 times the average
wage of members who do not opt out. The second impact is captured through the ratio of fixed
to variable expenditures. The sunk costs of the system, or the fixed costs, are not lowered by
the reduction in utilization of members opting-out of the system, while the variable costs would
be reduced due to a reduction in total utilization.
40.   The second scenario considers the implementation of a risk adjusted per capita payment
instead of the devolution of 70% of worker-employer contributions. While this scenario would
likely reduce the problems of adverse selection indicated above, it would still have a significant
impact on IMSS expenditures. This scenario considers the transfer of a per capita payment,
adjusted for age and sex, equivalent to the capitation payments that would apply internally for
IMSS. That is, the per capita payment to be returned to workers would attempt to simulate the
expected cost of care. Under this scenario, the average yearly payment per capita is estimated
at just over US$105 per capita, with a low of US$43 for the population aged 5-9 years of age,
and a high of US$1,900 for the population aged 75-79 year. Once again, the basic impact of this
policy would be reflected through an increase in IMSS expenditures.
41.   The simulations are presented using three alternative scenarios with respect to the total
population eligible for opting out. According to estimates by FUNSALUD of the use of private
insurance among IMSS members and the total population, 5.3% of all IMSS insured members
are also privately insured, while 1.9% of the Mexican population has private health insurance.
The three scenarios for coverage of the opting-out scheme are based on these survey estimates
and the existing coverage of the opting-out scheme. The low scenario, which assumes that
100% of IMSS members with private insurance would choose the opting-out scheme, translates
into a coverage rate of 5% of the IMSS insured opting-out. The second and third scenarios will
depend to a great extent on the size of the transfer. The closer the transfer approximates the
actual costs of private insurance, the greater the possibility of extending coverage to the insured
population without the capacity to pay the difference between the cost of private insurance and
public social security.
42.   The scenarios of primary insured members who choose opting out are expressed as
coefficients with respect to total of IMSS beneficiaries, and assume an increase of 10% of the
primary insured members of the IMSS for the first three years of projection, and after a linear
increase until it reaches a determined goal (e.g., 20% of total direct insured) in the year 2005. In
the low scenario, for example, the proportion of primary insured members in opting out
scheme reaches 4.5% of the total direct insured member of IMSS in the year 2004, and remains



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 16 of 18
constant thereafter. The initial assumption of 10% annual increases is based on estimates of the
primary insured members who work for companies that could potentially pay the difference
between the per capita allocation for opting out and the cost of private insurance.  The low
scenario simulates a situation where nearly all existing members with double coverage (IMSS
and private insurance) choose the opting-out scheme. The medium scenario, assumes that the
transfers would allow for an additional segment of IMSS insured to choose the opting-scheme,
increasing this scheme to 10% of the total IMSS insured. The high scenario represents a
situation in which the transfers for the purchase of private insurance would closely resemble
the cost of private insurance, thereby increasing total coverage to 20% of total IMSS direct
insured population.
43.    Table 7 on the next page summarizes the results of the simulations, demonstrating the
effect of the three scenarios for total coverage as well as the two alternative financing schemes
(70% contributions and a per capita risk adjusted payment). The results shows that the impact
on IMSS totaLl expenditures would be significant, ranging from 2.2% in the low case scenario to
a high of 13% in high case scenario. At the same time, it is clear from the simulation that the
devolution of 70% of worker-employer contributions would have a significantly higher cost
than a risk adjusted per capita payment in function of IMSS costs per capita.
Table 7: Simulation of Impact of Opting-out
Total National          93,181,633   96,254,388  111,983,885   96,254,388  111,983,885   96,254,388  111,983,885
Population                                                                      _
IMSS Contributors       12,255,133   13,512,615   21,189,906   12,998,384   25,623,388   14,188,205   29,191,800
Members Opting-Out        191,330     199,227     321,268     204,622     674,864     209,188    3,110,621
Total population covered  543,860     568,838     963,708     584,243    2,024,387    597,278    9,330,916
by opting out
Coverage of optilng-out/    1.6%        1.5%        1.5%        1.60/u      2.6%        1.5%       10.70%o
total IMSS contributors
% total population         0.580/u     0.59A      0.86%       0.61%       1.81%       0.620/l     8.33%
Total Expenditures for Opting-out (US$ millions)
withtreturn of 70% worker-employer pmts.  88         128          90         263          92       1,353
% of Total IMSS Spending                2.1%        2.4%        2.0%        3.3%        2.0%       13.0%
witih per capita payment                  66         117          90         263          92       1,353
equal to IMSS costs
% of Total IMSS Spending                1.5%        1.3%        2.0%        3.3%        2.0%       13.0%
44.    Under the low scenario, with a target coverage rate of 1.5% for the insured population
opting-out, the total number of direct insured opting-out would rise from just under 200,000
workers to over 300,000 by the year 2010. Total expenditure for the program with a 70%
transfer and a risk adjusted capitation payment would increase from US$88 million in 1998 to
over US$128 million by the year 2010, and US$66 million in 1998 and US$117 million,
respectively. In terms of total IMSS spending, however, the low scenario would have only a
minor effect on total spending, increasing as a share of total expenditures from around 2% to
2.4% in the case of a 70% transfer, and 1.5% and 1.3% with the capitation system.



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 17 of 18
45.   The impact on IMSS financing under the medium and high scenarios would be
considerably higher. Under the medium scenario, total direct insured members opting-out
would rise from 204,000 workers in 1998 to around 674,000 workers in 2010, with total coverage
reaching nearly 2% of the total population. Total expenditures would increase from US$90
million in 1998 to nearly US$263, under the 70% transfer scenario. As a share of total IMSS
expenditures, the opting-out scheme would account for between 2% and 3.3% of total spending.
46.   The final scenario depicts an optimistic scenario of the growth of private insurance
coverage in Mexico. Under this scenario, the number of persons covered by opting-out would
increase from just under 0.6% of the total population to over 8%. The total expenditures by
IMSS to finance private insurance would increase to over US$1.3 billion, or 13% of total
expenditures.
47.   Summary of Results. The previous section presents preliminary estimates on the impact
of the SSL reforms on the IMSS financial situation, as well as the fiscal implications the changes.
It is clear from the simulations that chronic deficits of the IMSS health insurance schemes
would be immediately offset by the dramatic increase in public financing through general
revenues. Through the simulation of different scenarios, it is possible to summarize the impact
of the SSL changes, and the implementation of opting-out and the financing of the basic public
health package, on government and IMSS finances. While both the opting-out and the basic
package would have a high cost in terms of annual expenditures, it appears viable from a
financial standpoint that the increase in IMSS revenues would allow for the sustainable
financing of these programs.
48.   It is also important to highlight that the results presented in the current document are
broad estimates of the effect of the proposed changes on IMSS financing and public obligations
to the social security system. Future estimates will require the simulation of additional
scenarios that take into account the possible effects of adverse selection and moral hazard on
IMSS expenditures, modeled through alternative scenarios of the age and income distributions
of the population opting-out, as well as different scenarios of the utilization of these
populations. In addition, future estimates will consider the impact on IMSS expenditures of the
reforms proposed on the provision side, which aim to increase efficiency and quality of the
health care services provided by IMSS providers.
49.   In summary, the principal results of the simulation include:
*  A significant increase in the income of IMSS. According to the selected scenario, IMSS
revenues will increase from around US$4.1 billion in 1996 to US$ 7.8 billion in the low
scenario and to US$ 12 billion in the year 2010 under the optimistic scenario.
*  Elimination of the regime's deficit. An increase in the fiscal contribution would imply a
surplus that would vary between US$ 1.5 billion in the low scenario and US$ 2.3 billion
in the high scenario for the year 2010.
*  An increase in the fiscal contributions from US$ 218 million in 1996 to US$2.6 billion,
US$3.4 or US$4.5 billion in the year 2010, in the low scenario, medium and high
scenarios, respectively.
*  The fiscal contribution will increase from 0.07% of the GDP in 1996 to 0.5% in 2010 in
the low scenario and to 0.8% in the high scenario. Also, the fiscal contribution as a



Annex 9
Financial Projections Model
Page 18 of 18
piercentage of the public expenditure will increase from 0.33% to 2.2% in the low
scenario and to 3.7% of the public expenditure in the year 2010 under the high scenario.
*  The number of primary insured members by the IMSS will increase from approximately
12 million in 1996 to 21 million in the low scenario and to 31 million in the year 2010
under the high scenario.
*  The effect of aging in the population has a significant impact in the expenditure. Given
the utilization rates in this group, the expenditure of the IMSS will increase in
approximately 10% as a result of population aging.
*  An increase in the number of persons covered by opting out from around 200,000 in
1996 to about 674,000 and 3.1 rmillion in 2010, under the medium scenario and high
scenarios, respectively.
*  The cost for opting-out amounts to US$ 128 million in the year 2010 in the low scenario
and US$ 1.4 billion in the year 2010, under the high scenario.



Annex 10
Glossary
Page 1 of 4
GLOSSARY
Accountability to patients: process by which IMSS health care providers are held responsible
and express commitment to the insured population.
Basic health package: set of health care services that a provider must guarantee to its insured
population.
Budgetholding organizations: refers to a provider organization, including clinics and
hospitals, that receives resources from IMSS through capitation or patient based allocation
mechanisms, and has the full authority to control its expenditures and internal budgeting,
including the purchase of secondary services from other providers (medical and non-medical).
Capitation formula: budgetary instrument used to allocate resources to providers of health
services on a population basis, adjusting the amount of resources allocated to budgetary units
by specific risk factors, such as age, sex and other factors that effect the demand for health
services.
Competition: refers to mechanisms to allow users to have some choice of physician or medical
area. Competition, as envisioned within IMSS, will be based on the quality of services, rather
than price, as no monetary transfers are involved between users and physicians or IMSS
operating units.
Cost-effective technologies: r efers to technologies that provide the best performance available,
in terms of productivity, effectiveness and quality per monetary unit spent.
Decentralization: refers to the transfer of responsibility and decision making from the central
level to the specialty hospitals and to the medical area units. Under Mexican law, there is a
difference between "decentralizacion" as a transfer of processes to state or municipal
governments, and "desconcentracion", as a transfer to regionalized federal dependencies. For
IMSS, the second meaning applies.
Diagnosis Related Groups (DRGs) or case-based payment systems: one of several methods of
patient classification systems developed as instruments for clinical management and hospital
payment systems. The underlying principle of the system is based on grouping similar
diagnostic categories, using the ICD-9 classification system, according to expected resource
utilization for a given group. The system allows health managers to benchmark a number of
quality and productivity indicators according to diagnostic group.
Extending coverage: increasing the number of members affiliated with IMSS.
Fee-for-service: payment mechanism through which providers are paid in function of the units
of service provided to the patients. Typically, these payment systems are based on pre-
established fee schedules and the patient or a third party insurer directly makes a payment to
the health provider in exchange for its services. IMSS does not operate any fee-for-service
scheme for the insured population.



Annex 10
Glossary
Page 2 of 4
Fiscal burden: refers to the cost that the Ministry of Finance (SHCP) has to assume to pay for
the increased budgetary transfers to IMSS.
Head Office: IMSS central administration, which currently includes the following areas:
General Director, Medical Services, Finance, Legal, Non-medical Benefits, Administrative,
Affiliation and Collection departments.
Increasing user choice: refers to the process by which IMSS will allow users to have choice
within the IMSS system.
Innovative Development Fund (IDF): set of intemal IMSS regulations for the management of
budget allocations dedicated to modernize IMSS infrastructure and equipment. In order to
obtain resources from this fund in a Medical Area unit or in a Specialty Hospital, each project
will be evaluated by a central level committee. Only projects that prove to be cost effective will
be financed.
Integrated health care package (Comprehensive care package): defined set of preventative,
curative and rehabilitative health care services that must be provided to the insured population.
For IMSS, this is defined as the Comprehensive Health Services Model ("Modelo de Atenci6n
Integral a la Salud).
Integrated health delivery units: budgetholding units that comply with the requirements
established through the SHIF guidelines and mechanisms that provide healthcare services to
the insured population.
IMSS Financial Strengthening Program, 1998-2000 (Programa de Fortalecimiento Financiero):
Medium term program prepared by IMSS management aimed at the strengthening of IMSS
financial mid- and long-term cycle. It conunits IMSS to saving a certain amount of resources for
the creation of reserves for each individual insurance branch, and also for some long-term
liabilities such as IMSS Workers' pension scheme. It also includes the IMSS Investment
Program for 1998-2000, initiatives to improve financial, budgetary and general accounting
process and related information systems, and other elements.
IMSS Inveistment Program, 1998-2000: Document prepared by IMSS management to identify
investment needs in infrastructure, equipment and maintenance.    It proposes the
reinforcement of social, medical and financial cost-effectiveness criteria.
Managed Care Organizations (MCOs): non-IMSS, publicly financed, integrated health care
delivery units, responsible for providing the integrated health care package to a predefined
population, and managing the process of purchasing health care services for that population,
using a combination of proprietary installations and sub-contracts with other providers.
Management Agreement or Contract: administrative agreement, internal to IMSS system, to
allocate resources of IMSS health insurance to medical area units and third level hospitals.
These agreements would set clear and measurable objectives and indicators on quality,



Annex 10
Glossary
Page 3 of 4
productivity, user satisfaction and budget execution, and set the framework for decentralizing
health care services. These agreements will take into account various elements such as budget
allocations, geographical area, evaluation methods, responsibilities of the medical zone or the
specialty hospital, cost transfer through Diagnostic Related Groups, and other terms.
Mechanisms for evaluation of these agreements shall be internal to IMSS.
Market: internal interactions of IMSS users and units for service provision based upon a set of
policies to allow choice by users. These policies strive to promote cost-adjusted quality-based
competition. In particular, IMSS operating units shall not enter into commercial contracts
between each other or with IMSS central offices.
Medical Area Units: health care units composed of at least one second level hospital, and
several first level family clinics (UMFs). IMSS is currently geographically divided in 139
Medical Area Units (zonas medicas), each with a user population and infrastructure.
Minimum health care programs: refers to the comprehensive health care package defined
above.
Opting-in: mechanism through which independent and informal sector workers have the
alternative to pay insurance premiums to IMSS, and be insured through IMSS voluntary
scheme, as described in the Social Security Law.
Opting-out: mechanism through which workers affiliated with IMSS have the choice between
receiving health care from IMSS as a provider or from other providers, in terms of laws and
regulations in effect. In any case, users remain part of the overall social security financing and
insurance system and comply with terms of laws and regulations in effect.
Payment mechanisms: refers to the instruments used to transfer resources between IMSS as a
financial agent and service units. Two common methods include capitation and case based
payment systems that group types of patients and assign monetary values to the treatment (see
DRG).
Performance-based incentives for providers: incentives and mechanisms established to
promote the improvement in the quality of services provided by IMSS health care delivery
network. Performance-based mechanisms may link specific performance and development
objectives with a variable salary or bonus.
Provider: IMSS Medical Area Unit or Specialty Hospital that belongs to social security health
care delivery network.
Provision: process of providing healthcare services to IMSS insured population.
Purchasing: in the case of IMSS, it refers to the budgeting and management agreements
whereby Medical Area Units and Specialty Hospitals commit themselves to agreed clinical
activity target levels and quality standards in exchange for process specific budget allocations
in accordance with the SSHF operational guideline.



Annex 10
Glossary
Page 4 of 4
Reform: refers to the "Programa de Reforma del Sector Salud" issued in March 1996.
Social Security Health Insurance Fund: refers to the global resources available to IMSS by law
to provide health services, and the set of intemal regulations to allocate budgetary resources.



Annex 11
Documents in Project File
Page 1 of 2
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Actuarial Research Corporation, 1997. A Preliminary Partition of Spending in the Mexican Health
System.
Actuarial Research Corporation, 1997. Description and Sample Application of a Supplemental Health
Sector Model for Mexico. Draft Report.
Ard6n, Roque, October 1997. Back to Office Report.
Bloom, Erick A., 1997. Health and Health Care in Mexico.
CEDESS, 1997. Reflexiones sobre las reformas en la Seguridad Social.
Cercone, James, 1997. The Impact of Financing Reforms on the Mexican Social Security System.
Chenichovsky, Dov and Roter, Raphael, 1997. Health System Financing in Mexico.
Chernichovsky, Dov, 1995. Health System Reforms in Industrialized Democracies: An Emerging
Paradigm.
Chemichovsky, Dov, 1997. Training in Health System Policy and Management.
COPARMEX y AMIS, 1997. Proyecto de reversi6n de cuotas. Enfermedades y Maternidad.
FUNSALUD, 1995. Econom{a y Salud. Propuestas para el Avance del Sistema de Salud en Mexico.
Informefinal.
FUNSALUD, 1996. Health and the Economy. Proposals for Progress in the Mexican Health System.
Overview.
FUNSALUD, 1997. Observatorio de la salud. Necesidades, servicios, politicas.
Godindaraj, Ramesh, et. al., 1997. Health Expenditures in Latin America and the Caribbean.
IMSS Comisi6n Ejecutiva, 1997. Programa institucional de inversi6n 1998-2000.
IMSS. A New Social Security Law.
IMSS. Lineamientos Estrategicos 1996-2000.
IMSS. Reporte de Gesti6n. Septiembre 1997
KPMG, October 3, 1997. Report of a World Bank Mission. IMSS. A framework for implementing
health sector reform. Final version.
Langwell, Kathryn, 1997. Implementation of Health Reform in Mexico. Summary of Progress and
Critical Issues Identified during World Bank Preparation Missions.
Lewis, Maureen, 1997. Concept Paper. Mexico: Selected Issues in Health Care Financing.
Lewis, Maureen, 1997. Supplemental Health Sector Model. Preliminary Inputs, Outputs and
Implications.



Annex 11
Documents in Project File
Page 2 of 2
Lyons, Howard, 1997. An Approach to the Completion of the IMSS Corporate Structure Review.
n/e/r/a, 1997. The Health Care System in Mexico.
OECD, 1996. The Reform of Health Care. Chapter 12. Health Policy Studies No. 2.
Poder Ejecutivo Federal. Programa de Reftrma del Sector Salud 1995-2000.
IMSS Working Papers:
El peso de la enfermedad en derechohabientes del IMSS, 1998.
Encuestas rapidas para medir la percepcion de la calidad del servicio, 1998.
Manual operativo para el Fondo Innovativo de Inversi6n, 1998.
Modelo institucional de atenci6n integral a la salud, 1998.
Programa de capacitaci6n directiva, 1998.
Proyecci6n Financiera 1998-2000, 1998.
Proyecto de Reforma del IMSS, 1998.
Proyecto de Reforma del IMSS. Sintesis Ejecutiva, 1998.
Sistema institucional de atenci6n a la salud, 1998.
Zonas Medicas, 1998.



Annex 12
Economic Indicators
Page 1 of 10
Mexico at a glance                                                                    83/18197
Latin Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             America middle-__
M exico  & Carib. Income            Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                            93.4       485       479
GN P per capita 1996 (US$)                               3,640      3.710    4,540                  Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                  340.0      1,799     2,173
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Po pulatio n I(%)                                          1.9        1.7       1.5      GNGrs
Laborforce ()2.8                                                      2.3       1.8      G                                    rs
per i --                   --     primary
M oat recent estimate (latest yearavailable since 1989)                                  capita                         enrollment
P overty: headcount index (% ofpopulation)                  ..          .       
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                     75          74       73
Life expectancyat birth (years)                            72          89       69
Infant m ortality (per 1,000 live births)                  33         37        35                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% ofpopulation)                       87"        80'O     86"
Illiteracy (%of population age 15+)                         10         13       13
G ro ss prim ary en ro llm ent ( o f s c h ooI-age po pula tio n)  11l  110    107           -M          exico
M ale                                                                                             Upper-m iddle-inco me gro up
F em ale
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
197 5    19885       1995     19 96
Economic ratios*
GOP (billions US$)                              94.4    183.6       287.0    334.7
Gross domestic investmentiGDP                   22.3      20.8       19.7      20.9              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP                5.7      15.5       21.7      22A
Gross domestic savingslGDP                       19.0     25.9       22.7      23A
Gross national savings/GDOP                      17.2     22.1       19.4      20.7
Current account balance/GD P                    -4.4       0.4       -0.8      -0.6
Interest payments/GDP                            1.2       5.1        3.9       3.3      Savings                        Investmeant
Total debt/GDP                                   19.3     52.8       57.8      47.0
Total debt service/exports                       41.1     50.7       33.8      42.8
Present value of debt/GOP                          .         ..      55.5
Present value of debtlexports                      .         ..     218.3                             Indebtedness
19 76-856 19 86 -96    19956      19 9 61997-056
(average annual gro wthi)                                                                   -M exico
GOP                                    4.6      2.4       -6.2        5.1       4.9Upemidenc egru
GNP per capita                          1.7      0.3      -9.3        3.7       8.7Upe-id-ncm   ru
Exports of goods and services          11.7     5.1       33.3       16.6       7.7-
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     19 85      19 95     199 6 
(%of GOP)                                                                                Growth rates of output and investmen
Agriculture                                      10.8      8.7        5.7       5.9      40
Industry                                        29.9      33.5       27.9      28.8      2:
M anufacturing                                 21.9     23.5       20.8       21.5
Services                                        59.4      57.8       68.4      65.3
-20                         94 a  92  3  S
P rivate co nsum ptio n                         71.6      64.8       86.9      66.5    .-40
General go vernm ent co nsum ptio n              9.3       9.3       10A        10.1
Im po rts of go ods and services                 9.0      10.4       18.8      19.9     .          - GoI    -O--*-GDP
19 75 -85 19 86 -96     1995      19 9 6                                      _
(average annual growth)                                                                  Growth rates of exports and imports 
Agriculture                         ~~~~     ~~~~        ~~~~~3.1  0.6  1.0  1.2  4
Industry                                         4.7      2.9        -7.8      10.4
M anufacturing                                  4.1     3.2         -4.8      10.9      20
Services                                         4.8      2.3        -6.2       3.4       0
P rivate consumption                             3.7      3.1        -9.5       2.3               91   92    93    94         9 6 9
General government consumption                   6.3      1.5        -1.3       3.       2   
Gross domestic investment                         1.7     4.9       -34.8      27.5     -401
Imports of goods and services                    2.0    14.4        -26.8      27.8
Gross national product                           4.2       2.6       -7.7       5.7              -E xports--Ipot
Note: Sectoral shares in the National Accounts are expressed are percentages of GOP at factor cost.
*The diamo nds showfour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing,the diamond wyilt
be incomplete.



Annex 12
Economic Indicators
Page 2 of 10
Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1SIS6      1996      1996      I
Domestic prirces                                                                         Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                              40
Consumerprices (ave.)                           152       57.7       34.9      39.0     30 
Implicit GDP deflator                            1S.5     56.5       37.9      31.5     20
Government finance                                                                     I 
(%ofGDP) |    ---' -+'a- 
Current revenue                                    ..     314        22.8      22.8              91   92    93    94    95    96
Currentbudgetbalance                              ..      -1.6        2.7       0.1    f         -      GDPdef.  -0--CCPI
Overall surpluslNeficit                           ..    -6.2         -0.1      -0.3         _            _       _____
TRADE
1976     1986       1996      1996
(millions US5)                                                                         jExport and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fc b)                               ,,  22,931      53,363   65,495    1 70,000
Fuel                                              .,  14,767      8,423    11,654      6000 T
n.a.                                                                                   5000'
Manufactures                                     ,,   6,245      40.379   49,800       40000
Total imports (cif)                               ,,  14,533       46,274   58:964       30,000
Food                                                    1082      5,335     6,657       20,000
Fuel and energy                                ..                                      10 000
Capital goods                                    ..    3,E5       8,697    t0,922    |
Export price index (987=100)                               '5         103      105              90   91  92  93  94  95  96
Importpriceindex(1987=100)                        ..       99          81       79                    mEoports    lmports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                         ..       127        128       133
BALANCE of PAYM ENTS
1976     1986       1996      19 96- -
(millions USS)                                1976      19E6       1996      1996      i Current account balance to GDP ratio
Exports of goods and services                  6,066   27,726      63,028   76,274       (%)
Imports of goods and services                  8,466    19,915    55,275    69,195
Resource balancis                             -2,400     7,811      7,754    7,079
Netincome                                     -1,783   -8,998    -13,290   -13,532    |3
Net current transfers                             59     1986       3,960     4,531                     _
Current account balance,                                                                 -s 'I I I
before officialcapitaltransfers              -4,124      800      -1576    -1,922      -e t     
Financing items (net)                          4,327    -3,223      11,167    3,696     -7
Changes in net reserves                         -204     2,423     -9,591    -1,774     - i
M emo:
Reserves includinggold (mill. US$)             1,893    4,997      16,847    19,433
Conversion rate (,boa1USS)                   t3E-02        0.3        6.4       7.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1980       1996      1996       -       -      -             -
(millions USS)                                                                           Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. J
Totaldebtoutstandinganddisbursed               18,231   96,867    185,743   157,384
lBRD                                         t1123     4,034     13,823    12,568                              A
IDA                                                   0               0        0            300677                5380.2
Total debt service                             2,613   15,293      23,556   35,860    1                                   C
IBRD                                           116      597       2,372     2,372                                     13278
IDA                                              0         0          0        0
Composition of net reso urce flows                                                                                         D
Official grants                                  8       78          31         ..                                     20341
Official creditors                             381      809      10,343    -8,192
Private creditors                            3,365      -831      5.586    11,639                                       E
Foreign direct investment                     609        491      9,526     7.619              F          -     -    14687.7
Portfolio equity                                 0         0        519    2,995    ,       61061.9
World Bank program
Commitments                                    310      928       2,142      187       A-18RD                        E-sBlatera
Disbursements                                  188      840       1732       1,051     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repaymemts                           39       335        1,411    1409       C - IMF                       G- Short-term
Netflows                                       IS0      505         321     -359               -
Interest payments                               78      262         961      962
Net transfers                                  72       243        -641    -1,321
Development Economics                                                                                                       8118/97



Annex 12
Economic Indicators
Page 3 of 10
Mexico
Health System Reform - IMSS
Economic Indicators
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Grossdomesticproduct             100.0    100.0    100,0    100.0    100.0        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture'                     6.7       6.3      5.7      5.5       6.1         5.8      5.8       5.8      5.8       5.8
Industry'                       28.1      26.8     26.9     27.9      28.4        27.7     28.3      28.7     28.9      29.0
Services'                       65.2     66.9      67.4     66.6      65.5        66.5     65.9      65.6     65.3      65.2
Total Consumption                 81.7     82.9      83.1     77.5     74.6        74.7      77.3     77.7      76.6     75.8
Gross domestic investment         23.3     21.0      21.7     19.8      23.3       24.9      23.5     23.5      24.8     24.8
Government investment            3.8       3.8      3.8       3.3      3.8         3.1      3.1       3.2      3.4       3.4
Private investment              15.8      14.8     15.6      12.8     14.2        17.3     18.4      19.3     20.4      20.4
Increase in stocks               3.7       2.4      2.4       3.7      5.3         4.6      2.0       1.0      1.0       1.0
Exports (GNFS)b                   15.2     15.2      16.8     30.4      32.5       30.8      31.2     31.7      32.3     34.2
Imports (GNFS)                    20.3     19.2      21.7     27.8     30.3        30.5      32.0     32.9      34.0     34.7
Gross domestic savings            18.3     17.1      16.9     22.5     25.4        25.3      22.7     22.3      23.5     24.3
Gross national savings'           16.6     15.1      14.7     19.2     22.7        23.3      20.8     20.3      21.2     21.7
Memorandum itemts
Gross domestic product         363609   403196   420776   286296   329475        396605   428879   465167   503547   751890
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per       3490      3800     4090     3320      3640        3700     4130      4540     4820      6590
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1993
prices)
Gross domestic product at      3.6%      2.0%     4.4%     -6.2%     5.2%        6.9%      5.5%     5.2%      5.2%     5.5%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income          3.8%      1.9%     4.5%    -7.9%      5.3%        6.6%      5.2%     5.1%      5.1%     5.3%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1993 prices)
Gross domestic product at       1.6%     0.0%     2.5%    -7.8%      3.4%        5.0%      3.6%     3.3%    3.3%       3.6%
market prices
Total consumption              2.3%    -0.3%      2.4%   -10.1%      0.1%        4.3%      6.1%     3.7%     1.6%      3.5%
Privateconsumption             2.6%    -0.4%      2.7%   -11.1%      0.5%        4.3%     6.3%      3.6%     1.4%      3.5%
(Continued)



Annex 12
Economic Indicators
Page 4 of 10
Mexico
Health System Reform - IMSS
Economic Indicators (Continued)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)d
Current revenues                  23.7      23.1      22.8     22.8      23.2        22.8      21.4      21.4      21.6      21.6
Current expenditures              18.6      19.5      19.2     19.6      19.4         19.5     19.1      19.1      19.1      18.5
Current account surplus (+)        5.0       3.6      3.5       3.2       3.7         3.3       2.3       2.2       2.5       3.1
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditire                3.6       3.0      3.7       3.2       3.7         3.8       3.9       4.0      4.2        4.2
Overall Balance                    1.5       0.7     -0.1       0.0       0.0        -0.5      -1.6      -1.S      -1.7      -1.7
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market         26.9      27.6      29.7     30.6      28.3           ..
prices)
Growth of M2 (%/6)                22.8      14.5     21.7      33.3      26.2           ..
Privatesectorcreditgrowth/       158.4    182.5    132.8    -99.7        90.5           ..
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 199'3 =100)
Merchandiseexportprice           103.6    100.0    108.0    114.0    115.9          117.3    118.7    121.3    123.9    140.9
index
Merchandiseimportprice            98.6    100.0    102.5    108.1    108.5          110.8    113.0    115.6    118.5    134.8
index
Merchandise terns oftrade        105.0    100.0    105.3    105.5    106.8          105.9    105.0    104.9    104.6    104.6
index
Realexchangerate                 107.4    101.5    105.3    152.9    134.5           112.9    112.9    112.9    112.9    112.9
(US$/LCU)'
Consumerprice index             15.5%      9.8%      7.1%    34.9%     34.4%        18.5%     14.2%    12.0%     10.2%      5.0%
(% growth rate, period average)
Consumerpriceindex              11.9%      8.0%      7.0%    51.7%     27.0%        15.7%     13.0%    11.0%      9.5%      5.0%
(% growth rate, end of period)
GDP deflator                    14.4%      9.5%      8.3%    37.9%     29.6%        17.4%     14.0%    12.0%     10.0%      5.0%
(% growth rate)
a. GDP components estimated at factor cost, as a % of GDP at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Consolidated non-financial public sector
e. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in IJS$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex 12
Economic Indicators
Page 5 of 10
Mexico
Health System Reform - IMSS
Balance of Payments
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports (GNFS)                   55387    61305    71184    89207   106779            122239   133804   147586   162481   256775
Merchandise FOB                46196    51886    60882    79542    96000            110573   120953   133388   146763   231003
Imports (GNFS)'                  73617    76916    91616    81454    99700           120893   137223   153264   169476   260851
MerchandiseFOB                 62129    65367    79346    72453    89469            106343    121120   135651    150299   232111
Resource balance                 -18230   -15611    -20432       7753      7079         1346    -3419    -5678        -6995     4076
Netcurrenttransfers                1114      3117      2527      2206      4531         4827      5191      5583       6004      8633
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance          -24438   -23399   -29662    -1577         -1922       -6274   -11901    -15153   -18178   -23244
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct         4393      4389     10973      9526      7619        11000    11000       11500    12000    13000
investment
Long-termloans(net)                 -22      2494      4628     16329      4314         6739      3536      7614       6114      9151
Official                           619        24      -598    10334    -7793           2708    -3322       4532      -3536       109
Private                           -641      2471      5226      5995     12107         4031      6858     12147      9650       9151
Other capital (net, including    21087    22457       -4330   -14688       8242         2500    -3000       4000      -5000     -5000
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesb               -1020    -5941      18391    -9591      -1768        -8965     -5635    -7961       -4936     -3907
Memtorandum itemfis
Resourcebalance(%of                -5.0%     -3.9%     4.9%       2.7%      2.1%         0.3%     -0.8%    -1.2%       -1.4%     -0.5%
GDP at current market
prices)
Current account balance            -6.7%     -5.8%     -7.0%     -0.6%     -0.6%        -1.6%     -2.8%     -3.3%      -3.6%     -3.1%
% of GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1993 prices)
Merchandise exports                8.2%     16.4%      8.7%     23.7%     18.7%        13.8%      8.1%      7.9%      7.7%       5.9%
Merchandise imports              23.2%       3.8%     18.4%    -13.4%     23.0%        19.6%     11.7%      9.5%      8.1%       5.9%
a. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
b. Includes use of IMF resources.



Annex 12
Economic Indicators
Page 6 of 10
Mexico
Health System Reform - IMSS
External Capital and Debt
Total debt outstandingand       112265   131572   140006   166104   157125          163023   163300   165467   168796  199325.7
disbursed (IDO) (US$m)'
Netdisbursements(USSm)            2164    13041       6489    26451    -4971          5904       277      2167     3329      8961
Total debt service(TDS)          20812    24218    21943    26887    40786           31813    35614    40509    41239    56302
(US$m)'
Debt and debt sermice indicators
(O/D)
TDO/XGSb                        184.1    197.9    181.3    173.4    141.6           123.9    113.2    104.1       96.7      72.8
TDO/GDP                          30.9      32.6      33.3      58.0     47.7         41.1      38.1     35.6,     33.5      26.5
TDS/XGS                          34.1      36.4      28.4      28.1     36.8         24.2      24.7     25.5      23.6      20.6
Concessional/TDO                   1.1      1.1       1.2       0.9       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
IBRD exposure indicators (%/o)
IBRDDS/public]DS                  11.2     15.5      15.0      13.8      8.1         10.9       9.8       8.6      8.6       6.0
PreferredcreditorDS/public       22.9      33.2      30.9      27.4      19.5        21.3      29.2     33.3      22.7       8.8
DS (%)/
IBRDDS/XGS                        3.1       2.9       2.6       2.5      2.1          1.8       1.6       1.6       1.4      0.9
IBRDTDO(US$Sm)'                11966    12322    13038    13823    12568           12110    12305    12162       11506    11271
Share of IBRD portfolio(%)       12.1      11.9      11.8      12.0                    ..        ..
IFC (US$m)
Loans                              67        53       133       63
Equity and quasi-equity /e         64        36       21        12
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (USSm)              0         0         0        0         0            ..       ..
a. Includes public arid publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the [MF, and the
Bank for Intemational Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



Annex 12
Economic Indicators
Page 7 of 10
MEXICO: MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
CURRENCY              1996   1997         98:Jan21 Jan22  Jan23  Jan26  Jan27                          Peso
8.6                           13S  5
Spot: Peso/$ Nominal Exchange Rate                                                        8.4 ---13-
Period Average            7.59   7.92
End-of-Period             7.90   8.07          8.30   8.28   8.32   8.29   8.31           7       --                      12(
7.6                             o
1996   1997          Aug    Se      Oct   Nov   Dec             74115
7.2
RealExchangeRate           124    111           113    111    120    115    111                                          110
Index (Nov 94 = 100)                                                                       ' . -  -                - 
E     INTEREST RATES   1996   1997                Dec30 98:Jan6 Jan13  Jan20  Jan27
_        _                                            lw Inteest Rotes (EOP)
(Annual figures quoted are end-of-year closes)                                            34
32-'.                           -
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES:                                                                    30 : --   -- -------
Cetes (28 day)            25.7   18.8          18.8   18.4   18.7   17.4   17.3           28
(Primary Auction Rate)                                                                    28       .       ...
24          - - - - - -
REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS (GOVERNMENT SECTOR):                                                22         ---,---            A ---
Overnight Repo Rate       25.0   20.5          20.5   18.8   18.5   18.0   16.7           20
16
INTERBANK MARKET:                                                                            '      0                  -
TIIE                      28.6   20.1          20.1   19.6  20.1   19.7   19.2                    C     --E    -  -  - TIIE
F      STOCKS                 1996   1997        98:Jan21 Jan22  Jan23  Jan26  Jan27       r---      -     Bolsaindex
6000                          800
Bolsa Index Peso Terms   3361   5229           4618  4550  4543   4527   4583             5700                          750
Cumulative Adv/Decline                         37.4   35.4   35.2   34.7   36.4           5400                          70- - A
since 12/31/96                                                                        64800     -  650
'4500        __       _  ,-6006
4200-550
Bolsa Index $ Terms       426    648            557    549    546   546    552            3900  -                       500
Cumulative Adv/Decline                         30.8   29.0  28.3   28.3   29.6            3300                          450
since 12/31/96                                                                          3      000                40    0
LOSO bOS-_STnS_-- -    5  lS



Annex 12
Economic Indicators
Page 8 of 10
MEXICO: MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
1998NtD-MCdf
BAN~CO DEMEXICO:               1996   1991                 Jan 2   Jan9  Jan 16  Jan 23         420       -  -     ----
(billion Pesos) 
C-20    --
Monetary Base                    84    109                   109    102    103      98         Z6
Net Domestic Credit              34    -51                   -55    -63    -63    -72       I 
MONEY SLUPPLY:                 1996   199719 Se    Ot                      Nwv   Dec 
__      ___ -                                                                     Mt
MI (billion Plesos)             233    308                   260    265    278    308            20--------             ---
(Year-on-Year % Change)        40.7   32.5                  37.5   37.8   36.7   32.5    ~       260
8240
M4 (billion Pesos)             1166   1506                  1394   1434   1451   1506          R220       -        -------
(Year-on-Year % Change)        32.5   29.1                   33.3   33.6   32.2   29.1            g
COMMERCIAL BANK CREDIT OUTSTANDING:                                                            __-            -       -
To Privste Sector               511                          472    475    494    504
(billion pesos)
FU     INFLAn.ON                    1996   1997         97:ut    e      Oct    Nv Dec
CPt WW,l.Io. latm  To,-.
CPI                                                                                              3
29       -- - - - - -  - - - - - - -
(Month-on-MontIh Change)                              0.9    1.3    0.8    1.1    1.4            27
(Year-to-Date Change)          27.7  15.72           10.6   12.0   12.9   14.4   15.7            25----           ----------
(L.ast3  Mos, Annualized)                            11.1    12.7j  12.4   14.5    14.1        et23      -----------
21
PPI                                                                                              19       -
(Mon dh-on-MontlsChange)                              0.8    OS9    1.1    1.5    0.4           '7
(Year-to-Date- Change)        25.33  10.64            6.5    7.5    8.7   10.3   10.6            i
(LAst 3 Mos, Annualized)                              8.6   10.6   12.0   14.7   12.2                  --
[I INTERNATIONAL                                                        1998~f
RESERVES                    1996   1997                 Jan 2   Jan9  Jan 16  Jan 23           30
(billionS$)                                                                                      20
Gross mnt Reserves             17.5   28.0                  28.2   28.5   28.3   28.6             3
Net Int Reserves                6.3   19.8                  20.3   20.4   20.3   20.4                                          a
Lii   TRADE                            1996               97:Jan-Dec          97:0cc
YOY           YOY   mom               1.              ,~ 
hS   ache            1,   % Chu   1,   %Chit % Chtt
10.5---
Exports                        96.0   20.7          110.4   15.0    9.9   16.0    2.8                                           1  
Oil                          11.7   38.4           11.3   -2.7    0.8  -30.3  -22.3            '0.0'-'-
Manufacturing                80.3   20.7           94.7   18.0    8.7   23.7    5.6
Maqiuila Exports           36.9   28.7           45.1   22.2    4.1   31.8    1.4
Others                        4.0  -11.4            4.3    6.4    0.4   11.1   10.6          8  .O      .
Imports                        89.5   23.5          109.8   22.7   10.6   32.4    6.5             8.3  I
Consumer Goode                6.7   24.8            9.3   39.9    1.1   50.1     9. 
IntermediateGoods    71.9   23.1            85.4   18.8    7.8   28.5     2.80
Maquuila lImports          30.5   16.5           36.4   19.3    3.3   36.9    2.8 
Capital Goods                10.9   25.6           15.1   38.2    1.7   41.8   25.275
Trade Balance                   6.5                   0.6          -0.72                                 Ecparn      -       p900tI



Annex 12
Economic Indicators
Page 9 of 10
MEXICO: MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS    I
L] BALANCE
OF PAYMENTS          1995   1996         96:111  IV    97:1   1L    III                  Curnt mdCaptAmount
(billion $)                                                                           6 0
14.05
Current Account          -1.6  -1.9          -0.8  -1.5  -0.2  -1.3  -2.5            120
10.0    -     -
Current Account          -0.6  -0.6          -1.0  -1.8  -0.2  -1.3  -2.5             so .
as % of GDP                                                                         6.0     T
20
Capital Account          15.7   3.3           1.2   2.0   1.8   3.1   5.6             00 
of which:                                                                           -20
Direct Foreign Invest   9.8   7.6           1.7   2.7   1.8   3.0   5.2                  g
Change in Reserves       -9.6  -1.8          -0.2  -1.9  -2.5  -1.7  -2.7            3CuatAmount   NCapud Accowm|
(- means an increase)
O FISCAL ACCOUNTS (NON-FINANCAL PUBLIC SECTOR)
1994   1995   1996        96.IV  97:1   if    Ilnl mcA Bamam/GDP
(Year-to-Date, % of GDP)                                 (billion Pesos)             0.1
Budgetary Revenues      22.9  22.9  22.8           185.3  166.4  168.8  166.2        0.0
(Excludes Revenues from Privatization)
Oil Revenues            6.4   8.1   8.7          64.42   65.5  67.5  62.4
Non-Oil Revenue        16.5  14.8  14.1          120.9  101,0  101.2  103.8
40.2- 
Budgetary Expenditures    23.0  22.9  23.0         207.1  154,6  160.8  167.3                _
of which: Interest      2.3   4.6   4.3           45.4  25.6  21.6  26.9
1994     1995       1996
Non-Budgetary Items      0.1   0.0   0.1             2.1   2.8   1.3   1.1
Overall Balance          -0.3   0.0  -0.1          -22.0   9,0   9.3   0.1
[     GROWN                  1994  1995  1996          96:JV   97:1   11    IlI                   G
_  _  _   _     _      _      _                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GDr Roil G,ouh Rote
GDPRealGrowthRate        4.5  -6.2   5.1             7.6   5.1   8.8   8.1           s0
(Percent Change from Previous Year)                                                   6
Consumption             4.4  -8.4   2.5            4.0   2.9   6.3   6.2            4
Investment              9.9  -34.8  27.5          49.4  24.1  33.2  24.0            2
Exports                17.4  33.0  18.7           20.5  18.6  15.3  17.1            2 -
Imports                20.5  -12.8  27.8          35.2  28.7  27.0  23.2           _4
-6
GDP Real Growth Rate                                 1.9   1.1   1.4
(Seasonally Adj Quarterly Growth Rate; Source: INEGI)                                      ____          g__ __ _



Annex 12
Economic Indicators
Page 10 of 10
zMEXICO: MACROECONOMIC INDICATOR.S
E   PRODUCTION
AND  SALES           95:Dec 96:Dec          97:Jul  Aug    ep       ct     ov                 d IdstlrdP irduio   d RO3  Sal. 
(Year-on-Year Change)                                                                       125
20
Industrial Production     -3.6   11.2           10.3    8.1   12.5   10.4    8.6       |     10
Manufacturing           -2.2   11.2           11.2    7.4   13.3   10,8    9.8         o05            ,-
Construction           -12.8   15.0            9.7   11.5   13.1   11.2    6.9       |    95        .2 0  .0
90                            60
Wholesale Sales                    9.2           3.4    5.7    8.3    7.6    4.7                   -
Retail Sales                      -1.9           6.7    9.3    8.7   11.0   10.6       LIndustrial prd. -               R - Retail Sales
EMPLOYMENT                                              F------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- -----
Fg     EMPLO'fMENT                                                                          r --     -    Une-ptoymeot Rate
AND WAGES               1995   1996         97:Aug  Sep    Oct   Nov    Dec
5.0
Unemployment Rate          5.5    4.1            3.5    3.4    3.2    3.3    2.8            50                     -    -
Mfg Employment            -7.5    4.8            5.     5.3    5.3                          4.0
(Year-on-YeaLr Change)                                                                      3.5
Mfg Average Real Wages  -21.6   -5.0             0.3    0.8    2.3                          30_
(Year-on-Year Change)
EXTERNAL DEBT   1994   1995   1996                  96JV   97:1    11    III         VDebt dDbtSeic
70      _05
Total Debt Outstanding    140.0  165.9  157.1                                                          , -                 50
(End-of-Period, billion5)                                                                             .                    43
~~~5s    I ~~~~~40,
MLT Debt                  96.8  112.6  113.8                                                                               35
Private Non-Guaranteed  17.5   18.6   20.3                                               40 40             -    -- -- 30-'3
Public and Plub Guar    79.3   94.0   93.4                                           |         ..           - .        ..  25 5
ST Debt + IMF Credit    43.2   53.3   43.3                                                                                 20
20                              t
IBRD Debt                 13.0   13.8   12.7           12.6   11.7   11.7   11.6
IMF Credit                 3.9   15.8   13.3           13.3   10.3    9.7    9.4       I              DcbtIGDP                 2
U.S. ESF Net Drawings      0.0   12.0    3.5            3.5    0.0    0.0    0.0                      Dch Se-oaeExpm GNFS + CT
DOMESTIC DEBT (NON-FINANCIAL PUBLIC SECTOR)
1994   1995   1996                                           r
I   Dtmuetc Dbt: G.vt S-dties
Estimated Net End-of-Year Stock                                                            250            O ttdlbsL   40
(% of GDP)                13.8    9.8    8.5                                               260                            35
Excludes debt issued for bank                                                              240    - ..    --
and debt support programs                                                                  220 --.-        .              30
mg0   -     -     --    2---
GOVERNMENT DOMESTIC SECURITIES OUTSTANDING:                                              .I       .  ..  .  ....         ..
1994   1995   1996         97:Nov                                                  0 14   - '
140
15
120 -     -       . -    - -
Total (billion Pesos)      264    168    150            263                                 ioo -      _ __ _ _ _          lo
Ajustabonos                 30     41     26             16
Bondes                       8     36      60            83                              r        TOTAL         - tcstDEXrTOT
Cetes                       41     48     59            130                             -     --- -_-             - --    -
Tesobonos                  -30    -53       0             0                             Indexed Debt = Ajustabonos
UDlbonos                     0      0       5            34                                             + Tesobonos + UDlbonos



Annex 13
Status of Bank-Group Operations
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
Statement of Loans/Credits - Schedule D (MOP)
As of March 31,1998 (in millions of US Dollars)
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                            disbursements a/
Project ID   Credit No.    Year                  Borrower                        Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations   Undisbursed        Orig   Fim Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 203
Active Loans
MX-PE-7711    IBRD42760        1998   NAFIN                              RURAL DEV. MARG.AREA              47.00        0.00            0.00         47.00         3.51       0.00
MX-PE-43163   IBRD42060        1997   BANOBRAS                           FEDERAL ROADS MODZTN             475.00        0.00            0.00        475.00         0.00       0.00
MX-PE-7700    IBRD41370        1997   GOVT OF MEXICO                     COMMUNITY FORESTRY                15.00        0.00            0.00         14.50         1.75       0.00
MX-PE-7726    IBRD41520        1997   GOVERNMENT                         AQUACULTURE                       40.00        0.00            0.00         40.00         2.33       0.00
MX-PE-7732    IBRD41010        1997   GOVERNMENT                         RURAL FIN. MKTS T.A.              30.00        0.00            0.00         29.50        14.96       0.00
MX-PE-40685   IBRD39370        1996   NACIONAL FINANCIERA (NAFI          INFRA. PRIVATZTN TA               30.00        0.00            0.00         20.53        18.53       0.00
MX-PE-7689    IBRD39430        1996   NAFIN                              BASIC HLTH II                    310.00        0.00            0.00        245.03        28.02      21.83
MX-PE-7713    IBRD40500        1996   GOM                                WATER RESOURCES MANA             186.50        0.00            0.00        178.38         7.60       0.00
MX-PE-34161   IBRD3838A        1995   NAFINSA                            FINANCIAL SEC T.A.                 5.32        0.00            0.00          2.97         1.58      12.38
MX-PE-34161   IBRD3838B        1995   NAFINSA                            FINANCIAL SEC T.A.                13.80        0.00            0.00         13.80         1.58      12.38
MX-PE-34490   IBRD3805A        1995   NAFIN                              TECH EDU/TRAING                  187.49        0.00            0.00        179.95       121.47      60.27
MX-PE-40462   IBRD39120        1995   NAFIN                              ESSENTIAL SOCIAL SER             500.00        0.00            0.00         18.29        18.30      18.30
MX-PE-7607    IBRD3778A        1995   GOVERNMENT                         RAINFED AREAS DEVELO              41.96        0.00            0.00         21.85         3.82      -9.45
MX-PE-7702    IBRD3790A        1995   SEDESOL                            SECOND DECENTRALZTN              303.39        0.00            0.00        233.49       129.54      46.11
MX-PE-7612    IBRD37520        1994   BANOBRAS                           SOLID WASTE II                   200.00        0.00          193.06           1.71       -4.23       0.00
MX-PE-7701    IBRD3704A        1994   NAFIN                              ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI             119.36        0.00            0.00        111.10        86.08       1.09
MX-PE-7707    IBRD37510        1994   BANOBRAS                           WATER/SANIT II                   350.00        0.00            0.00        181.56       166.54       0.00
MX-PE-7710    IBRD37500        1994   BANOBRAS                           N. BORDER I ENVIRONM             368.00        0.00          273.40         65.36       259.06      22.38
MX-PE-7725    IBRD3722A        1994   NAFIN                              PRIM.EDUC.II                     254.36        0.00            0.00        214.81       184.83       6.15
MX-PE-7648    IBRD35590        1993   BANOBRAS                           MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP             200.00        0.00           23.00        137.78       122.71       0.00
MX-PE-7694    IBRD3543A        1993   NAFIN                              TRNSPRT AIR POLL CON              79.96        0.00            0.00         79.96       123.08      35.00
MX-PE-7723    IBRD36280        1993   BANOBRAS                           HWY RHB & SAFETY                 480.00        0.00            0.00        200.67         8.67       0.00
MX-PE-7724    IBRD3542A        1993   NAFIN                              LABOR MARKET & PROD.              11.25        0.00            0.00           3.93        3.94       0.00
MX-PE-7667    IBRD3419A        1992   NAFINSA                            IRRIG SCTR                       100.63        0.00            0.00        100.63       150.60        .60
MX-PE-7676    IBRD3475A        1992   NAFIN                              SCIENCE/TECH                       6.50        0.00            0.00           3.36        2.36       2.36
MX-PE-7672    IBRD3359A        1991   NAFIN                              MINING SCTR                       41.51        0.00            0.00         41.05        41.06       0.00
MX-PE-7704    IBRD3358A        1991   NAFIN                              VOC TRNG SCTR                     18.99        0.00            0.00         17.01        32.03      17.03
MX-PE-7615    IBRD28240        1987   BANOBRAS                           URBN TRNSPRT I                   125.00        0.00           34.02           2.04       41.01       1.99
Total                                                                                                  4,541.02         0.00          523.48      2,681.26   1,570.73    248.42
Active Loans         Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (1BRD and IDA):                1,336.33           21,008.59           22,344.92
of which has been repaid:                  60.24           10,847.64           10,907.88
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                3,957.47           10,185.05           14,142.52
Amount sold                      :                 0.00               92.34                92.34
Of which repaid               :                 0.00               92.34               92.34
Total Undisbursed                :             2,681.26               27.26            2,708.52
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisf-actory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex 13
Status of Bank-Group Operations
Page 2 of 2
MEXICO
Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of March 31,1998 (in millions of US Dollars)
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval             Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1984/87/94/96           Metalsa                   0.00    0.00     6.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    6.00     0.00
1987                    VULICA                    7.50    0.00     0.00    0.00     7.50    0.00     0.00     0.00
1987/91                 CALICA                    4.79    0.00     0.00    0.00     4.79    0.00     0.00     0.00
1988/91/92/93/95        Apasco                   22.20    0.00     0.00   102.80    22.20   0.00     0.00   102.80
1988/94/95              Sigma                    0.00     5.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    5.00     0.00     0.00
1989                    Cemex                    1.86     0.00     0.00    1.00     1.86     0.00    0.00     1.00
1989                    Grupo FEMSA              0.00     9.43     0.00    0.00     0.00     9.43    0.00     0.00
1989/90                 Banca Serfin            16.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    16.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1990                    Petrocel                 6.50     0.00     3.00    3.50     6.50    0.00     3.00     3.50
1990/91                Condumex                   7.76    0.00     0.00    3.18     7.76    0.00     0.00     3.18
1990/92/96              BANAMEX                  62.61    0.00     0.00    98.07    60.21   0.00     0.00    98.07
1991                    CEDETEL                   3.13     .77     0.00    6.09     .63      .77     0.00     6.09
1991                    Vitro Flotado            13.22    0.00     0.00    5.53    13.22    0.00     0.00     5.53
1991/96                 GIBSA                    27.05    0.00    10.00    90.95    27.05   0.00    10.00    90.95
1992                    Banorte-Arancia          4.17     0.00     0.00    0.00     4.17    0.00     0.00     0.00
1992                    Banorte-SABROZA          3.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     3.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1992                    Toluca Toll Road          8.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     8.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
1992/91                 Vitro                     0.00    10.17    0.00    0.00     0.00    10.17    0.00     0.00
1992/93/95/96           Grupo Posadas            25.66    5.00     5.00    46.57    25.66   5.00     5.00    46.57
1992/96/97/98           Grupo Probursa           0.00    10.16     .21     0.00     0.00    10.11     .21     0.00
1993                    Derivados                 7.70    0.00     0.00    15.05    7.70     0.00    0.00    15.05
1993                    GIDESA                   12.50    8.00     0.00    25.50    12.50    8.00    0.00    25.50
1993                    GOTM                     1.40     0.00     0.00    1.32     1.40    0.00     0.00     1.32
1993                    Masterpak                8.40     0.00     0.00    16.20    8.40    0.00     0.00    16.20
1994                    CTAPV                    4.67     0.00     2.53    0.00     4.67    0.00     2.53     0.00
1994                   Interceramic             13.00     0.00     6.00    12.25    13.00   0.00     6.00    12.25
1994/96/98              Aurum-Heller             0.00     2.80     0.00    0.00     0.00    2.80     0.00     0.00
1995                    Baring Venture           0.00     9.09     0.00    0.00     0.00    5.00     0.00     0.00
1995                    Mexplus Puertos          0.00     3.04     0.00    0.00     0.00    3.04     0.00     0.00
1995/96                 Barimg Mex. FMC          0.00      .18     0.00    0.00     0.00     .17     0.00     0.00
1996                    GIRSA                    30.00    0.00    10.00   115.00    7.50     0.00    2.50    85.00
1996                   NEMAK                     0.00     0.00     6.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     6.00     0.00
1997                   Banco Bilbao MXC         80.00     0.00    30.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    30.00     0.00
1997                   Comercializadora          6.00     0.00     0.00    7.50     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                   Gen. Hipotecaria          0.00     1.43     0.00    0.00     0.00    1.43     0.00     0.00
1997                   Grupo Minsa              20.00    10.00     0.00    30.00    20.00    10.00   0.00    30.00
1997                   TMA                       5.10     0.00     0.00    10.40    5.10    0.00     0.00    10.40
1998                    Grupo Calidra           12.00     6.00     0.00    10.00    0.00    6.00     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:                    414.22    81.07    78.74   600.91   288.82    76.92    71.24   553.41
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equitv   Quasi   Partic
1997                    ALTAMIRA                 17.80    0.00     1.00    38.00
1997                    CHIAPAS FMC               0.00     .02     0.00    0.00
1997                    FONDO CHIAPAS            0.00     5.00     0.00    0.00
1998                    FORJA QUIMMCO            13.00    3.00     0.00    13.00
1998                    HIPOTECARIA EQ           0.00     1.20     0.00    0.00
1998                    MERIDA III              30.00     0.00     0.00    90.00
1998                    ZN MEX FMC                0.00     .05     0.00    0.00
1998                    ZN MXC EQTY FUND          0.00    20.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Conumitment            60.80    29.27    1.00   141.00



