Page  1
February 18, 1998
Dr. Carlos García Moreno
Director General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826 (Piso 9)
Colonia del Valle
03100 México, D.F.
México
            Re:
Japanese Grant for the Health Care Reform Project
Grant No. TF 25495
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to indicate 
the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not 
exceeding nine hundred eighty-nine thousand two hundred US Dollars (US$989,200) (the Grant) to the United 
Mexican States (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the purposes and 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its 
request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and 
represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, and 
returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter 
Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By____________________
Olivier Lafourcade
Director and Resident Representative
AGREED:
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By_____________________
Dr. Carlos García Moreno
Director General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Date:March 15, 1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to provide financing to assist in the preparation by the Recipient of 
Page  2
the reforms proposed to be supported by the potential Health Care Reform Loan (the Loan).  The 
technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
Health Sector Policy Reforms and Regulatory Development
(i)
Carrying out of the following studies for purposes of defining the policy framework 
proposed to be supported by the Loan:
(A)
A study to develop a projections model to facilitate the evaluation of the effects of 
different factual scenarios on health sector service coverage, use of services, quality of 
services and on the public financing of such services, as well as to facilitate the 
evaluation of alternative scenarios for opting out of public financing of health services 
and for subcontracting of such services;
(B)
A study to design the policy improvements proposed to be supported by the Loan (with 
regard to, for example, basic service packages, models for IMSS (
Instituto Mexicano de 
Seguridad Social
)
resource allocation and cost accounting, contractual arrangements 
between service providers and financiers and the design of indicators to measure 
quality); and
(C)
A study to design the regulatory framework proposed to be supported by the Loan.
(ii)
Carrying out of a seminar to discuss health sector policy reforms and regulatory 
development.
(iii)
Carrying out of study tours for IMSS managers and clinicians, accompanied by a health 
sector reform consultant, to expose such IMSS personnel to health sector reform initiatives in Europe.
(b)
IMSS Management and Service Delivery Strengthening
(i)
Design of selection criteria and minimum standards to be used by IMSS in managing an 
investment fund for the improvement of health sector service facilities, such criteria and standards to 
require service reforms as a condition for financing new equipment or infrastructure rehabilitation;
(ii)
Carrying out an evaluation, and proposing a reorientation, of the existing health care 
model in two Mexican states, first by analyzing existing innovations in health care management and 
service delivery, and then by preparing proposals for change based on experiences in Mexico and 
elsewhere;
(iii)
Determination of the training needs of IMSS facility managers and clinicians, 
Page  3
(iii)
Determination of the training needs of IMSS facility managers and clinicians, 
development of basic courses to introduce a client-oriented culture to IMSS and elaboration of a strategic 
short- and medium-term training plan to prepare IMSS staff for proposed sector reforms; and
(iv)
Carrying out of a study on hospital procedures associated with ambulatory and home 
care services (including calculation of the necessary investments required to shift health care towards an 
ambulatory care model). 
(c)
IMSS Institutional Strengthening
(i)
Design of a high-level strategy for IMSS organizational change so it may become a more 
flexible, client-oriented institution organized according to main product lines and business processes;
(ii)
Preparation of a strategic corporate plan to modernize IMSS information systems 
(including an action plan for ensuring the development of integrated systems and high-level data 
modeling);
(iii)
Preparation of guidelines for technology assessment (including a rapid assessment of the 
current situation in IMSS regarding medical equipment, cost-effectiveness criteria for technology 
investment and a strategic action plan for technology reform implementation);
(iv)
Carrying out of a workshop to discuss technology assessment, with a focus on making 
recommendations regarding cost-effectiveness criteria for technology investments; and
(v)
Carrying out of study tours for five IMSS officials, accompanied by a health sector 
management consultant, to expose such officials to health sector management reform initiatives outside 
of Mexico.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient shall cooperate 
with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and 
effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against 
any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external 
consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by June 30, 1999.  After that date, the Bank 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
Page  4
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank (in consultation with the 
Recipient’s 
Oficina de Asesores de la Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
)
and shall be done 
according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the United Mexican States on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals 
or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation 
with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of 
the following events has occurred and is continuing:  (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the 
Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan 
agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International Development 
Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not 
expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
