Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4364-ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Health System Reform Sector Adjustment Loan)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 14, 1998 
LOAN NUMBER 4364-ME 
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1998, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 20, 1998 from the Guarantor 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
restructuring and development of the Guarantor’s health insurance and service delivery 
system (the Program), declaring the Guarantor’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided, in 
support of the Program, to provide such assistance to the Guarantor by making a loan 
in an amount equal to seven hundred million Dollars ($700,000,000) to Banco Nacional 
de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. (the Borrower), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the Borrower, 
but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the 
Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake other obligations as provided in 
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower and to undertake such other obligations as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the 
Loan Agreement (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Guarantee; Transfer of Loan Proceeds 
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as 
primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the 
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on 
the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other obligations 
of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual arrangements with 
the Borrower referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement and, unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of such 
contractual arrangements. 
ARTICLE III 
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Guarantor shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Guarantor shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement. 
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Guarantor shall, during the month of March 1999 or on a later date if requested by 
the Bank, participate with the Bank and the Borrower in an in-depth mid-term review of 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in 
Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV 
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses 
Section 4.01. The Director General de Crédito Público of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Page  3
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9
03100 México, D.F.
México
Telex:
1777313-SHOCME
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Jesús Reyes Heroles
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
