Page  1
September 26, 2000
Mr. Carlos García Moreno 
Director General de Crédito Público 
Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Av. Insurgentes Sur No. 826 – 9o. Piso 
Col. Del Valle 
Mexico, D.F. 03100
Re: 
Japanese Grant for the Social Sector Reform Project.  Grant No. 
TF029530 
Amendment to the Grant Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Grant Agreement  between the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the United Mexican States (the 
Recipient), dated April 10, 1997 (the Agreement).  We are pleased to inform you that, 
pursuant to your request and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank hereby 
agrees to amend the Agreement as follows:
1.
Paragraph 1. The first paragraph is hereby amended and replaced to read in its 
entirety as follows:
“The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant 
is given 
are designated to contribute towards the preparation of the Social Sector 
Reform Projects in 
basic public education, health, nutrition, finance, and secondary 
and technical education 
sectors (the Proposed Project).  The activities (the 
Activities) for which the Grant is 
given are as follows:”
2.
Paragraph 4. is hereby amended and replaced to read as follows in its entirety: 
“4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 
31, 2000.  
After that date the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of 
the Grant.” 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
both originals of this letter in the spaces provided below, and returning one to us.  
The provisions set forth in this amendment letter shall enter into effect as of the 
date of this letter upon receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by 
you. 
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adolfo Brizzi 
Acting Director 
Mexico Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Carlos García-Moreno  
Director-General of Public Credit
Date:
September 27, 2000
Page  2
