                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26236

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-43640)

                                                 ON AN

                                         ADJUSTMENT LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$700 MILLION

                   TO THE BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS, S.N.C.
                   WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES




                          FOR HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM-IMSS PROJECT




                                              June 27, 2003




Country Management Unit for
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective )

                            Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                                  US$ 1 = 10.01 Peso

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AMGD          Medical Area of Decentralized Management (Area Médica de Gestión
              Decentralizada)
BANOBRAS      BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS, S.N.C.
C.U.R.P.      Population Unique Registration Identity Card (Cédula Unica de Registro
              de Población)
CANADE        Beneficiaries Database (Cátalogo Nacional de Derechohabientes)
CF            Complementary Investment Fund
DRG           Diagnostic Related Group
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDF           Innovative Development Fund
IMSS          Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social
MOF           Ministry of Finance
NMMF          New Model for Family Medicine
PCU           Project Coordinating Unit
PHC           Primary Health Care
SIAREFI       Sistema de Afiliación, Recaudación y Fiscalización
SHCP          Ministry of Finance (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico)
SSA           Mexican Secretary of Health
SSHF          Social Security Health Fund
UMF           Family Medicine Units (Unidades de Medicina Familiar)
UMAES         Specialized Medical Units (Unidades Medicas Especializadas)
UNAM          Autonomous University of Mexico (Universidad Autónoma de México)


                          Vice President:   David de Ferranti
                        Country Director    Isabel Guerrero
                         Sector Manager     Ana-Maria Arriagada
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Maria Luisa Escobar

                                           MEXICO
                         MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM - SAL


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            40
Annex 8. Supporting Data and Table                                               43

Project ID: P007720                                                      Project Name: MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM -
                                                                         SAL
Team Leader: Maria-Luisa Escobar                                         TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM - SAL                           L/C/TF Number: SCL-43640
   Country/Department: MEXICO                                                             Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (79%); Health insurance (21%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Administrative and civil service
                            reform (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    01/20/1998                                        Effective: 12/14/1998              11/25/1998
   Appraisal:    01/15/1998                                            MTR: 01/15/2000                05/17/2000
    Approval:    06/30/1998                                         Closing: 06/30/2000               09/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          BANOBRAS/IMSS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director:                Ana-Maria Arriagada                            Xavier Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Maria-Luisa Escobar                            Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine
ICR Primary Author:             James Cercone; Maria Luisa
                                Escobar


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:H

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The stated objective of the Health System Reform Project (Loan No. 4364) was to support the
Government's effort to modernize the Instituto Mexicano de Seguridad Social (IMSS) in order to
improve efficiency, equity and quality of medical services provided. IMSS is Mexico's largest
health care payor and provider, providing care to over 45 million people throughout the country.
The project proposed five areas of action to achieve these objectives: 1) changing the IMSS
corporate structure and decentralizing management responsibility and accountability; 2) separating
financing from provision of services; 3) strengthening the IMSS health care delivery network; 4)
developing efficient purchasing mechanisms; and, 5) increasing user choice and extending
voluntary affiliation to the IMSS. Once the above actions had been accomplished with the
project's support, the long run vision was to include other institutions that manage compulsory
contributions for health in the reform process and promote universal health insurance.

The project's objectives were consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy for Mexico,
discussed at the Board in December 1996, that aimed to ensure growth, macroeconomic stability,
social development and the modernization of the state. Additionally, the project addressed directly
three of the five actions for the health sector identified in the CAS: 1) establishing a financially
viable health insurance system under the new Social Security Law; 2) increasing the role of the
private sector in the delivery of health services; and, 3) decentralizing more responsibilities to the
sub-national levels under an equitable system of federal transfers. The project was supported by
technical assistance under a parallel Health Reform Technical Assistance Project (Loan No. 4367)
that supported the development of the regulatory and institutional framework.

The project also aimed to provide immediate support to the Federal budget to facilitate the
transition from payroll tax financing to general revenue financing as foreseen by the Social
Security Law of 1997 and amendments in 2001. The new law: i) introduced changes in the IMSS
administration, its responsibilities, patrimony and government; ii) established IMSS as an
autonomous fiscal entity; iii) improved IMSS reserves and strengthened Seguro de la Familia.
These changes were critical to ensure the financial sustainability of the IMSS and to allow IMSS
to modernize its centralized and bureaucratic structure. The change in financing had a major
fiscal impact as the resulting short-term obligations of the Government to IMSS for health
insurance financing were estimated in 1998 at US$2.2 billion. Furthermore, the costs of
increasing coverage among self-employed and informal sector workers (Seguro de Familia) was
estimated to be at least $80 million annually. The loan was intended to give financial support to
the Government to meet these increased costs.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project's development objective was not revised during project implementation.




                                                  - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:

Component I. Health Finance and Regulatory Framework. This component aimed to
develop and implement the health insurance financing reforms and the respective regulatory
framework through three subcomponents: (i) establishment of the Social Security Health Fund
(SSHF); (ii) increase user choice of providers and extension of coverage; and (iii) development of
purchasing mechanisms.

The establishment of the SSHF was seen as the main mechanism to introduce the separation of
functions between the financing and delivery of health care services within the IMSS and to lay
the foundation for risk pooling under a (eventual) single financing system. The SSHF was
intended to sign management contracts with health care providers; to set the framework for
increased user choice and competition among providers, and to create a beneficiary database and
establish the Innovative Development Fund (IDF) (see component II). During the first phase of
the reform, the SSHF was to assume the supervisory function of the regulation of the health care
market. Over the medium-term, a strengthened supervisory body, acting independently of all
agents, was required to authorize the existence of Managed Care Organizations (MCOs), establish
regulations, and supervise compliance by all agents in order to have a functioning system of
managed competition.

In order to foster efficiency and quality in the provision of health care services, user choice was to
be increased by allowing selection (i) of family doctors within a given Medical Area Unit, and (ii)
of IMSS Medical Area Units and private or public MCOs. In the medium term, user choice was
to be extended to include selection of Specialty Hospitals by the budget-holding Medical Area
Units that purchase tertiary level care. For user choice to have the intended effects, regulations to
define minimum quality and quantity of services to be provided, limit risk selection, protect user's
rights, and regulate financial standards and penalties for non-compliance for IMSS and MCO
service providers were to be established. To increase equity among users, coverage was to be
extended to self-employed and informal sector workers by offering a publicly-subsidized insurance
system through IMSS.

To properly link the SSHF and medical providers, resource allocation had to be reformed by
developing efficient purchasing instruments. For this purpose, subcomponent (iii) was aimed at
introducing management contracts between IMSS and Medical Area Units and between IMSS
and Specialty Hospitals. The former contracts were intended to gradually introduce a
risk-adjusted capitation mechanism and incentives to reward improved service delivery
performance. In contrast, management contracts with Specialty Hospitals were to allocate
resources through a diagnosis-related mechanism (DRGs). DRGs were also expected to be used
for internal management.

Component II. Institutional Strengthening of IMSS This component supported a reform of
IMSS through two subcomponents: (i) changing the IMSS corporate structure; and (ii)
strengthening its health care delivery network.



                                                 - 3 -

To complement the separation of financing and provision of services within IMSS, subcomponent
(i) was aimed at reforming its corporate structure, emphasizing the decentralization of IMSS
administration to improve efficiency and responsiveness to the health needs of the population.
IMSS was to: (a) transfer decision-making to the most appropriate decentralized level; (b) ensure
transparency in the allocation of resources to the decision-making units; and (c) provide the
decentralized authorities with adequate institutional capacity to perform budgeting procedures,
and manage treasury systems and internal control systems. The restructuring was also intended to
grant greater autonomy for and competition between Medical Area Units.

The strengthening of the health delivery network, envisioned under subcomponent (ii), was
intended to support Medical Area Units and Specialty Hospitals to improve their delivery
capacity, and quality and cost-efficiency of their services through several measures. First,
financial support was to be given to develop the Medical Area Units into autonomous,
self-managed, integrated health delivery units. Second, additional investments were to be
conducted to improve medical equipment and information systems. Third, operational changes
were to (a) better manage patient flows; (b) increase use of outpatient services; and (d) develop
more effective referral and counter-referral systems between levels of care.

Financial support was to be provided through an Innovative Development Fund (IDF) that would
increase capital investment in equipment and maintenance. Investments were aimed at replacing
obsolete medical equipment and technology, improving management and organization, and
allowing health facilities to adjust their production capacity in an evolving competitive market.
The start-up capital of IDF was set at $200 million, and replenishment in subsequent years was to
be based on IMSS budgetary capacity and execution of the investment program.

To further improve quality of service two additional measures were to be implemented. First, a
quality assurance plan issued by a Quality Assurance Board operating within IMSS was to be
executed to improve quality of health care services. Second, actions were to be taken to improve
accountability towards the beneficiaries, including the establishment of a consumer advisory board
at the national level, the use of client satisfaction surveys, and the introduction of beneficiary
representatives to act as formal liaisons between IMSS and patients.
3.4 Revised Components:

Following a review of compliance with the second tranche conditionality, a loan amendment was
approved in November 8, 2001 to separate the second tranche of US$350 million into two
tranches, a second tranche of US$200 million and a third tranche of US$150 million, and to
extend the project's closing date to provide IMSS with additional time to achieve the
development objectives given delays as a result of the 2000 elections and policy decisions
regarding the introduction of competition in IMSS financing and provision.

Later, in April of 2002 following the review of the third tranche conditionality, both the Bank and
the IMSS agreed that changes in the reform strategy made it impossible for the Government to
comply with conditionality on the competitive elements of the reform within the project's
timeframe. A partial disbursement was found as the best alternative, recognizing the immense and
successful effort in the part of IMSS with the implementation of many other aspects of the



                                                    - 4 -

reform. An amendment to the Loan Agreement was approved in September, 2002, releasing a
reduced (US$75 million) third tranche. This reduced the total loan amount from US$700 million
to US$625 million.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Satisfactory. The operational package (SECAL and TAL) supporting the overall reform process
was subject to the quality assurance at entry process and received a rating of "2". The Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) Review Committee found the project to be highly consistent with the
CAS assistance strategy and with the findings of previous economic and sector work.
Observations regarding quality at entry of the SECAL were related to the scope of the reform
package proposed. In particular, the QAG report indicated concern "whether the extent of the
reforms being supported is commensurate with the size of this very large, $700 million,
policy-based loan". "The reforms included as conditionalities for the first and second tranche
release of the proposed adjustment operation may not necessarily carry the reform very far in this
direction". "The apparent weakness of the loan conditionality raises questions about the
appropriateness of a policy-based loan of this size, with two tranches and very limited action
up-front". The QAG was particularly concerned about the weakness of the conditionality on the
introduction of market mechanisms in the IMSS, such as opting-out and choice of provider and
noted that conditions regarding these areas of the reform were softened during negotiations.
Notably, those conditions although weakened during negotiations were precisely the hardest
conditions for IMSS to comply with. The Bank and IMSS preparation teams worked diligently
during project preparation to ensure that all technical issues were clear and agreed and that
preliminary actions were taken by the government to demonstrate sufficient buy-in and ownership
over the reform process. Extensive work was carried out to link the TAL and SECAL actions,
through a policy matrix, and to ensure the highest level of consistency between the overall
objectives and the actions that were taken under the project.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project made significant contributions to the achievement of the overall IMSS reform
objectives and received the appropriate support from the inputs provided by the TAL to achieve
its development objectives. Measured in terms of the achievement of overall project outcomes,
the result has been satisfactory. The three overall reform goals to be supported by the SECAL
were to: 1) improve the financial management of the health insurance system to ensure financial
transparency, introduce new resource allocation mechanisms, and limit the fiscal impact of the
proposed reforms; 2) strengthen the institutional and regulatory framework for health insurance to
extend coverage to the self-employed and informal sector workers, ensure greater transparency
and accountability among providers, develop measures for quality assurance and consumer rights,
and promote consumer choice; and 3) improve the quality and efficiency of the IMSS health
delivery system by supporting the decentralization of decision-making, restructuring of the health
care delivery network around a population-based system, and the introduction of
performance-based incentives for providers. In each of these three areas, important progress is
evident.



                                                 - 5 -

The most notable change that was supported by the project was the shift in the previous focus of
investing in capital intensive projects, mainly new facilities, to a focus on modernizing the IMSS
health system. Many interviewees cited the strong impact the project had in changing the
organizational culture from an output based environment--how many hospitals and how much
equipment--to a performance based culture with the focus on outcomes and modernization.

During project implementation, IMSS made important advances in terms of decentralizing budget
preparation and management and procurement functions. Prior to the project, IMSS was entirely
centralized and functioned under heavily politicized criteria for resource allocation. The project
was an important element to shift to a more performance-based framework, including the
introduction of increasing focus on equity, efficiency and quality. With respect to improvements
in financial management, the change in focus is evident from efforts to introduce the Innovative
Development Fund to generate a demand-based, competitive mechanism to allocate investment
projects; to introduce technology evaluation and carry out a comprehensive review of the existing
equipment; and to separate financing from provision through the introduction of
performance-based contracts with decentralized providers. The combined efforts taken under the
project led to visible changes in the way funds are managed and to an increasing emphasis on
value-for-money in the use of public funds.

The expectations of broader reforms as initially intended in the SECAL project were only partially
met, thereby limiting the overall project outcome rating. Section 4.2 documents the key project
outputs with respect to each of the SECAL components.

4.2 Outputs by components:

As a sectoral adjustment operation, the project outcomes consist of the achievement of the loan
conditionality included in the policy matrix. The policy matrix detailed three main policy areas,
hereinafter referred to as "components", which focus on: (i) meeting overall loan requirements;
(ii) health finance and the regulatory framework; and (iii) institutional strengthening of IMSS.
Within each of these areas, a number of key policy changes were defined. The first area,
maintenance of general loan conditionality, was fully met. Throughout the execution of the loan,
the government maintained appropriate reporting and was fully compliant with the loan legal
covenants. Therefore, this section concentrates on reviewing the progress in achieving the main
objectives under each policy goal in policy areas (ii) and (iii). The detailed matrix is provided in
Annex 1.

Component 2: Health Finance and Regulatory Framework

Following the approval of the changes to the Social Security law in 1997, IMSS was facing three
major challenges: to ensure IMSS financial sustainability by instituting changes in financial
management and its reserve policy; to promote greater decentralization and more
cost-effectiveness in the provider network; and, to increase access and efficiency in the health
insurance fund. To respond to these challenges, the Government, with the support of the
SECAL, proposed to make several significant changes in the health finance and regulatory
framework. The first set of changes was focused on establishing the Social Security Health Fund
(SSHF) within IMSS that would improve the transparent management of health insurance funds



                                                 - 6 -

and could eventually develop into a single-payer purchasing organization for the public sector.
The second area was through increasing user choice and extending coverage of voluntary
affiliation insurance within IMSS (opting-out and opting-in) to promote competition and extend
access to the informal sector and the voluntarily-insured population. The third area was the
development of purchasing mechanisms to focus resources on the population's needs (increasing
equity) and to improve resource allocation. The SECAL achieved satisfactory performance
overall under this component as two of the three areas made considerable progress.

These areas were included in the SECAL as conditionalities within Component 2 of the project.
Their compliance is summarized below.

a. Implementation of the SSHF. Accomplished. As a condition of Board presentation, the
SSHF was approved by the Consejo Técnico of IMSS, via approval of operational guidelines
according to the following principles: contributing to risk pooling; limiting adverse selection and
incorporating catastrophic risks; promoting competition and user choice through subcontracting
and opting-out; developing contractual and financing mechanisms that facilitate the development
of an internal market at IMSS; maintaining the independent supervision capacity of the health
system; and, developing a framework for investment through the Investment Development Fund
(IDF). Prior to Board presentation, the Bank was provided with a draft agreement between the
Ministry of Finance (SHCP) and IMSS regarding the regulatory and institutional framework for
the management of IMSS reserves, with specific emphasis on the financing of health insurance
reserves, management of outstanding liabilities and the IDF. Interviewees cite the SSHF as an
important change in terms of planning and communication between the IMSS directorates. The
SSHF continues to function to date.

The second tranche conditions for this area of Component 2 were fully accomplished as the
SSHF continued to function throughout the life of the project. Moreover, the development of a
long-term financing agreement between SHCP and IMSS and the integration of a joint budget
management committee provided greater transparency in the policymaking and budgeting process.
The Innovative Development and the Complementary Funds were established and provided an
important increase in the level of investment and equipment. As shown in Table 1, Annex 8
between 1999 and 2001, more than $300 million was invested in equipment and maintenance. In
addition, a total of US$22 million in medical equipment was financed through the Complementary
Fund for 2001. Cost-effectiveness criteria were used in the selection of medical equipment.

The final element of the conditionality for this component was only partially accomplished. The
development and implementation of the CANADE, beneficiaries database, was designed but not
fully implemented due to the significant expansion in the scope of CANADE to include
collections, auditing, and payment of socioeconomic benefits through the new SIAREFI System.
As a result of these expanded functions, implementation is expected to last through 2004 and the
cost is now estimated at more than ten times the appraisal estimate in the TAL. IMSS' continued
willingness to finance the shortfall is a demonstration of its commitment to this project and to the
process of strengthening its financial administration. The failure to correctly estimate the cost and
complexity of implementation is mirrored by the recent experience in the Costa Rica health sector
reform project.

b. Increasing user choice and extending coverage of voluntary affiliation insurance within
IMSS (opting-out and opting-in). Conditionality in this area of the reform was not


                                                 - 7 -

accomplished. This was the most politically difficult aspect of the reforms. IMSS was unable to
overcome the political constraints to: i) the introduction of competition in the insurance market;
ii) the increased use of the private sector; and, iii) promotion of user choice as a means to instill
efficiency in the system. With regard to opting-out, there was strong political opposition to
increasing the number of people that could choose their health insurance company, or managed
care organization (MCO). As a result, IMSS is not expected to transfer risk to private or public
entities in the near future. Institutional priorities have been set to first reform the provider market
and to introduce competition between public insurers and then to gradually introduce private
competition. Nonetheless, those companies who had chosen private managed care insurance
coverage as of December 2001 under the opting-out scheme continue to have the right to choose
an alternative non-IMSS insurance provider. Improvements were made to the regulations and
contracts that govern this procedure. Furthermore, Article 89 of Social Security Law revised and
approved by National Congress in December 20, 2001, provides for collaboration agreements
among IMSS and other public health service providers. Important progress was made in
improving the regulatory framework. In 1999, the Ley General de Instituciones de Seguros y
Sociedades Mutualistas was approved providing the regulatory framework for the private sector
managed care market. This establishes the framework to introduce regulation to the insurance
market through the Comisión Nacional de de Seguros y Fianzas; while the Ministry of Health,
Secretaría de Salud (SSA) regulates quality and service provider standards. In addition, private
insurance policies were made tax deductible to promote the development of the private insurance
market. Within the SECAL framework, IMSS carried out some actions in order to simplify the
regulation for contracting out clinical services in order to facilitate implementation and
monitoring. IMSS created the "Comité Institucional de Suborgación de Servicios de Atención a
la Salud" which developed a "Reglamento para la prestación indirecta de servicios parciales de
atención a la salud". The presentation of these regulations to the Bank served as a basis for
conditionality compliance for the first tranche release.

The process regarding opting-in achieved the numeric targets established under the loan by
including an additional 200,000 people in the voluntary insurance programs, but then the IMSS
limited access to these programs due to financial limitations and the slow introduction of the
CANADE system.

The process of introducing greater user choice in the system experienced limited success. The
target of introducing free choice of the primary physician in 30 AMGD was only partially met.
Extensive efforts were made to pilot test a Family Medicine Improvement Process, that allows
selection of physicians at the level of UMF, in 8 UMFs in 8 states (Baja California, Colima,
Durango, Mexico DF, Edomex, Nuevo León, Oaxaca and Yucatán). Following pilot testing, it
was determined that the financial cost of introducing capitated incentives for physicians would be
prohibitive. Labor unions opposed the model as it exposed variations in productivity and did not
provide equal benefits to all workers in the health service delivery team.

c. Introducing purchasing mechanisms. The final conditionality regarding health finance and
regulation related to the introduction of purchasing mechanisms, including the establishment of
management contracts with AMGDs was accomplished. The management agreements were to
have included budgeting, performance assessment, and evaluation activities as well as the
introduction of alternative provider reimbursement mechanisms such as capitation for PHC and



                                                   - 8 -

DRGs for hospital reimbursement. In this regard, the IMSS fully met expectations. The IMSS
established a clear contracting framework with the AMGDs and signed 37 contracts by year 2000.
Contracts were also signed with UMAE in accordance with the target. The new administration
has restructured the AMGD model and as a consequence the purchasing model is also under
review. The purchasing arrangements were accompanied by important changes in resource
allocation. First, extensive use of capitation was introduced as the main mechanism to allocate
resources to delegations and to AMGDs. This reversed the historical budgeting patterns and
targeted resources more closely to the population's needs. IMSS has not made progress
implementing capitated payment to General Practitioners (GPs). Commitment remains high but
progress is unlikely in the next 12 months due to high cost of proposals including labor union
requirements for additional incentives to other providers. At the same time, DRGs were
implemented in 185 hospitals (exceeding the initial target of 15 hospitals). While DRGs have not
yet been used as a payment mechanism, IMSS has designed the models to introduce case-mix
adjusted payment and has carried out budgeting simulations.

Component 3: Institutional strengthening

This component aimed to foment changes in the organizational and functional structure of IMSS
with regard to the decentralization process and to invest in the equipment needed to offer a higher
level of service and to expand access. The following paragraphs summarize the results.

a. Corporate Restructuring and management decentralization of IMSS Health Care
System . The objective of implementing a corporate restructuring was accomplished. During
project implementation, IMSS decentralized many administrative and financial functions to the
regional and local (delegaciones) level. These changes generated profound improvements in the
institution's overall efficiency. For example, purchasing of drugs and supplies was decentralized
from the central level to the regional and local (delegaciones) level. To support these changes,
technical assistance was provided under the TAL to develop a comprehensive corporate
restructuring plan to support functional changes. At the provider level of AMGDs, IMSS made
significant advances in the strengthening of the network of services in the medical area.
Implementation was undertaken in 6 pilot AMGDs where instruments were developed to
strengthen the medical areas, such as organizational changes, process design, clinical protocols,
and regulations. Within the 6 pilot AMGDs, personnel, at all administrative levels, were trained
and participated in the creation of therapeutic guidelines for care of common medical conditions.

b. Strengthening the IMSS health care delivery network. The expectations regarding
strengthening of the delivery network were generally accomplished. The investment targets
under the IDF and the CF were fully met and important changes were introduced in the allocation
of investment funds. Limited progress was made in consolidating a new model for delivery of care
but many changes were introduced to improve the quality of health care delivery services in the
six pilot AMGD zones. More limited progress was made at the level of specialized, tertiary or
quaternary care facilities. A national board for quality assurance was established to oversee the
protection of patient's rights. Extensive exit polls to measure user satisfaction were also
instituted under the project.

c. Investment in technical assistance. Accomplished. The proposed investments in technical
assistance were accomplished in support of the SECAL targets. The technical assistance provided


                                                 - 9 -

the design of key elements required by the SECAL for fulfillment of the agreed targets. The
technical assistance, through its support of extensive training, was also supportive of the cultural
change that is critical to any process or organizational change.

d. Public awareness campaign. Not accomplished. The development of a public awareness
campaign was never carried out. While internal communications mechanisms were developed as
part of the project, no large-scale public information campaign was mounted, which would have
been important in order to "sell" the reform to the general public. Although the objectives under
Component 3 were accomplished, the lack of a public communication campaign diminished the
overall impact of the reform in the eyes of the general public and IMSS employees. Interviewees
cite the failure to develop a communications strategy as one of the major limitations of the reform
process.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

High. Despite the shortcomings related to implementation of many of the activities designed
under the project, the institutional impact of the project was significant. The project provided
IMSS with resources and ideas at a time of transition. The implementation of the SSHF and the
IDF are signaled by key decision makers in the IMSS as fundamental elements in the process of
creating a more modern IMSS, governed by increasing transparency and a performance-based
culture. Efforts to design new, decentralized operational procedures and organizational structures
were highly consistent with the vision of a more modern IMSS and had an important impact on
the IMSS successful transition. While the unfinished agenda is still long, the organizational
change in an institution of 350,000 employees operating in diverse environments is not a simple
task. The project made a valuable contribution to improving the institutional framework for
modernization.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Although the change of administration altered the pace of reform and introduced some important
policy changes it did not deter the overall reform course. Most importantly, the new
administration continue to support the reform effort, institutionalized a major part of the changes,
and developed new strategies to face difficulties generated by the political environment around
two of the main aspects of the original reform proposal, such as opting-out and free choice. The
general public and the legislative body perceived the introduction of market mechanisms as the
privatization of IMSS services. Labor Unions and the Senate resisted these changes. In response,
the new administration reshaped the reform strategy and prevented the reform process from



                                                     - 10 -

stalling. This reduced the scope of the original reform package to be supported by the SECAL.
The original package, in hindsight, can be seen as highly ambitious given the complexity of the
institution and the absence of the necessary political support to implement such changes. As
mentioned before, the reform process lacked a strong communication strategy that would have
been important to achieve consensus around the introduction of competitive mechanisms. An
aggressive and clear strategy for managing the proposed changes in this area, and for
communicating openly with stakeholders, is key to reduce opposition to the introduction of
market mechanisms.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The relationship between the political authorities and the IMSS technical team regarding the
implementation of the project appears to have been insufficient to achieve the difficult policy
changes that were envisioned under the SECAL. Frequent changes in the Director General of
IMSS also made it difficult for the government to exert the continuous and direct pressure and
lobbying that were required to introduce the more difficult policy changes as discussed above.
However, the government made important efforts to ensure the sustainability of the project by
guaranteeing the adequate resources and budget from one administration to another. The
continuity and communication of IMSS and SHCP in this regard allowed the projects that had
sufficient political support to move forward on most of the reforms.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Many of the key stakeholders interviewed for the ICR preparation process cite the strong support
to the reform package of the medical and finance directorates at the IMSS and stressed the
linkages that existed between many of the areas of the IMSS and the PCU that were helpful in
managing the reform projects, thus resulting in an excellent coordination work of project
activities. Interviewees were unanimous in identifying the vision of the medical directorate and
leadership of these two areas as critical elements for the advancement of the reform agenda.
However, they also emphasized that information about reform content and procedures was
insufficient even among middle management at the IMSS and noted that the "low profile" of the
project and the lack of an information strategy impeded the development of broader public
support of the reform process.

Throughout the life of the project, three successive changes in the IMSS Director General did not
facilitate continuity and made it difficult to achieve strong ownership of the project. Nevertheless,
the IMSS did keep the reform process alive and to made adjustments to the reform proposal
according to the political reality of the moment.

The PCU managed the implementation of the project's multiple policy actions in a satisfactory
manner. The main issue regarding the project's overall impact is with regard to the delays or
failure to implement some of the reform measures to reach the "point of no return". There are two
key factors that should be highlighted in this regard. First, the initial delay of 8 months in
establishing the PCU and naming the PCU director constitute a significant source of time lost in
pursuit of the implementation. While this delay was overcome at a technical level by diligent
work by the PCU and the extensive use of external consultants, the political opportunities were



                                                    - 11 -

difficult to recover.    The PCU was more limited to managing the contracting process of technical
assistance rather than "paving roads" to facilitate the implementation of the reform process. The
diverse and complex policy agenda established by the project design made it difficult for the PCU
to focus sufficient energy on each project activity and to map a critical path from design to
implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The original design of two tranches each amounting to US$350 million was changed during
implementation in an effort to accommodate to the political reality of the sector. Two
amendments during the life of the project transformed the SECAL to a three-tranche operation of
US$625 million instead of the originally negotiated two-tranche adjustment operation of US$700
million. Instead of two US$350 million tranches, the operation disbursed a first tranche of
US$350 million as planned, a second tranche of US$200 million on November 2000 and a third
tranche of US$75 million on September of 2002. The remaining US$75 million was cancelled
upon mutual agreement between the Bank, the implementation agency and the Borrower in an
effort to find the most suitable solution to changes in the reform strategy not reflected in the
original design of the SECAL.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely. The reform measures introduced under the project are likely to be sustained given the
strong commitment of the IMSS to the reform agenda. The actions taken with regard to resource
allocation, organizational restructuring and PHC model have undergone changes from the original
design but the overall direction of the reforms has not been significantly changed. The IMSS
continues to implement the DRG system to improve the allocation of resources, to adapt its
corporate organizational structure, and to complete the SIAREFI information system.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

As cited above, most of the activities financed by the project have been fully integrated into the
IMSS organizational and functional structure. The new administration, which assumed
management in 2000, integrated the functions of the PCU into the IMSS organizational structure
and the key mechanisms developed under the project have been integrated into the IMSS
operational structure.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The participation of the Bank in the design and consensus building related to the
reforms was considered exemplary by the key stakeholders interviewed during the ICR
preparation process. Many of the stakeholders interviewed cited the important role played by the
Bank in assisting with the development of a coherent policy framework and in establishing a road
map to reform. The preparation process was characterized as a highly constructive process in



                                                  - 12 -

which the Bank provided superior technical assistance to develop the conceptual framework for
difficult reform issues. Before the provision of assistance, a number of reform initiatives had been
developed by the government and Mexican institutions but no consensus had been built around
the reforms. By singling out the IMSS as the target for reforms, the Bank assisted with the
transition from platitudes to practice. The main drawbacks of the Bank's participation in this
process is with regard to the ambitious reforms that were envisioned and the failure to estimate
correctly the importance of developing strategies to deal with the political and operational
complexity of the organization and the sector itself. Paradoxically, the Quality at Entry review
considered at the time that the Bank was requiring compliance with an insufficient package of
reforms. However, it is important to highlight the need to design projects that are political as well
as technically feasible for the borrower (see Quality at Entry section).

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. Bank supervision efforts were satisfactory. Supervision during execution was
timely, of good quality and with professional teams of appropriate composition. This adjustment
operation was one of the first the Bank supported in the sector and during implementation, the
Bank changed its supervision strategy and made important efforts to accommodate the political
and institutional reality of the IMSS and of the sector to the implementation of the reforms in the
SECAL conditionality. Using a highly debated and unusual practice, the Bank discussed with the
Borrower several alternatives to introduce certain flexibility and support efforts to achieve project
objectives. The SECAL Loan Agreement was amended twice in order to allow more time for the
introduction of the most controversial aspects of the reform. The second tranche was split in two
tranches in November of 2000 just before the new administration would take over. Later, in June
2002 the third tranche was reduced in scope and a partial disbursement was made while canceling
the rest of the resources. This approach allowed both the client and the Bank to have a more fluid
and open dialogue and to combine efforts when assessing the feasibility of implementing certain
aspects of the originally proposed reform package.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. The Bank has been a major supporter of the health reform process in Mexico.
With the design and implementation of the TAL and SECAL projects, the Bank supported a
complex consensus-building process around social security reform ­a highly debated topic in
Mexico. The implementation of the TAL introduced technical instruments and activities
necessary for policy change while the SECAL supported policy changes that could have taken
even more time.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Highly Satisfactory. The government was very active in the preparation of the project.
Through activities financed by the IMSS and the Japanese Grant, detailed preparation work was
carried out to prepare the IMSS for rapid implementation of key activities identified during
preparation. The borrower also took a proactive approach to building consensus among key
stakeholders, prior to project implementation, which allowed the project to rapidly launch key
activities. The consensus building and development of the institutional aspects that were critical to


                                                - 13 -

the project's execution took longer than initially estimated, resulting in the 8 month delay in
project implementation. Despite the delay, the preparation work was necessary and well executed.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. In a project as complex as the IMSS reform project, strong support from other
areas of the Government outside the IMSS are essential for success. The implementation of the
TAL activities received in general adequate support although the IMSS was often left almost
alone to develop its project implementation agenda and follow compliance with SECAL
conditionality in a difficult institutional environment. It is true that this was the first adjustment
operation in the social sectors in Mexico and a new initiative for both the Bank and the Borrower.
The experience of the SECAL demonstrated that strong support from the Government to the
institution implementing change is critical for the reform success. However, usually in countries
in the region ­and the IMSS project is not an exception--reforms in the health sector have been
left to the institutions in charge of the sector with little or no involvement of other government
agencies.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. The PCU developed strong capacity to design and execute the technical assistance
envisaged under the project. The PCU, as an external agency staffed mostly by consultants, was
successful in the implementation of the technical inputs under the TAL but had more limited
success in institutionalizing the changes proposed under the SECAL. Although the coordination
between the PCU and several of the IMSS directorates was very good, the PCU was deficient in
its leverage for "paving the road" for implementation of the reforms in the SECAL in a highly
complex institutional and political environment. This experience shows that it is not only
important for the implementing agency to have very strong and constant support from other
government agencies, but a PCU configured strategically to develop highly complex technical
assistance inputs under the TAL and strongly equipped with reform visionaries and sufficient
leverage to drive the implementation of the reforms under the SECAL.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. The government accepted the challenge of launching a comprehensive reform
process, over a very short time, of one of the country's largest and more complex institutions in
the sector. IMSS accomplished major changes in its financial mechanisms and its corporate
structure and successfully internalized the reform agenda in a difficult institutional environment.
Expectations were only partially met with regard to the introduction of competition, changes in
the family medicine model and the introduction of provider payment mechanisms.

8. Lessons Learned

Because the reform in Mexico was supported by the Bank with a SECAL/TAL package and not
an individual investment operation, lessons learned from the design, implementation and
supervision of both projects in support of one reform process need to be considered in parallel.
This section analyzes lessons learned from both Bank operations, the SECAL and the TAL acting
together to support one reform process. Some of the lessons learned in this section also apply to



                                                  - 14 -

the TAL and are presented in the TAL ICR and vice versa. In addition, many of the activities
carried out under this project have been proposed in other countries and supported by different
types of instruments, permitting additional lessons learned.

While this is not an intensive learning ICR, the preparation process has considered extensive
stakeholder analysis based on the results of a qualitative and quantitative evaluation of the project.
On the qualitative side, a team of external consultants was contracted to collect information.
More than 30 interviews, organized in five modules, took place in Mexico with key stakeholders.
These interviews provide an in-depth view into both the TAL and the SECAL projects objectives
and outcomes. This was complemented with an in-depth review of the project objectives,
activities and outcomes, in the context of a logical framework that substantiated many of the ICR
findings regarding project implementation. Following approval of the ICR, the Bank plans to
hold a workshop with the IMSS to discuss the ICR findings and the lessons learned.

This section is divided into three parts. A more general part addressing project design and
implementation issues is followed by a discussion of lessons learned, organized according to the
main strategies of the reform process: (1) overall comments on project design and
implementation; (2) issues related to the separation of functions, resource allocation and
reimbursement mechanisms (including DRGs); and (3) the redefined primary health care model.

Part One: Project design and implementation

8.1     In order to increase the probability of success, reforms should consider the
particular organizational and political environments where the reform process is to be
launched and implemented. When difficult reforms are to be introduced, such as opting-out or
consumer choice of physicians, the Bank and the Borrower should ensure wide stakeholder
support for the proposed measures to avoid future opposition. In the case of this project, there
was internal support for these measures and a belief that political and stakeholder support would
be obtained later on. The failure to account for the political and organizational complexities
related to implementing elaborate policy changes will undermine the probability of success.

8.2     Policy-based lending, such as the SECAL, is appropriate if difficult policy decisions
will be fully supported by the central government and executive branch. A lack of support
by either the Ministry of Finance or the Executive Branch introduces considerable risk for any
adjustment project that strives to achieve difficult policy goals.

8.3     Policy-based adjustment programs in the social sectors require more intensive
supervision than regular investment operations. The Bank could develop new strategies for
the supervision of these types of operations, incorporating strong technical work with parallel
high level policy dialogue with the client.

8.4     The Bank and the client could support the creation of a monitoring and evaluation
system capable of keeping a close eye on the synergy that should accompany the
implementation of a SECAL with the technical support of the TAL. Close coordination
between the actions of the SECAL and the TAL are essential to maximize impact. One
interviewee cited the need to have a `maintenance contract' whereby the Bank provides a higher
level of technical support and supervision throughout the execution of a complex adjustment loan.



                                                 - 15 -

The Bank should consider and carefully evaluate an array of strategies to evaluate compliance
with conditions for tranche releases. A shared exercise with the client invites an open exchange of
views and a mutual understanding of the limitations of the Borrower, the implementing agency
and the Bank.

8.5     Reform processes need a clearly identified strategist and visionary body with whom
the Bank should maintain close coordination and mutual support. Without mutual
collaboration between the Bank and an identifiable force that moves the reform in both the
technical and the political arenas, there is high risk for the Bank as well as for the Borrower of
losing connection with the actual implementation process and undermining the capability of
evaluating and implementing any modifications to the reform plan as needed.

8.6     Reform processes should identify "early wins" that will provide buy in and political
capital to make more difficult structural changes down the road. The IMSS project was very
low profile, both within the Institute and to the general public. While this is partially a function of
the Institute's size, it is also an issue related to project design and implementation strategy. The
project included a number of sophisticated policy changes but few tangible results that were
`sellable' to politicians and to IMSS members. The possibility of producing `early wins' is clearly
related to reaching the point of "no return" in the reform process.

8.7     Although "early wins" are necessary, they are not sufficient. A strong
communication strategy tailored to different audiences is imperative to reach consensus
and support for the reform process. Health reform projects should insist in supporting a well
thought communication strategy to accompany sector change.

8.8     Bank support to a reform process might be more effective when designed as an
investment operation at the beginning of the process to set up the necessary conditions to
enable policy implementation, followed by disbursements of resources linked to the
achievement of specific goals through policy change. The implementation of parallel
operations, including both the investment and policy framework, demonstrates the difficulty in
maintaining a strict relationship between technical assistance and policy change. Investment and
technical assistance usually precede the more difficult policy changes and clarify the exact scope
of reform that is possible. The combination of adjustment and TA loan is better suited to second
generation lending, where an institution has already received technical assistance and the
definition of policy conditionality better reflects the institutional capacity to achieve change.

8.9     A reform process of this nature is a long term endeavor; successful implementation
of the TAL and the SECAL should plant the seed for long term change. Project design and
implementation should include support for special activities to ease understanding of the reform
major objectives in the presence of government transitions, as well as to tailor the reform major
activities to a particular government administration's sector strategy.

8.10    A SECAL/TAL package requires more than the usual structure of an investment
project PCU. The implementing agency needs to be equipped with a PCU that can do more than
the successful processing of technical assistance inputs under the TAL. The PCU should have



                                                    - 16 -

time to devote to the policy debate and implementation, aside from the time-consuming efforts of
managing contractual arrangements for the production of technical inputs.

Part Two: Separation of functions

8.11    A balanced depth and parallel pace of required legal changes and necessary
technical developments should be always maintained in a reform process. Nearly all of the
changes carried out under the IMSS reform program were instituted on purely technical
grounds. Reforms do not occur only with the support of policy conditionality; it is necessary to
have legal changes accompanying the technical changes that the adjustment operation aims to
achieve.

8.12    The strategy for implementating activities supporting the separation of financing
and delivery of services should include actions that are both "top down" and "bottom up"
to address institutions that are vertically integrated as in the case of the IMSS. The real
separation of financing and delivery in institutions that are regulators, payors and providers
requires political decisions at the highest level and legal changes, as well as a "bottom up"
approach introducing management contracts and changing the institutional culture.

8.13    In order for the separation of functions to promote real efficiency gains, policy
change must be made to reflect the introduction and implementation of incentives in the
payment mechanism to health care providers. While the introduction of acuerdos de gestión
promoted a shift to a performance based framework and was consistent with the decentralization
process, the failure to link provider payments with performance has been a limiting factor of the
reforms. If providers are to actively engage in the performance based framework and the
contracting mentality then they have to receive adequate incentives to play the new role. These
include: (a) transferring sufficient risk to IMSS providers and IMSS hospital managers so that
reward and sanctions are directly perceived; (b) the introduction of competition among hospitals,
allowing the insured population to change providers and to shift resources based on the
consumer's decision. While the need for competition is much more limited at the primary care
level, there is also scope to introduce consumer choice among AMGDs; and (c) economic
incentives are to be assigned according to the evaluation of appropriate indicators and the
compliance with several institutional goals.

8.14    The implementation of the DRGs is a complex, highly technical issue that must be
accompanied by concomitant policy changes that allow its introduction to potential users
and its use as a powerful instrument to allocate financial resources.


Part Three: Redefining the health care model

8.15    The implementation of competitive elements in the health care financing and
provision model should be supported by decisive policy change that embraces both strategy
and timing issues. This is necessary to smooth the transition and to diminish strong
resistance from interest groups. In order to ensure that significant changes in the health care
delivery model are made it is important to aim for broader changes than those restricted to the



                                                  - 17 -

introduction of competitive elements such as "free choice": extensions in coverage, changes in
protocols, introduction of quality management techniques, among others. These changes will also
allow the population and the health care workers to better understand the policy changes that are
proposed.

8.16    Policy changes in the health care delivery model should be managed in close
connection with financial, institutional and corporate reforms; otherwise the overall impact
of the reform is diminished in all areas. The design of changes in health care models are
unlikely to succeed if they do not consider the overall sustainability and complexity of the
organizational change. This requires planning and coordination between medical, financial and
administrative structures in the organizations.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Comments from the Instituto Mexicano de Seguridad Social (IMSS)

        This was an important operation for IMSS because it triggered changes that otherwise
might not have been forthcoming. The work with the Bank staff was always respectful and
enriching. We had full support from Mr. Olivier Lafourcade and all the office in Mexico, and the
teams coming from Washington were of very high quality, which enriched the development of the
projects.

        This was a project that was politicized early on, and it was difficult to overcome resistance
in the early months (there were delays even to sign). The project related to reforms that have
proven to be complex in many countries, and perhaps that was an important cause of that initial
condition.

        Perhaps it would be useful to distinguish in the "matrix of compromises"* the
administrative and the political issues. In a project as large and complex as this one, both types of
projects are difficult, but the organization has much more control on the administrative than in the
political goals.

        The alignment of the TAL projects with SECAL´s goals is key. The administrative
components of both loans require substantial consultancy, and a component that might have been
useful would have been a contract with a consultant to prepare Terms of Reference and to advise
on the technical development of the project. IMSS has followed this approach with success in
Information Technology projects. This has to do with the proper role of the Unit to Coordinate
the Project (UCP): should it be a project manager or should it develop the TOR and do the
detailed follow-up of the contracts? In a large project with diverse topics, perhaps the role of
project manager is more appropriate.

*"matrix of compromises" is the same as policy matrix.




                                                 - 18 -

Comments from Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP):

1)      La Secretaría de Hacienda considera que la participación de Banco Mundial en este
proyecto ha sido muy positiva y proporcionó valor agregado. En particular se observa que el
trabajo del Banco ha sido valioso y enriquecedor en la etapa del diseño de la reforma. La
aportación del Banco fue con la experiencia de técnicos altamente calificados que contribuyeron a
diseñar una reforma de gran alcance.

2)      Igualmente se considera que para este tipo de proyectos de ajuste, lo trabajos de
supervisión del Banco adquieren un importancia fundamental. Como es bien sabido la
implementación de los Programas de Reforma enfrentan normalmente dificultades y resistencias
que ponen riesgo el logro de sus objetivos. De esta forma, un trabajo de supervisión del Banco
que sea muy estrecho y constante permitirá identificar con antelación las dificultades y por ende
tomar en forma oportuna las medidas correctivas que correspondan. Por estas razones, podría ser
conveniente que el programa de trabajo de las actividades de supervisión se diseñe desde la etapa
de preparación del proyecto y que la realización de las misiones se apegue a éste en forma
estricta.

3)      Otro elemento que podría contribuir al logro de los objetivos del proyecto, es contar
durante la fase de ejecución del proyecto con una facilidad de asistencia técnica del Banco que
permita respaldar trabajos que surjan como necesarios.

4)      Para efecto de las lecciones obtenidas no sobra reiterar la recomendación que el Reporte
de Terminación otorgue especial atención a identificar las causas y factores que originaron
impidieron el alcance de algunas metas o que representaron las dificultades que no pudieron ser
vencidas.

5)      Una lección aprendida en lo que corresponde al grupo de trabajo para la preparación de
operaciones de este tipo es la importancia que tiene el contar dentro de la estructura del Gobierno
Federal con un funcionario "designado" que sea responsable de la preparación proyecto. Es
igualmente importante que este funcionario participe desde la fase inicial de diseño de la reforma.
Como requisitos, el responsable además del conocimiento del sector, debe tener conocimiento en
materia económica y financiera.
Asimismo, y por las implicaciones que tienen proyectos de reforma, es recomendable que dentro
de la estructura gubernamental, preferentemente atienda en línea directa al titular del ministerio de
hacienda del país. El funcionario responsable además de actuar como promotor del proyecto,
debe contar con atribuciones para poder acordar temas de gran alcance e impacto en el país.

6)      Por otra parte, y no obstante el trabajo profesional y de alta calidad de los diversos
oficiales que tuvo proyecto, el Gobierno de México considera con mucha preocupación que el
Banco Mundial continúe sufriendo de una rotación de personal muy intensa. Se considera que en
algún grado la efectividad de la supervisión que el Banco otorgó a los proyectos del IMSS fue
mermada como consecuencia de este problema. Por esta razón se recomienda al Banco Mundial
tomar las mediadas para reducir este problema.

(b) Cofinanciers:



                                                 - 19 -

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information

ICR Team:
Maria Luisa Escobar (Lead Economist, ICR Task Leader)
James Cercone (Health Economist and Health Policy Analyst)
Alvaro Salas ( Physician)
Panagiota Panopoulou (Health Economist)
Claudia Macías (Operations Officer)
Lourdes Noel (Program Assistant)

Counterpart team: Gabriel Martínez, Kirsten Fink, Beatriz Zurita, Onofre Muñoz, Blanca
Conessa, Ismael Diaz, Alejandro Peralta y Maria Guadalupe Perez.

Comments provided from:
Evangeline Javier
Susana Augusto
Helena Ribe
Mark Hagerstrom
Helen Saxenian




                                             - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                                                                                                       Matrix of Policy Actions
                                                                                                                 (As appraised in May, 1998)
                                                                                                                                      Page 1 of 7
                                              A. MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
                                                           As appraised in May, 1998

(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, to be monitored as part of the overall
                                                               program implementation


                                                                                                 Steps to be taken between
               Component                                        First Tranche                    First and Second Tranche                    Second Tranche
                                                                                                   (Mid-Term Review)
I. General Conditions

A. Maintenance of Overall Policy Framework   Presentation of Signed Policy Letter
                                             Compliance with loan agreement effectiveness                                     Compliance with loan agreement section 2.02
                                             conditions                                                                       (d) conditions
II. Health Finance and Regulatory Framework


A. Reforms to Health Insurance Financing in  SSHF approved by Consejo Técnico of IMSS,                                        The SSHF has been operating since its
   IMSS                                      via approval of operational guidelines according                                 inception in a manner fully consistent with the
                                             to following principles:                                                         SSHF Operational Guidelines, the SSHF
                                             (i)   contributing to risk pooling, limiting                                     Implementation Plan and applicable SSHF
                                                   adverse selection, and incorporating                                       reserves and liabilities management
                                                   catastrophic risks;                                                        regulations;
                                             (ii) promoting competition and user choice,
                                                   notably through subcontracting and opting-
                                                   out;
                                             (iii) developing contractual and financing
                                                   mechanisms that facilitate the development
                                                   of an internal market in IMSS;
                                             (iv) maintaining the independent supervision
                                                   capacity of the health system; and
                                             (v) framework for investment through IDF;

                                             IMSS legal opinion confirming legal basis of
                                             SSHF; and




                                                                                  - 21 -

                                                                                                                                 Matrix of Policy Actions
                                                                                                                           (As appraised in May, 1998)
                                                                                                                                                    Page 2 of 7

                                                                                                     Steps to be taken between
            Component                                     First Tranche                              First and Second Tranche                             Second Tranche
                                                                                                        (Mid-Term Review)

                                        Presentation of Terms of Reference for              Review of the design of the regulatory and
                                        strengthening the supervisory capacity of           supervisory framework proposed for the
                                        existing control mechanisms for financial and       SSHF;
                                        health care delivery regulations, including:
                                             I.         quality of care and user
                                                        satisfaction;
                                             II.        monitoring management
                                                        contracts;1 between SSHF and
                                                        MCOs, and MCOs and Providers;
                                             III.       increasing the availability of user
                                                        information;
                                             IV.        financial reporting and solvency
                                                        requirements; and

                                        Presentation of a draft agreement between the                                                      The Guarantor and IMSS have prepared a joint
                                        SHCP and IMSS regarding the regulatory and          Issuance of regulations for the management of  strategy for sound long-term management of
                                        institutional framework for the management of       the financial reserves of the IMSS health      IMSS´ liabilities; and
                                        IMSS reserves, with specific emphasis on the        insurance fund, including inter alia:
                                        financing of health insurance reserves,                  1.   annual targets for IDF, management
                                        management of outstanding liabilities and the                 of other liabilities and general
                                        IDF                                                           reserves;
                                                                                                 1.   investment instruments;
                                                                                                 2.   guidelines for acceptable levels of
                                                                                                      financial risk;
                                                                                                 3.   scope and timing of investments,     IMSS has established and is operating a
                                                                                                      and                                  database of IMSS beneficiaries, to serve as a
                                                                                                 1.   minimum levels of liquidity          mechanism for administering and monitoring:
                                                                                                                                           (a) medical benefits paid by IMSS for its
                                                                                                                                           beneficiaries; and (b) health service provider
                                                                                                                                           choices made by such beneficiaries




1      These refer to purchasing agreements, or administrative arrangements, as referred to in the loan
agreement




                                                                             - 22 -

                                                                                                                                               Matrix of Policy Actions
                                                                                                                                       (As appraised in May, 1998)
                                                                                                                                                                    Page 3 of 7

                                                                                                                    Steps to be taken between
                  Component                                           First Tranche                                 First and Second Tranche                              Second Tranche
                                                                                                                       (Mid-Term Review)

    B. Increasing user choice and extending        Presentation of Draft Regulations allowing for         Draft strategy allowing for IMSS affiliates to IMSS has prepared a strategy to allow
         coverage of voluntary affiliation         IMSS affiliates to opt out1 through the                choose among Medical Area Units;               beneficiaries to choose the Medical Area Unit
         insurance within IMSS (opting-out and     prestacion indirecta program; and                                                                     from which they will obtain medical services.;
         opting-in)
                                                                                                                                                         IMSS has been allowing, and continues to
    (i) Facilitating user choice and                                                                      Issuance of regulations and guidelines for     allow, IMSS beneficiaries to choose
        competition amongst Medical Area                                                                  firms to choose between IMSS and public and    alternative non-IMSS insurance providers in
        Units and MCOs;                                                                                   private MCOs (opting-out), covering inter      order to be covered by public or private
                                                                                                          alia:                                          medical managed care provision schemes, all
                                                                                                          (i)   integrated health care model (benefits   in compliance with regulations issued by
                                                                                                                package) and financing;                  IMSS to that effect (which regulations, inter
                                                                                                          (ii) instruments to limit risk selection;      alia, satisfactorily protect beneficiaries' rights
                                                                                                          (iii) minimum quality standards;               by requiring minimum service quality and
                                                                                                          (iv) financial standard;                       financial soundness standards).;
                                                                                                          (v) protection of users' rights;
                                                                                                          (vi) penalties for non-compliance; and
                                                                                                          (vii) supervision and evaluation               IMSS has been allowing, and continues to
                                                                                                                                                         allow (in compliance with regulations issued
    (ii)Promoting user choice of primary           Presentation of an action plan for choice of           Issuance of regulations and guidelines by      by IMSS to that effect), all IMSS beneficiaries
        physicians; and                            primary health care physicians                         IMSS allowing for free choice of physician in  in at least thirty Medical Area Units to choose
                                                                                                          selected Medical Area Units; and               their own primary care physician from among
                                                                                                                                                         those IMSS physicians belonging to the
                                                                                                                                                         beneficiaries' Medical Area Unit;




1          In the IMSS case, "opting-out" refers to a system where beneficiaries choose to receive health benefits through
alternative providers, which will guarantee a minimal level of service provision in exchange for a fixed fee based on a risk-
adjusted capitated payment scheme. However, they remain part of overall social security financing and insurance system.
Conversely, "opting-in" refers to new entrants into the IMSS health care system, ostensibly from the self-employed and
informal sector populations.




                                                                                        - 23 -

                                                                                                                                               Matrix of Policy Actions
                                                                                                                                        (As appraised in May, 1998)
                                                                                                                                                                 Page 4 of 7

                                                                                                                     Steps to be taken between
                  Component                                             First Tranche                                First and Second Tranche                         Second Tranche
                                                                                                                        (Mid-Term Review)

    (iii)Promoting the extension of coverage                                                               Issuance of regulations and guidelines by   In compliance with regulations issued by
         through voluntary affiliation insurance                                                           IMSS governing opting-in                    IMSS to that effect, at least 200,000 new
         (opting-in)                                                                                                                                   beneficiaries1 have (during the period
                                                                                                                                                       specified in the Loan Agreement) enrolled in
                                                                                                                                                       the IMSS publicly subsidized insurance
                                                                                                                                                       system for the self-employed and informal
                                                                                                                                                       sector workers


    C. Development of Purchasing                      Presentation of draft model management               Review progress on implementation of        IMSS has signed and is implementing
         Mechanisms                                   contracts and guidelines for contracting between:    purchasing mechanisms and the introduction  management contracts with at least thirty
                                                      (a) IMSS and Medical Area Units; and                 of new provider reimbursement mechanisms    Medical Area Units, whereby, inter alia: (i)
                                                      (b) IMSS and Specialty Hospitals; and                                                            IMSS shall gradually allocate resources to
                                                                                                                                                       such Medical Area Units through risk-adjusted
                                                      Presentation of Terms of Reference for                                                           capitation mechanisms; (ii) the performance of
                                                      developing a patient classification system,                                                      the Medical Area Units shall be assessed
                                                      including an Action Plan for implementing a                                                      through specified evaluation systems; and (iii)
                                                      hospital payment system based on diagnosis-                                                      incentives shall be established to reward
                                                      related groups (DRGs), or some other patient                                                     improved Medical Area Unit health service
                                                      classification system                                                                            delivery performance;

                                                                                                                                                       Such capitation mechanisms are being fully
                                                                                                                                                       applied, on a pilot basis, to reimburse primary
                                                                                                                                                       care physicians (in at least five of said thirty
                                                                                                                                                       Medical Area Units) for their health delivery
                                                                                                                                                       services;




1          "New beneficiaries" excludes students (enrolling as such) and State or municipal workers, and the number of "new
beneficiaries" is calculated on a net basis (thus excluding those who enrolled in, but subsequently dropped out of, the IMSS
social security voluntary or obligatory regimes during the measurement period in question).




                                                                                           - 24 -

                                                                                                                                Matrix of Policy Actions
                                                                                                                          (As appraised in May, 1998)
                                                                                                                                                     Page 5 of 7

                                                                                                      Steps to be taken between
                 Component                                  First Tranche                             First and Second Tranche                              Second Tranche
                                                                                                         (Mid-Term Review)

                                                                                                                                            IMSS has presented to the Bank an evaluation
                                                                                                                                            of its experience with the implementation of
                                                                                                                                            the management contracts referred to above;

                                                                                                                                            (IMSS has signed and is implementing
                                                                                                                                            management contracts, with at least five
                                                                                                                                            of its Specialty Hospitals, whereby, inter
                                                                                                                                            alia, IMSS is fully allocating resources to
                                                                                                                                            such Specialty Hospitals through
                                                                                                                                            diagnosis related or patient classification
                                                                                                                                            mechanisms;

                                                                                                                                            Fifteen IMSS hospitals (other than the five
                                                                                                                                            Specialty Hospitals mentioned above) have
                                                                                                                                            been using, and continue to use, diagnosis
                                                                                                                                            related or patient classification systems for
                                                                                                                                            internal administrative purposes
III. Institutional Strengthening of IMSS


A. Corporate Restructuring and management  Presentation of Action Plan and timetable for the Presentation of a Corporate Restructuring Plan IMSS has been, and continues to be,
    decentralization of IMSS Health Care   corporate restructuring of IMSS Health Care       for IMSS health care system, including         reforming its corporate structure in
    System                                 System ("Modelo Integral de Atención a la         organizational and functional changes for      compliance with the terms and timetable of a
                                           Salud"); and                                      central level administration, development of   restructuring plan issued by IMSS (which
                                                                                             Medical Area Units, management of the health   plan, inter alia, emphasizes the
                                                                                             delivery network; and                          decentralization of IMSS administration to,
                                                                                                                                            and greater autonomy for and competition
                                                                                                                                            among, Medical Area Units);




                                                                             - 25 -

                                                                                                                                Matrix of Policy Actions
                                                                                                                         (As appraised in May, 1998)
                                                                                                                                                    Page 6 of 7

                                                                                                   Steps to be taken between
               Component                                   First Tranche                           First and Second Tranche                               Second Tranche
                                                                                                       (Mid-Term Review)

                                         Approval by IMSS of guidelines for the            Evidence of progress in designing and           At least fifteen Medical Area Units and
                                         operation of the Medical Area Units               implementing restructuring plans in at least    five Specialty Hospitals have each
                                                                                           ten budgetholding Medical Area Units.           prepared operational development plans,
                                                                                                                                           for purposes of reforming administration
                                                                                                                                           of such Medical Area Units and Specialty
                                                                                                                                           Hospitals; and

                                                                                                                                           Each of said fifteen Medical Area Units and
                                                                                                                                           five Specialty Hospitals is implementing its
                                                                                                                                           operational development plan referred to
                                                                                                                                           above, in accordance with such plan's terms.


B. Strengthening the IMSS health care    Issuance of an IDF Operational Manual,            Compliance with operating guidelines for        At least 60 percent of the funds included in the
   delivery network                      including eligibility criteria and procedures to  IDF; and                                        IDF Investment Program have been
                                         request financial support from the IDF for                                                        committed in accordance with the provisions
                                         development purposes, along with a 3 year                                                         of the IDF Operational Manual;
                                         investment program for investment and approval
                                         of subprojects                                                                                    At least half of said committed funds have
                                                                                                                                           already been disbursed;

                                                                                                                                           IMSS has been, and continues to be,
                                                                                           The establishment of a Quality Assurance        improving the quality of its health care
                                                                                           Board with a fully-defined membership,          delivery services, particularly in at least five
                                                                                           organization, authority, functions, and         Medical Area Units in urban zones, in
                                                                                           responsibilities, and a draft Quality Assurance accordance with the terms of a quality
                                                                                           Program covering operating procedures and an    assurance plan issued by IMSS and under the
                                                                                           implementation plan.                            guidance of a quality assurance board
                                                                                                                                           operating within IMSS; and




                                                                              - 26 -

                                                                                                           Matrix of Policy Actions
                                                                                                    (As appraised in May, 1998)
                                                                                                                                    Page 7 of 7

                                                                  Steps to be taken between
                Component                First Tranche             First and Second Tranche                          Second Tranche
                                                                     (Mid-Term Review)

                                                                                                      IMSS has taken, and continues to take, actions
                                                                                                      aimed at improving accountability towards its
                                                                                                      beneficiaries, which actions include
                                                                                                      establishment of a consumer advisory board at
                                                                                                      the national level, use of client satisfaction
                                                                                                      surveys and acceptance of beneficiary
                                                                                                      representatives to act as formal contacts
                                                                                                      between IMSS and patients

C. Investment in Technical assistance


D. Public Awareness Campaign on IMSS                      Presentation of Communication Strategy for
Reform                                                    Public Awareness Campaign




                                                            - 27 -

                                                                                                                                    Matrix of Policy Actions
                                                                                                                       (As amended in November 2000)
                                                                                                                                                             Page 1 of 4
                                                 B. MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
                                                        As amended in November, 2000


                  Component                                                 Second Tranche                                                            Third Tranche


I. General Conditions

                                                Compliance with loan agreement section 2.02 (d) conditions

II. Health Finance and Regulatory Framework

A. Reforms to Health Insurance Financing in     The Guarantor and IMSS have prepared a joint strategy for sound long-   The SSHF has been operating since its inception in a manner fully
    IMSS                                        term management of IMSS' liabilities.                                   consistent with the SSHF Operational Guidelines, the SSHF
                                                                                                                        Implementation Plan and applicable SSHF reserves and liabilities
                                                                                                                        management regulations.
                                                .                                                                       IMSS has established and is operating a data base of IMSS
                                                                                                                        beneficiaries, to serve as a mechanism for administering and
                                                                                                                        monitoring: (a) medical benefits paid by IMSS for its beneficiaries;
                                                                                                                        and (b) health service provider choices made by such beneficiaries.
B. Increasing user choice and extending         IMSS has prepared a strategy to allow beneficiaries to choose the
    coverage of voluntary affiliation insurance Medical Area Unit from which they will obtain medical services
    within IMSS (opting-out and opting-in)

    (i) Facilitating user choice and                                                                                    IMSS has been allowing, and continues to allow, IMSS beneficiaries to
        competition amongst Medical Area                                                                                choose alternative non-IMSS insurance providers in order to be covered
        Units and MCOs;                                                                                                 by public or private medical managed care provision schemes, all in
                                                                                                                        compliance with regulations issued by IMSS to that effect (which
                                                                                                                        regulations, inter alia, satisfactorily protect beneficiaries' rights by
                                                                                                                        requiring minimum service quality and financial soundness standards).
    (ii) Promoting user choice of primary                                                                               IMSS has been allowing, and continues to allow (in compliance with
        physicians; and,                                                                                                regulations issued by IMSS to that effect), all IMSS beneficiaries in at
                                                                                                                        least thirty Medical Area Units to choose their own primary care
                                                                                                                        physician from among those IMSS physicians belonging to the
                                                                                                                        beneficiaries' Medical Area Unit.
    (iii) Promoting the extension of coverage   In compliance with regulations issued by IMSS to that effect, at least
        through voluntary affiliation insurance 200,000 new beneficiaries have, during the period beginning January 1,
        (opting-in)                             1998 and ending no earlier than two months prior to the Second
                                                Tranche Release Date, enrolled in the IMSS social security voluntary
                                                regime (régimen voluntario del Seguro Social) referred to in Article
                                                6.II of the Social Security Law or voluntarily enrolled in the IMSS
                                                social security obligatory regime (régimen obligatorio del Seguro
                                                Social) pursuant to the Second Title, Chapter IX of the Social Security
                                                Law. For purposes of this paragraph, "new beneficiaries" excludes
                                                students (enrolling as such) and State or municipal workers, and the
                                                number of "new beneficiaries" is calculated on a net basis (thus
                                                excluding those who enrolled in, but subsequently dropped out of, the
                                                IMSS social security voluntary or obligatory regimes during the
                                                measurement period in question).




                                                                                  - 28 -

                                                                         Matrix of Policy Actions
                                                             (As amended in November 2000)
                                                                                                  Page 2 of 4

              Component                    Second Tranche                                  Third Tranche



                                                              (a) IMSS has signed and is implementing administrative
C. Development of Purchasing Mechanisms                           arrangements with at least thirty Medical Area Units,
                                                                  whereby, inter alia:
                                                                  (i) IMSS shall gradually allocate resources to such Medical
                                                                        Area Units through risk-adjusted capitation mechanisms;

                                                                  (ii) the performance of the Medical Area Units shall be
                                                                        assessed through specified evaluation systems; and

                                                                  (iii) incentives shall be established to reward improved Medical
                                                                        Area Unit health service delivery performance;

                                                              (b) Such capitation mechanisms are being fully applied, on a
                                                                  pilot basis, to reimburse primary care physicians (in at least
                                                                  five of said thirty Medical Area Units) for their health
                                                                  delivery services; and

                                                              (c) IMSS has presented to the Bank an evaluation of its experience with
                                                                  the implementation of the administrative arrangements referred to in
                                                                  subparagraph (a) of this paragraph.

                                                              (d)        IMSS has signed and is implementing administrative
                                                              arrangements, with at least five of its Specialty Hospitals,
                                                              whereby, inter alia, IMSS is fully allocating resources to such
                                                              Specialty Hospitals through diagnosis related or patient
                                                              classification mechanisms.

                                                              (e)        Fifteen IMSS hospitals (other than the five Specialty
                                                              Hospitals mentioned in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph) have been
                                                              using, and continue to use, diagnosis related or patient classification
                                                              systems for internal administrative purposes.




                                                - 29 -

                                                                                                                   Matrix of Policy Actions
                                                                                                             (As amended in November 2000)
                                                                                                                                 Page 3 of 4




                 Component                                             Second Tranche                                       Third Tranche



III. Institutional Strengthening of IMSS

A. Corporate Restructuring and management  IMSS has been, and continues to be, reforming its corporate
    decentraization of IMSS Health Care    structure in compliance with the terms and timetable of a
    System                                 restructuring plan issued by IMSS (which plan, inter alia,
                                           emphasizes the decentralization of IMSS administration to, and
                                           greater autonomy for and competition among, Medical Area
                                           Units).

                                            (a) At least fifteen Medical Area Units and five Specialty
                                                 Hospitals have each prepared operational development
                                                 plans, satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of reforming
                                                 administration of such Medical Area Units and Specialty
                                                 Hospitals.
                                            (b)
                                            (b) Each of said fifteen Medical Area Units and five Specialty
                                                Hospitals is implementing its operational development plan
                                                referred to above, in accordance with such plan's terms.
                                           As of a date no earlier than two months prior to the Second
B. Strengthening the IMSS health care      Tranche Release Date: (a) at least 60% (sixty percent) of the funds
    delivery network                       included in the IDF Investment Program have been committed
                                           through specific contracts with suppliers or contractors for
                                           purposes set forth in the IDF Investment Program and by means
                                           consistent with the provisions of the IDF Operational Manual;
                                           and (b) at least half of said committed funds have already been
                                           disbursed from the IDF to said suppliers or contractors for said
                                           purposes.




                                                                             - 30 -

                                                                                       Matrix of Policy Actions
                                                                                 (As amended in November 2000)
                                                                                                     Page 4 of 4

Component                               Second Tranche                                          Third Tranche



             IMSS has been, and continues to be, improving the quality of its
             health care delivery services, particularly in at least five Medical
             Area Units in urban zones, in accordance with the terms of a
             quality assurance plan issued by IMSS and under the guidance
             of a quality assurance board operating within IMSS.
             IMSS has taken, and continues to take, actions aimed at
             improving accountability towards its beneficiaries, which actions
             include establishment of a consumer advisory board at the
             national level, use of client satisfaction surveys and acceptance
             of beneficiary representatives to act as formal contacts between
             IMSS and patients.




                                               - 31 -

                  Component                                                  Third Tranche


I. General Conditions

                                                Compliance with loan agreement section 2.02 (e) conditions

II. Health Finance and Regulatory Framework

A. Reforms to Health Insurance Financing in     The Social Security Health Fund (SSHF) has been operating since its
   IMSS                                         inception in a manner fully consistent with the SSHF Operational
                                                Guidelines, the SSHF Implementation Plan, applicable SSHF reserves
                                                and liabilities management regulations, and annual agreements with the
                                                Guarantor's Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SCHP).

                                                IMSS has expanded the scope of the beneficiaries data base system
                                                design to include collections, auditing and payment of socioeconomic
                                                benefits and has allocated financial resources to develop and implement
                                                such changes.

B. Increasing user choice and extending         IMSS has designed and implemented a pilot experience to evaluate the
   coverage of voluntary affiliation insurance  impact of choice of primary care physician from among all possible
   within IMSS (opting-out and opting-in)       IMSS physicians by IMSS beneficiaries. IMSS has started to adapt its
                                                primary health care delivery model (in compliance with regulations
                                                issued by IMSS to that effect) in order to improve patient satisfaction
                                                and quality of health care.

   (i) Facilitating user choice and competition IMSS has been allowing, and continues to allow those beneficiaries that
       amongst Medical Area Units and           by December 31, 2001 were choosing alternative non-IMSS insurance
       MCOs;                                    providers in order to be covered by public or private medical managed
                                                care provision schemes to continue exercising such choice, all in
                                                compliance with regulations issued by IMSS to that effect. IMSS has
                                                opened opportunities for collaboration among public providers for the
                                                provision of medical services.

C. Development of Purchasing Mechanisms         IMSS has designed new management contract models to be
                                                signed between IMSS and Medical Area Units or Specialty
                                                Hospitals a manner consistent with IMSS' new organizational
                                                structure as established in the Social Security Law published in
                                                the Guarantor's official gazette (Boletín Oficial) on December 20,
                                                2001.

                                                IMSS has developed a strategy for deconcentration of 25
                                                Specialty Hospitals according to administrative agreements that
                                                include budget allocation according to diagnosis related or
                                                patient classification mechanisms, which is ready for
                                                implementation on the Guarantor's fiscal year 2003. IMSS has
                                                developed a methodology to incorporate case mix adjustment
                                                into the above mentioned budget allocation mechanism and has
                                                developed financial projections and estimated the impact of case
                                                mix adjustment.




                                                                                     - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

N/A




                                      - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 34 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/16/1996                4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (2);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPL (2)
              04/11/1997                8    HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SOCIAL SECURITY SPL (1)
              09/06/1997                6    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             HEALTH ADM. SPEC. (1);
                                             HOSPITAL SPL (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPL (1)
              09/16/1997              10     TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPL (2)
                                             SOCIAL SECURITY SPL (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/24/1997                4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             HEALTH ADM. SPEC. (2);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)

 Supervision
              09/14/1998                3    TASK MANAGER (2);
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC.
                                             (1)
              10/16/1998                1    PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC. (1)          S               S
              04/20/1999                4    TTL - HEALTH (1);                S               S
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPL (1);
                                             HEALTH FINANCE SPL (1);
                                             SECTOR LEADER (1)
              06/30/1999                2    TTL-HEALTH (1);                  S               S
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPL (1)
              10/08/1999                2    TTL - HEALTH (1);                S               S
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPECIAL
                                             (1)
              02/18/2000                3    TTL - HEALTH (1); SOCIAL         S               S
                                             SECURITY SPEC. (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              08/12/2000                6    HEALTH MANAGEMENT SP.            S               S
                                             (2); SOCIAL SECTOR SP. (1);
                                             OPERATION ANALYST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); SOCIAL SECURITY H. SP.
                                             (1)
              10/13/2000                4    HEALTH MGT. SPEC. (2);
                                             FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC. (1);



                                              - 35 -

                                                 OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
               01/16/2001                   8    HEALTH MGT.SPECIALIST
                                                 (1); SOCIAL PROGRAMS
                                                 SPECIA (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                 SYSTEMS & HEALTH MGT.S
                                                 (1); PUBLIC HEALTH
                                                 SPECIALI (1); FINANCIAL
                                                 MGT SPECIALI (1); SOCIAL
                                                 SECTOR SPECIALI (1)
               06/19/2001                   2    HEALTH MGT. SPECIALIST
                                                 (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                                 (1)

 ICR
               11/13/2001                   6    SR. HEALTH SPEC. (1);                                S
                                                 HEALTH MGT. SPEC. (1);
                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                                 (1); SYSTEMS & HEALTH
                                                 MGT. (1); PUBLIC
                                                 HEALTH SPEC. (1);
                                                 ECONOMIST (1)
               04/09/2002                   6    SENIOR HEALTH SPECIALI                               S
                                                 (1); HEALTH MGT.
                                                 SPECIALIST (1);
                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                 SYSTEMS AND HEALTH
                                                 MGT (1); PUBLIC HEALTH
                                                 SPECIALI (1); ECONOMIST
                                                 (1)
               09/16/2002                   3    HEALTH ECONOMIST (2);                                S
                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               11/08/2002                   2    HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                                                 OPERATONS OFFICE (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 93.96                        297.38
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       N/A                            N/A
  Supervision                                58.40                        177.50
  ICR                                        15.33                          38.98
  Total                                     167.69                        513.87
Note: The number of Staff Weeks for Identification and Preparation is only estimated since it is not
provided by SAP. Figures for Identification/Preparation include Appraisal/Negotiations costs.




                                                 - 36 -

(c) Travel and Consultants (Bank Budget):

       Stage of Project Cycle                                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            Travel             Consultants/Other           Total
                                          US$ ('000)             US$ ('000)              US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                93.99                    111.96                205.94
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        n/a                       n/a                  n/a
  Supervision                               84.21                      77.70               161.91
  ICR                                         5.62                     37.87                43.49
  Total                                    183.82                    227.52                411.35
Note: Figures for Identification/Preparation include Appraisal/Negotiation costs.

(d) Travel and Consultants (Trust Funds):

PHRD TF025495
       Stage of Project Cycle                               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            Travel             Consultants/Other           Total
                                          US$ ('000)             US$ ('000)              US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                10.95                      13.09               24.03
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        n/a                       n/a                 n/a
  Supervision                                 4.32                     20.68               25.00
  ICR                                         0.00                      0.00                0.00
  Total                                     15.26                      33.77               49.03
Note: Figures for Identification/Preparation include Appraisal/Negotiation costs.

PHRD TF029530
       Stage of Project Cycle                               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            Travel             Consultants/Other           Total
                                          US$ ('000)             US$ ('000)              US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                149.2                    176.21                325.41
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        n/a                       N/a                 n/a
  Supervision                                 7.22                      5.29                12.51
  ICR                                         0.00                      0.00                0.00
  Total                                    156.42                      181.5               337.92
Note: Figures for Identification/Preparation include Appraisal/negotiation costs.


(e) Total Costs: Bank Budget and Trust Funds
    Stage of Project Cycle                                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       Staff              Travel          Consultants/Other        Total
                                    US$ ('000)          US$ ('000)            US$ ('000)         US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            297.38          254.13                  301.26           852.77
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     n/a             n/a                    n/a              n/a
  Supervision                           177.50           95.75                  103.67           376.92
  ICR                                     38.98           5.62                   37.87             82.48
  Total                                 513.87          355.50                  442.80          1,312.17
Note: Figures for Identification/Preparation include Appraisal/negotiation costs.




                                                      - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Giugale, M., Lafourcade O., and Nguyen, V. (Editors at the World Bank). 2001. Mexico: A Comprehensive
    Development Agenda for the New Era. Washington, DC

Cercone, J. January 2003. "Personal Interviews with IMSS Authorities at Central and Local Levels". Conducted
    in Mexico City, Veracruz and Tabasco.


Mexico - Health System Reform Sector Adjustment Loan:

The World Bank. 1998. Mexico - Health System Reform Project (IMSS). President's Report No. P7223.
    Washington, DC.

The World Bank and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C. 1998. Loan Agreement for loan
    4364 - Mexico - Health System Reform Project (IMSS) ­ Sector Adjustment Loan. Washington, DC.

The World Bank and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C. 2000. First Amendment to the
    Loan Agreement for loan 4364 - Mexico - Health System Reform Project (IMSS) ­ Sector Adjustment Loan.
    Washington, DC.

The World Bank and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C. 2002. Second Amendment to the
    Loan Agreement for loan 436 - Mexico - Health System Reform Project (IMSS) ­ Sector Adjustment Loan.
    Washington, DC.

The World Bank and the United Mexican States. 1998. Guarantee Agreement for Loan 4364-ME - Mexico -
    Health System Reform Project (IMSS) ­ Sector Adjustment Loan. Washington, DC.

The World Bank. 1996-2002. Project Mission Reports and Aide-Memoires for Mexico - Health System Reform
    Project (IMSS) ­ Sector Adjustment Loan. Washington, DC.

Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Dirección de Prestaciones Médicas, Coordinación de Planeación y
    Desarrollo. 2002. Progress Report on the Health System Reform Sector Adjustment Loan Project (Proyecto
    de Ajuste Estructural para la Reforma del Sector Salud - IMSS). México, DF

The World Bank. 1996-2002. Other Project documents. Washington, DC.


Mexico - Health System Reform Technical Assistance Loan:

The World Bank. 1998. Mexico - Health System Reform Technical Assistance Loan Project. President's Report
    No. P7223. Washington, DC.

The World Bank and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C. 1998. Legal Agreement for Loan
    4367 - Mexico - Health System Reform Technical Assistance Loan Project. Washington, DC.

The World Bank and the United Mexican States. 1998. Guarantee Agreement for Loan 4367 - Mexico -
    Health System Reform Technical Assistance Loan Project. Washington, DC.

The World Bank. 1996-2002. Project Mission Reports and Aide-Memoires for Mexico - Health System Reform
    Technical Assistance Loan Project. Washington, DC.




                                                     - 40 -

The World Bank. 1996-2002. Other Project documents. Washington, DC.

The World Bank. 1996-2002. Other Project documents. Washington, DC.



PHRD Grants TF025495 and TF029530: List of studies, terms of reference and activities financed by the Grants
(1998-2001):

Technical Assistance

·        Technical assistance provided in the preparation of studies and seminars related to Heath Sector Reform:
(i) Analysis of the proposals presented by IMSS for the studies to be financed by the Grant; (ii) Supervision of the
preparation of the studies to be financed by the Grant; (iii) Preparation of an action plan and budget for the
seminars on Dissemination of the Health Reform to be financed by the Grant (Technical Assistance in the
preparation of studies and seminars for the Grant activities related to the Reform of Health Systems.

·        Technical Assistance provided to the Evaluation Committee of the technical proposals for the consultancy
"Development and implementation of an information system for hospitals"

Studies

·        Project Economic Evaluation
·        Study of Private Managed Care Market in Mexico
·        Diagnostic of the needs for training on management in the Social Security Institute of Mexico (IMSS)
·        Operational Manual for the Innovative Development Fund (IDF) to be implemented under the TA Loan.

·        Operational Manual on Environmental Impact to support decisions on selection and purchase of medical
equipment by the Medical Areas.
·        Design of a questionnaire to assess the quality of medical services delivered by IMSS in the Medical
Areas.
·        Study on Labor Market in Mexico: Analysis of the labor and salary history of the workers affiliated to
IMSS
·        Study on Financing of the Public Mexican Health Services

Preparation of Terms of Reference

·        Preparation of ToRs (terms of reference) for the studies for the implementation of the "Investment Fund
for the Development of the Integral Health Attention Model" (Fondo de Inversión para el Desarrollo del Modelo de
Atención Integral a la Salud)
·        Preparation of ToRs for the study on Technological Evaluation in Mexico
·        Preparation of ToRs for the development for the classification of patients through the Diagnostic Related
Group (DRGs) to be implemented in selected IMSS Hospitals.
·        Preparation of ToRs for the design and implementation of an improved information system for IMSS
hospitals
·        Preparation of ToRs for the development and consolidation of the decentralized medical areas in the
IMSS.
·        Preparation of ToRs for the diagnostic and implementation plan for an improved information system for
IMSS hospitals
·        Preparation of ToRs for preparation of a proposal for IMSS Reform

Courses, workshops and study tours




                                                        - 41 -

·        Workshop on regulating and monitoring managed care to look at experiences from the US and Chile
·        Study Tour to UK to gain exposure to new experiences on hospitals system and in preparation towards the
establishment of a twinning project between NHS (National Health Service of UK) and IMSS specialty hospitals
(of Mexico)
·        Study Tour to Barcelona, Spain to gain exposure on hospital administration and attend a seminar on
Health Sector Policy Reform in Latin American and the Caribbean Region
·        Courses and Seminars on Institutional Strengthening
·        Other courses related to health sector reform




                                                      - 42 -

Additional Annex 8. Supporting Data and Tables

                             Health Reform in Mexico and Bank Support
                                       A new Approach to the ICR
In principle, an identification of the optimal combination of efforts that generate a desired outcome in a
health reform process should result from lessons learned of Bank support to such processes in several
countries. While this ICR is not an intensive learning ICR, this ICR is designed as a contribution to that
exercise. A reform process is a combination of efforts over a period of time including those supported by
Bank operations. Project financed activities evolve in an environment determined by factors such as the
economic and fiscal situation of the country in question, the political leadership as well as the degree of
community participation, the particular characteristics of the health sector, etc. This ICR has been
designed with such holistic approach in mind, including stakeholder analysis and follow-up workshops, in
order to analyze Bank support to the reform process within the particular characteristics of the sector at
the time of project design and during its implementation.

This analysis is necessary in order to identify the combination of efforts from the TAL that in conjunction
with the policies supported by the SECAL produced the observed results in the health reform process in
Mexico. Our aim is to try to establish a relationship between the successes and failures of the Mexican
health reform process with the combination of activities supported by the TAL and their interaction with
sector policies in the SECAL, both in the presence of events outside the scope of the operations but that
influenced project design and implementation.

The ICR preparation process involved the analysis of issues of diverse nature: from the timeliness of
political decisions, to economic situations that enable or disable the implementation of strategies designed
to be supported by technical assistance, to the overall political and social climate of the country and its
institution(s). A detailed analysis of results obtained during the project's life, compared to initial
objectives and to project activities has been done, and then those are analyzed within the political and
socio-economic context present during the whole project cycle. Interviews structured in modules were
applied to a group of approximately 30 persons who have been involved in the health reform process in
Mexico in different capacities and results are compiled and analyzed for the ICR analysis presented here.




                                                         - 43 -

- 44 -

- 45 -

