Page  1
November 8, 2000
Mr. José Luis Flores Hernández
Director General
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. 
Tecoyotitla No.100, col. Florida
0130 México, D.F.
México
Mr. Carlos García Moreno
Director General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9
03100  México, D.F.
México
Re:
Loan 4364-ME (Health System Reform Sector 
Adjustment Loan) Amendment to the 
Loan 
Agreement
Dear Sirs: 
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Banco Nacional 
de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. (the Borrower) and to the 
Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States (the 
Guarantor) and the Bank, all dated September 14, 1998, with 
respect to the above-captioned Loan.  We are pleased to inform 
you of our agreement to amend said Loan Agreement as indicated 
in Attachment A to this letter (double-underlined text in such 
attachment represents language added by this amendment, and 
crossed-out text in such attachment represents language deleted 
by this amendment).  Consequently, as a result of this 
amendment, the Loan Agreement now hereby reads in its entirety 
as set forth in Attachment B to this letter.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment 
by signing and dating the three originals of this letter in the 
space provided below, and returning one to us.  This amendment 
shall enter into effect as of its date first above written, upon 
receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by 
you.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Eduardo Vélez Bustillo
Acting Director
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: 
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS
Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
Page  2
By /s/ José Luis Flores Hernández
By /s/ Carlos García 
Moreno
Authorized Representative
Authorized 
Representative
Date:
November 8, 2000
Date:
November 8, 2000
Attachment
LOAN NUMBER 4364-ME
Loan Agreement
(Health System Reform Sector Adjustment Loan)
between 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
Dated September 14 , 1998  
(as amended on November 8, 2000)
LOAN NUMBER 4364-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO 
NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Borrower), 
as amended on November 8, 2000. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 20, 
1998 from the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) describing a 
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
restructuring and development of the Guarantor’s health 
insurance and service delivery system (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Guarantor’s commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) dated 
September 14, 1998 between the Guarantor and the Bank, the 
Page  3
Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the 
Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other 
obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; 
(C)
on the basis, 
inter alia
, of the foregoing, the 
Bank decided in support of the Program to provide such 
assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches; 
(D)
the Guarantor requested to the Bank during the 
mid-term review of the Program held in May 2000 and during the 
visit of the Bank to the Guarantor in August 2000 that Loan 
Agreement be modified by (i) extending its Closing Date to June 
30, 2002 , and (ii) splitting the original second tranche of 
$350,000,000 into two tranches of $200,000,000 and $150,000,000 
each; and 
(E)
the Bank has accepted the proposal of the Guarantor 
stated in whereas (D) above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, 
dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997) with 
the modifications thereto set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read:
“ ‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in 
support of which the 
Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall 
otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall be 
made in the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 
2.02 of 
the Loan Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Loan from the Loan 
Account in accordance 
with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these General 
Conditions”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose 
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor shall prepare 
and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, 
the performance by the Guarantor and the Bank of 
their respective obligations under the 
Guarantee 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; 
and 
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as 
Page  4
modified above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, 
Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the 
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the 
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
“IDF” means the 
Fondo de Desarrollo Innovativo
(Innovative Development Fund), a fund within the SSHF (as 
hereinafter defined) and dedicated exclusively to the financing 
of medical care investments (in goods, infrastructure, training 
and research) made by IMSS (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“IDF Investment Program” means the three-year 
program setting forth investments to be financed by the IDF, 
which program was approved by the IMSS (as hereinafter defined) 
Consejo Técnico
 (Technical Council) as detailed in its 
Acta 
MMCCCXV (2315),
 Acuerdo
 no. 266/98 of May 20, 1998;
(d)
“IDF Operational Manual” means IMSS’ 
Manual 
Operativo para el Fondo de Desarrollo Innovativo
 (Operational 
Manual for the Innovative Development Fund), dated February 
1998;
(e)
“IMSS” means the Guarantor’s 
Instituto Mexicano del 
Seguro Social
 (Mexican Social Security Institute), a public 
agency with its own separate legal personality, governed by the 
terms of the Social Security Law (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
“Medical Area Unit” means any one of the IMSS 
decentralized health service provision units which acts as a 
managed care organization for IMSS beneficiaries in a given 
geographical area;
(g)
“Second Tranche Release Date” means the date on 
which the Bank sends the Borrower a notice to the effect that 
the conditions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of 
this Agreement have been met;
(h)
“SSHF” means the 
Fondo del Seguro Social para los 
Servicios de Salud
 (Social Security Health Fund), operated by 
and maintained within IMSS pursuant to, 
inter alia
, the SSHF 
Operational Guidelines (as hereinafter defined);
(i)
“SSHF Implementation Plan” means the plan for the 
operation of the SSHF in accordance with the terms of the SSHF 
Operational Guidelines;
(j)
“SSHF Operational Guidelines” means the guidelines 
for the operation of the SSHF (
Instructivo de Operación del 
Comité de Presupuesto del Fondo del Seguro Social para los 
Servicios de Salud
), which guidelines were approved by IMSS’ 
Consejo Técnico
 (Technical Council) pursuant to its 
Acta 
MMCCCXV 
(2315),
 Acuerdo
 no. 267/98 of May 20, 1998;
(k)
“Social Security Law” means the Guarantor’s 
Ley del 
Seguro Social
 (Social Security Law), published in the 
Guarantor’s 
Diario Oficial de la Federación
 (Official Gazette) 
on December 21, 1995, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
and
Page  5
(l)
“Specialty Hospitals” means IMSS’ tertiary-level 
hospitals that provide specialized medical services to IMSS 
beneficiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement, an amount equal to seven hundred million Dollars 
($700,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to 
furnishing to the Bank the first request for withdrawal from the 
Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank.  All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be 
deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.  The Borrower 
shall not allow any other amounts from any source to be 
deposited in the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) 
of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to use the 
proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant 
to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If the Bank 
shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so 
excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank:  (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to 
the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to 
the Bank upon such request shall be credited to the Loan Account 
for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account 
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from 
the Loan Account shall have reached the equivalent of 
$350,000,000, unless:
(i)
at least twelve months have passed since the 
Effective Date; and
(ii)
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement, after the mid-term 
review 
referred to in Section 3.01 (d) 
of the Guarantee Agreement, and based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank:  (A) with the progress 
achieved by the 
Guarantor in the 
carrying out of the Program; (B) that the macroeconomic 
policy framework of the Guarantor is 
consistent with the objectives of the 
Program; and (C) that the actions described in Schedule 3, 
paragraph A to this 
Agreement have been 
taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  If, 
after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have 
given notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor 
that the applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph 
have not been fulfilled and, within 90 days 
after such notice, such conditions 
continue to 
be unfulfilled, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and 
the Guarantor, cancel the unwithdrawn amount 
Page  6
of the Loan or any part thereof.
(e)
Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in 
paragraph (d) above, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan 
Account after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan 
withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of $550,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, 
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 (a) of 
the Guarantee Agreement, and based on evidence satisfactory to 
the Bank:  (A) with the progress achieved by the Guarantor in 
the carrying out of the Program; (B) that the macroeconomic 
policy framework of the Guarantor is consistent with the 
objectives of the Program; and (C) that the actions described in 
Schedule 3, paragraph B to this Agreement have been taken in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  If, after said 
exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the 
Borrower and the Guarantor that the applicable conditions 
referred to in this paragraph have not been fulfilled and, 
within 90 days after such notice, such conditions continue to be 
unfulfilled, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and 
the Guarantor, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any 
part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or 
such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall 
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a 
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent 
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
in arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal 
amount of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall enter into 
contractual arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the 
Bank, providing, 
inter alia
, for:  (i) the transfer to the 
Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the transfer by 
the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower 
shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of principal, 
interest and other charges on the Loan.  Except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce 
any provision of such contractual arrangements.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the 
contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) above in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall participate in the 
exchanges of views referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of the 
Guarantee Agreement, as well as in the mid-term review referred 
Page  7
to in Section 3.01 (d) of the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 3.03. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than four months after the date of the Bank’s 
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information 
concerning the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, 
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that 
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as 
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that the contractual arrangements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement have been executed;
(b)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Guarantor is consistent with the objectives of the Program; and
(c)
that the Bank is satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 (a) of the Guarantee 
Agreement, with the progress achieved by the Guarantor in the 
carrying out of the Program.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional 
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General 
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement have been duly 
authorized or ratified, and executed and delivered, by the 
Borrower and the Guarantor and are legally binding upon the 
Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with the terms of such 
contractual arrangements.
Section 5.03. The date December 14, 1998 is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The 
Director General
 of the Borrower is 
Page  8
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for 
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 
(MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 
(MCI)
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, 
S.N.C.
Tecoyotitla 100
Colonia Florida
01030 México, D.F.
México
Telex:
BNSOME 
01772619
BANOME 
01762072
Mexico City
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the 
proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to finance any of the 
following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a 
contract which any national or international financing 
institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or 
the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under 
another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or 
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification, 
Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to 
the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of 
Items
Page  9
112                     -
Alcoholic 
beverages
121                     -
Tobacco, 
unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                     -
Tobacco, 
manufactured (whether or 
not containing 
tobacco substitutes)
525                     -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious 
and semiprecious
stones, unworked 
or worked
718                  718.7
Nuclear reactors, 
and parts thereof; 
fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors
728                  728.43
Tobacco 
processing machinery
897                  897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals 
(except watches and watch
cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971                     -
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold
ores and 
concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or 
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for 
purposes of this paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous 
goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Guarantor or international 
agreements to which the Guarantor is a party);
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which 
is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or 
services supplied from, such territories or (b) on account of 
any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if 
such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter 
of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in 
by representatives of the Borrower, of the Guarantor or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower or the Guarantor having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to 
Page  10
remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have 
the following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each 
Interest Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn from the Loan Account in such Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the 
initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest 
Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed 
Amount, the first day of the Interest Period next following the 
Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into 
Disbursed Amounts. Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed 
Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate based on a 
floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed 
rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of 
this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each 
Disbursed Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including 
the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on each 
such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount 
until final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount 
shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in 
which a Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the 
Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
Page  11
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period 
in which each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, 
for such Interest Period, below 
(or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include 
such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, 
the equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for 
six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date 
for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest 
rate based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the 
repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed 
Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable 
on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, 
below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund 
single currency 
loans or portions thereof made 
by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the 
Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed 
Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and Borrower of LIBOR 
Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total 
Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this 
Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its 
borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than 
as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of the Loan 
not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower and the Guarantor of the new basis. The new basis 
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless 
the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification 
shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
Page  12
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, 
the Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in 
semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15, 
the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be payable on 
the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date following the 
Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment 
shall be one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
C, if any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount 
would, pursuant to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be 
payable after November 15, 2013, the Borrower shall also pay on 
said date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the 
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the 
amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 3
A. 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) (C) of this 
Agreement
1.
The Guarantor and IMSS have prepared a joint strategy for 
sound long-term management of IMSS’ liabilities.
2.
IMSS has prepared a strategy to allow beneficiaries to 
choose the Medical Area Unit from which they will obtain medical 
services.
3.
In compliance with regulations issued by IMSS to that 
effect, at least 200,000 new beneficiaries have, during the 
period beginning January 1, 1998 and ending no earlier than two 
months prior to the Second Tranche Release Date, enrolled in the 
IMSS social security voluntary regime (
régimen voluntario del 
Seguro Social
) referred to in Article 6.II of the Social 
Security Law or voluntarily enrolled in the IMSS social security 
obligatory regime (
régimen obligatorio del Seguro Social
) 
pursuant to the Second Title, Chapter IX of the Social Security 
Law.  For purposes of this paragraph, “new beneficiaries” 
excludes students (enrolling as such) and State or municipal 
workers, and the number of “new beneficiaries” is calculated on 
a net basis (thus excluding those who enrolled in, but 
subsequently dropped out of, the IMSS social security voluntary 
or obligatory regimes during the measurement period in 
question).
4.
IMSS has been, and continues to be, reforming its 
corporate structure in compliance with the terms and timetable 
of a restructuring plan issued by IMSS (which plan, 
inter alia
, 
emphasizes the decentralization of IMSS administration to, and 
greater autonomy for and competition among, Medical Area Units).
5.
(a)
At least fifteen Medical Area Units and five 
Specialty Hospitals have each prepared operational development 
plans, satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of reforming 
administration of such Medical Area Units and Specialty 
Hospitals.
(b)
Each of said fifteen Medical Area Units and five 
Specialty Hospitals is implementing its operational development 
plan referred to above, in accordance with such plan’s terms.
6.
As of a date no earlier than two months prior to the 
Page  13
Second Tranche Release Date: (a) at least 60% (sixty percent) of 
the funds included in the IDF Investment Program have been 
committed through specific contracts with suppliers or 
contractors for purposes set forth in the IDF Investment Program 
and by means consistent with the provisions of the IDF 
Operational Manual; and (b) at least half of said committed 
funds have already been disbursed from the IDF to said suppliers 
or contractors for said purposes.
7.
IMSS has been, and continues to be, improving the quality 
of its health care delivery services, particularly in at least 
five Medical Area Units in urban zones, in accordance with the 
terms of a quality assurance plan issued by IMSS and under the 
guidance of a quality assurance board operating within IMSS.
8.
IMSS has taken, and continues to take, actions aimed at 
improving accountability towards its beneficiaries, which 
actions include establishment of a consumer advisory board at 
the national level, use of client satisfaction surveys and 
acceptance of beneficiary representatives to act as formal 
contacts between IMSS and patients.
B. 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement
1.
The SSHF has been operating since its inception in a 
manner fully consistent with the SSHF Operational Guidelines, 
the SSHF Implementation Plan and applicable SSHF reserves and 
liabilities management regulations.
2.
IMSS has established and is operating a data base of IMSS 
beneficiaries, to serve as a mechanism for administering and 
monitoring:  (a) medical benefits paid by IMSS for its 
beneficiaries; and (b) health service provider choices made by 
such beneficiaries.
3.
IMSS has been allowing, and continues to allow (in 
compliance with regulations issued by IMSS to that effect), all 
IMSS beneficiaries in at least thirty Medical Area Units to 
choose their own primary care physician from among those IMSS 
physicians belonging to the beneficiaries’ Medical Area Unit.
4.
IMSS has been allowing, and continues to allow, IMSS 
beneficiaries to choose alternative non-IMSS insurance providers 
in order to be covered by public or private medical managed care 
provision schemes, all in compliance with regulations issued by 
IMSS to that effect (which regulations, 
inter alia
, 
satisfactorily protect beneficiaries’ rights by requiring 
minimum service quality and financial soundness standards).
5.
(a)
IMSS has signed and is implementing administrative 
arrangements with at least thirty Medical Area Units, whereby, 
inter alia
:
(i)
IMSS shall gradually allocate resources to 
such Medical Area Units through 
risk-adjusted capitation mechanisms;
(ii)
the performance of the Medical Area Units 
shall be assessed through specified 
evaluation 
systems; and
(iii)
incentives shall be established to reward 
improved Medical Area Unit health 
service 
delivery performance;
(b)
Such capitation mechanisms are being fully applied, 
Page  14
on a pilot basis, to reimburse primary care physicians (in at 
least five of said thirty Medical Area Units) for their health 
delivery services; and
(c)
IMSS has presented to the Bank an evaluation of its 
experience with the implementation of the administrative 
arrangements referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph.
6.
(a)
IMSS has signed and is implementing administrative 
arrangements, with at least five of its Specialty Hospitals, 
whereby, 
inter alia
, IMSS is fully allocating resources to such 
Specialty Hospitals through diagnosis related or patient 
classification mechanisms.
(b)
Fifteen IMSS hospitals (other than the five 
Specialty Hospitals mentioned in subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph) have been using, and continue to use, diagnosis 
related or patient classification systems for internal 
administrative purposes.
