Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 16520-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$60.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 5, 1997
Natural Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1997)
Currency Unit        =    Real (RS)
R$1.04            =     US$1.00
US$0.96            =     R$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGTEC    - Agricultural Technology Development Project
ARI        - Advanced Research Institutions
ARTDT    - Agricultural Research, Technology Development and Transfer
CAS        - Country Assistance Strategy
CGIAR      - Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research
CIAT       - International Center for Tropical Agriculture
CIFOR      - Center for International Forestry Research
CIMMYT   - International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
CIP        - International Potato Center
CNP        - National Research Center
CTP        - Project Technical Committees of the Competitive Grants System
DU         - EMBRAPA's Decentralized (Research) Units
EC         - Executive Committee
EMBRAPA - Brazilian Agricultural Research Enterprise
ES         - Executive Secretariat
ESDAR    - Environmentally Sustainable Development Agricultural Research and Extension Group
FINEP      - Studies and Projects Financing Agency
GDP        - Gross Domestic Product
GIS        - Geographic Information System
GOB        - Government of Brazil
ICB        - International Competitive Bidding
ICRAF      - International Center for Research in Agroforestry
IDB        - Inter-American Development Bank
IERR       - Internal Economic Rates of Return
IFPRI      - International Food Policy Research Institute
IPGRI      - International Plant Genetics Resources Institute
IPR        - Intellectual Property Rights
ISNAR      - International Service for National Agricultural Research
LABEX      - EMBRAPA's Foreign R&D Laboratory
M&E        - Monitoring and Evaluation
NAC        - National Advisory Council
NARS       - National Agricultural Research Systems
NCB        - National Competitive Bidding
NRM        - Natural Resource Management
PADCT    - Program to Support Scientific and Technological Development
R&D        - Research and Development
SNPA       - National Agricultural Research System
SRC        - State Research Centers
WTO        - World Trade Organization
Vice President    Shahid Javed Burki
Director          Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief    Constance Bernard
Task Manager      Uma Lele



Brazil
Agricultural Technology Development Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data ......................................................    1
Block 1: Project Description .................................................    2
1.    Project development objectives ............................................                                                                   2
2.   Project components ......................................................    2
3.  Benefits and target population ........................................ ....                                                                     2
4.     Institutional and implementation  arrangements ................................                                                               3
Block 2: Project Rationale ..................................................                                                                        4
5. CAS objectives supported by the project.                                                                                                          4
6. Main sector issues and government strategy.                                                                                                       4
7.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.                                                                              6
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.                                                                                        6
9.  Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies                                                                    7
10.  Lessons learned and  reflected in proposed project design  ........................                                                            7
11.   Indicators of borrower commitment and ownership  ............................                                                                 8
12. Value added of Bank support .................... .........................                                                                      8
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments .................................. .....    9
13. Economic Assessment ....................................................    9
14. Financial Assessment ....................................................    9
15. Technical Assessment ....................................................   10
16. Institutional Assessment ..................................................   10
17. Social Assessment .......................................................   10
18. Environmental Assessment ................................................   10
19. Participatory Approach ...................................................    11
20.  Sustainability ..........................................................  11
21. Critical Risks .... ......................................................   11
22. Possible Controversial Aspects .............................................    12
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions ...............................................   12
23. Effectiveness Conditions ..................................................   12
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies ........................................   12
List of Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Annex 6: Procurement and Distribution Arrangements
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8: Selected Documents and Data in Project Files
Annex 9: Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
Annex 10: Brazil At a Glance






Project Appraisal Documnent                                                                   Page I
Country: Brazil                                   Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
INTERNATIONAIL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATION
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country Department I
Project Appraisal Document
BRAZIL
Agricultural Technology Development Project
AGTEC
Date:                      May 5, 1997                                        El Draft        3   Final
Task Manager:              Uma Lele                    Division Chief: Constance Bernard
Project ID:                 BR-PE43873                  Sector:       Agriculture            POC: AA
Lending Instrument:         Specific Sector Investment   PTI:         |     Yes            [-]No
Project Financing Data                       E   Loan       El  Credit    Il  Guarantee  El          Other
fSpecifyj
Amount (UJS$m):                              US$60 million
.......................... .................................................................................................. .................. .......... .......................................................
Proposed Terms:                                 1   Multicurrency       a   Single currency
Grace period (years):        5 years            1   Standard Variable  El  Fixed            E        LIBOR-
based
Years to maturity:           15 years
Commitment fee:              0.75 % per annum on undisbursed balances.
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                      Local                        Foreign              Total
Government                                              27.7                             2.8              30.5
EMBRAPA                                                  8.7                             4.1              12.8
IBRD                                                    32.4                           27.6               60.0
Other (beneficiaries)                                   12.5                             4.2              16.7
Total                                                   81.3                            38.7             120.0
Borrower: Federative Republic of Brazil
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria (EMBRAPA)
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                          1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002
Annual    5.4    9.5   14.3   13.7   11.9    5.2
Cumulative     5.4   14.9   29.2   42.9   54.8   60.0
Retroactive financing up to US $6 million is agreed for eligible expenditures incurred 12 months prior to loan signing
under the Institutional Strengthening and Administration, Management Information Systems, and Monitoring and
Evaluation components.
Expected effective date:    August 31, 1997                            Closing date:       December 31, 2002



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 2
Country: Brazil                                  Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators): The project seeks to increase
efficiency and sustainability of resource use in the Brazilian National Agricultural Research System (SNPA) by: (i)
stimulating the transition in the SNPA from its current heavy reliance on public sector research carried out by the
national organization, Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecudria (EMBRAPA), to a more integrated and diversified
system of Agricultural Research Technology Development and Transfer (ARTDT) led by EMBRAPA; (ii) increasing
the role of clients in the definition of research and technology transfer priorities and implementation; (iii) refocusing
public sector research on quintessential public goods; and (iv) helping EMBRAPA to reorient its current structure to
address issues of decentralization and diversification of the SNPA.
2. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown). To
achieve these objectives, the project would finance a Competitive Grants System for agricultural research, development
and technology transfer; strengthening of research management through technical assistance, training, satellite
communications and international collaborations at the Federal level; and strengthening of research and technology
transfer activities at the State level; and overall monitoring and evaluation of the project.  The Institutional
Strengthening component will reinforce the ability of weaker institutions to participate in the Competitive Grants
System, thereby increasing opportunities for other players, e.g., farmers organizations, state research and extension
systems, to participate in technology design and transfer.
Component                             Category         Indicative        % of
Cost (US$M)            Total
I. Competitive Grants System                           Other (Research)             72.0           60.0
II. Institutional Strengthening                        Institution                  44.7           37.2
Building
III. Administration, Management Information Systems,   Project                       3.3             2.8
Monitoring and Evaluation                           Management
Total                       120.0          100.0
3. Benefits:
*   The project, by establishing a Competitive Grants System in Brazil, will catalyze the long-term transition of the
SNPA toward a diversified system of agricultural research and technology transfer.
*   The Competitive Grants System  will expand the role of the private sector, universities and farmers'
organizations, foster public-private partnerships and increase international collaboration with advanced
countries' research institutions.
*   The project funds will leverage a variety of EMBRAPA's programs (as well as those of the state research and
extension systems) to increase benefits of research to small farmers and natural resource management (NRM).
*   The role of the clients of research will increase in research priority setting and implementation.
*   Internal rates of return on agricultural research in Brazil have been estimated to be between 16% and 191%
(Annex 4). These benefits include increased agricultural productivity, employment opportunities, economic
growth, and improved resource management, which contribute to the sustainability of broad-based growth.
*   Without the project, the potential synergy through diversification of the research system and mobilization of
private resources for research and technology transfer will be small at a time when international science and
related institutional diversity is increasing rapidly at the global level.
Target population:
The project is targeted at the producers and consumers of agricultural research. Scientists and science administrators
will be trained in advanced methods of research and technology transfer, Intellectual Property Rights (IPR), Plant
Variety Protection legislation, World Trade Organization (WTO) rules, Biosafety Guidelines, and social and
management sciences.  Together, this training will increase their capacity to engage in public-private sector
collaboration, and accelerate technology transfer. Brazil's relatively developed agribusiness sector will benefit from a
stronger legal and regulatory framework and increased domestic capacity for establishing public-private partnerships.
Many of the nearly 4.3 million family farms, including the resource-poor farmers in the Northeast of Brazil, would
benefit from the multiplier effect of the technologies generated and adopted using EMBRAPA's own research, that of
thve state research and extension systems and universities. Future generations of Brazilians and global citizens will
benefit from improved resource management.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 3
Country: Brazil                                Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements (see Annex 2 for detailed implementation arrangements)
Project Implementation Period: Five years.
Executing Entities:
*  EMBRAPA, which is the legally designated coordinator of the SNPA, will be the project implementing agency.
*  National Advisory Council (NAC) of EMBRAPA, headed by the President of EMBRAPA, has been transformed
under the project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, into the NAC for the SNPA. The transformed NAC, chaired
by the Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Supply, will: i) define broad priorities of the SNPA and make
the SNPA flexible and responsive to the research and development challenges likely to be encountered by Brazil
over the next 15 to 20 years; ii) review research priorities; iii) mobilize and diversify sources of funding; iv) help
develop consensus to consolidate, and where necessary and appropriate strengthen, weaker elements of the SNPA;
v) provide final approval for the competitive grants recommended by the Executive Committee (EC); vi) modify
overall policies and programmatic approaches of competitive grants based on experience; and vii) develop broad
sociopolitical support for agricultural research.
*  The NAC Sub-Council, established under the project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and headed by the
President of EMBRAPA, will have day-to-day responsibilities on behalf of NAC and will work closely with the EC.
The NAC Sub-Council will also approve appointments of members of the EC.
*  The EC, established under the project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and headed by a Chairman whose
qualifications and terms of reference are satisfactory to the Bank, will manage the Competitive Grants System. The
Chairman of the EC will have overall coordinating responsibilities for project implementation. Each priority area
identified for research financing will have its own sub-Committees with a Chair.
*  EMBRAPA's existing Project Technical Committees (CTPs) for the specific areas of research, will manage the
project review process. These existing CTPs and the roster of external reviewers are being restructured to widen
and improve non-EMBRAPA representation.
.  Executive Secretariat (ES) will support the Chairman of the EC in project administration, financial management
and Project Information, Monitoring and Evaluation System.
A draft Operational Manual already agreed between EMBRAPA and the Bank forms the basis of the project's first
year's work program. The Annual Work Plan for the first year, also already agreed between EMBRAPA and the Bank,
for subsequent years will include a retroactive review of activities of the past year. Based on the information obtained
and lessons learned, the Annual Work Plan would define operational strategies for the next year.
Various departments of EMBRAPA responsible for interacting with EMBRAPA's 39 decentralized research units
(DUs), the state research and extension systems, and the remaining parts of the SNPA will implement the Institutional
Strengthening Component. The latter consists of the most essential investments in EMBRAPA's weaker DUs and the
state research and extension systems to enable them to compete in the Competitive Grants System, a satellite
communications system to link EMBRAPA's DUs often located in remote parts of the country, training, technical
assistance, studies, action plans, support for collaborative research with advanced countries' institutions including
establishment of a Brazilian laboratory in the US and involvement with the CGIAR centers.
Project Coordination: The project will be under the overall direction of the Chair of the EC, who will be responsible
for ensuring effective implementation of each of the project components, supported by the ES for all administrative,
financial management, monitoring, evaluation, accounting and auditing functions.
Project Oversight: The NAC, or its Sub-Council on behalf of NAC, will be responsible for reviewing progress of
project implementation consistent with the overall and project specific development objectives. The EC will ensure
technical consistency with project objectives and facilitate linkages with public and private ARTDT institutions,
universities and state research institutions. The Monitoring Evaluation and Management Information System will use
EMBRAPA's internal management information systems and controls. External audits and World Bank supervision will
complement EMBRAPA's internal controls. Every six months EMBRAPA will submit performance indicators to the
Bank. EMBRAPA and the Bank will together conduct a mid-term review of the project by September 2000, to evaluate
its progress and if necessary, reorient activities in the light of experience.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 4
Country: Brazil                                Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements: The ES will be responsible for maintaining the
project's financial accounts and for contracting audits every six months until approved by the Bank, and annual audits
thereafter, also to be carried out by auditors according to the terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to the
Bank.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Management Information Systems: The Bank's evaluation of EMBRAPA's internal
controls found that EMBRAPA possesses an excellent financial accounting system which can be adapted to the project's
operations. It uses the necessary techniques for the formulation and execution of the institutional budget. EMBRAPA
has had substantial prior experience in the use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) from previous Bank-financed
operations. SOE arrangements using Bank guidelines were agreed between EMBRAPA and the Bank. EMBRAPA
would use the standard bidding documents agreed between the Bank and SEAIN/MPO (International Affairs
Secretariat). The Bank of Brazil is the agreed depository of the Special Account. EMBRAPA's internal controls and
strategic planning processes were assessed to be of high quality with substantial human resources at both the managerial
and staff level. The project will build on these strong financial, accounting, administration, monitoring and evaluation
systems by increasing EMBRAPA's capacity to record, reflect, follow-up and report on its selected project portfolio. The
Monitoring, Evaluation and Management Information Systems will play an active role in the design of the annual work
plans, i.e., providing information on how many research proposals were received from which institutions, of what size
and quality, which proposals were approved, which rejected, the reasons why and the ameliorative actions needed to
achieve improved results. The composition, the membership and qualifications of the NAC, the NAC Sub-Council and
the EC have been established in a manner satisfactory to the Bank to manage the Research Sub-Projects. EMBRAPA
will consult with the Bank on the Annual Operating Plan in July, and present a satisfactory Annual Operating Plan by
October 31, of each year.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objectives supported by the project: The project is consistent with the  Document number and
Bank's CAS for Brazil which identifies structural reforms, poverty reduction and  date of latest CAS discussion:
environmental management as objectives. The Northeast region, which will be one of  14569-BR, June 29, 1995;
the beneficiaries of the project, holds the largest concentration of rural poor in both Progress Report, June 20, 1996
Brazil and Latin America generally. The Amazon region and the Central and
Southern parts of Brazil, which will also benefit from the project, contain some
major resource management challenges from a global perspective. The CAS
recommends specific anti-poverty policies and emphasizes the importance of
decentralization and shifting of expenditure and implementation responsibilities
from the Federal Government to the States, municipalities and local communities to
address the above three objectives.
6. Main sector issues and government strategy:
a)   Agricultural Productivity Growth as a Source of Economic Growth, Competitiveness and Environmental
Management:
*   The agricultural sector has been an important source of economic growth in Brazil, with an average growth rate of
4% per annum from 1950 to 1986. Between 1992 and 1995, the agricultural sector was the fastest growing sector
in the economy, accounting for 10% of GDP, (30% when agriculturally related industries are taken into account),
30% of the value of exports and 25% of employment.
*   Since 1986, sources of growth have changed from area expansion to yield increases, with nearly 87% of Brazilian
agricultural output growth coming from the latter. Over the 1989/1994 period, cropped area declined by 1.1%
while yields increased by 4.5%. The output mix has also changed significantly. Importance in production of export
crops, such as soybeans, and import substitutes, such as sugar grown in the South, has increased relative to the
food staples such as dry beans and cassava grown in the Northeast.
*   Extensive government intervention in agricultural input and output markets associated with macroeconomic
instability of the 1970s and 1980s, including price controls, price supports, directed and subsidized agricultural
credit, and massive public investments in irrigation and other infrastructure, contributed to the transformation of



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 5
Country: Brazil                                 Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Brazil's once smallholder agricultural system into a highly capitalized, export-oriented system dominated by
medium- and large-scale farms. Tax incentives for land clearing and massive public investments in infrastructure
encouraged agricultural expansion onto lands unfit for sustained crop or livestock activities.
Since 1994 the macroeconomic stability and reduced Government intervention in agricultural mnarkets associated
with Piano Real has posed several new challenges to the agricultural sector, namely: (i) to increase productivity as
a source of GDP and export growth in the face of increased international competition within the context of WTO
and MERCOSUL; (ii) to address the consequences of unbalanced regional growth, including the provision of basic
food needs and income for the urban and the rural poor; and (iii) to address NRM problems, resulting in part from
the past misdirected policies. Modernization of the research system is crucial to meeting the challenges of a
liberalized economy, and of environmental sustainability.
b) Rural Poverty Alleviation:
*   Agricultural research must also help alleviate poverty, given that Brazil has one of the most skewed distributions
of income in the developing world. In contrast to the capital-intensive and technologically advanced commercial
agriculture in the South, Southeast and Center-West, the North and Northeast Regions account for the largest
share of Brazilian agricultural labor including almost half of Brazil's farm units, more than 70% of which are
smallholdings of less than 10 hectares.
*   In 1991, the North and Northeast Regions together accounted for only 10% of Brazil's fertilizer sales. Also
reflecting the farm structure, the measures of mechanization are ten to twenty times lower for the North and
Northeast than for the rest of the country. Although rural poverty is concentrated in the North and Northeastern
regions, more than 75% of the farm households in the South also have less than 20 hectares. Many of these rural
households live at or below the poverty line.
c) The National Agricultural Research System:
*   The government has assigned high priority to agricultural research as a key element of agricultural sector
development. This is reflected in EMBRAPA's general strategy for 1995-98. It includes: (i) performance-based
allocation of resources to the DUs and programs; (ii) closer collaboration with other institutions in the SNPA; (iii)
establishment of new mechanisms for collaborations with and the promotion of the private sector resource
mobilization so that EMBRAPA can focus on the more strategic, long-term and interdisciplinary research; (iv)
increasing linkages with foreign and international centers undertaking cutting-edge research; and (v)
establishment of stronger downstream linkages with farmers' organizations, state research and extension services.
.   Yet private sector research activity is not reliably known. Nearly 90% of Brazil's annual agricultural research
expenditures are currently estimated to be in the public sector, and the remaining 10% by the private sector,
compared to about two-thirds by the private sector and one-third by the public sector in the U.S., and about half
and half in several other advanced industrial countries. Through a study of financing, the project will develop a
more reliable baseline for and the subsequent changes in the financing of the SNPA as a whole (see terms of
reference for studies in project files, Annex 8).
*   In 1995 EMBRAPA had 2,064 researchers, while the state research system had 2,395. Yet EMBRAPA's research
expenditures were US$550 million compared to the US$286 million of the state research systems, reflecting the
disparities in the salaries, working conditions and the support structure between the federal and the state
institutions.
.   Out of EMBRAPA's 39 DUs (13 of which are ecoregional centers, 15 commodity centers, 9 thematic and 2 service
centers) as many as 27 are in the South and Southeast regions. Only seven are in the Northeast. The state research
and extension systems mirror the situation, demonstrating great variability among them. Some states lack research
and extension systems altogether. In those situations EMBRAPA tends to be under considerable political pressure
to open new DUs.
*   Although since its inception in 1972, EMBRAPA's budget (in real terms) has increased almost eightfold, there has
been considerable year to year variation in the support to EMBRAPA. Besides, the fiscal decentralization,
introduced in 1988, restricts the level and the form of support EMBRAPA can provide to the weak state research
systems.
*   Universities have teaching and research faculty comparable in numbers to those of the federal and state research
systems combined. Their role will need to increase in a science-based agriculture. Currently, universities are an
underutilized resource.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 6
Country: Brazil                                  Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
*   EMBRAPA has a well-developed system of research priority-sctting, planning and implementation in place, with
13 distinct research programs. EMBRAPA already collaborates with nearly 70 institutions, including 40 domestic
universities in research and many North American, European and Japanese universities. In addition, in 1996 it
collaborated with 93 farmers' cooperatives, 53 producer organizations and 32 NGOs on issues related to the
generation and transfer of technology.
*   The state research and extension agencies have planning and implementing structures similar to those of
EMBRAPA but with wide variation in the extent or the quality of planning and execution. Coordination between
the state research and extension agencies and EMBRAPA, undertaken by a secretariat in EMBRAPA, is intended
to reconcile demand for research and technology transfer at the national and the state levels and avoid duplication.
However, the public research system has become overly bureaucratic and is not sufficiently responsive to the
rapidly changing external and internal circumstances.
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
*  The project would integrate and diversify financing and overall support for the operation of the SNPA through a
combination of a Competitive Grants System, studies and action plans.
*  The project encourages articulation of client demands and priority-setting through representation of a wide set of
interests of researchers and end-users, making research and technology transfer both more responsive and effective.
.  The project provides for private sector participation in agricultural research by (i) making the private sector eligible
to participate in competitive grants; (ii) supporting the enforceability of IPR and associated legislation through
training in IPR, biosafety and strengthening public-private partnerships; and (iii) increasing the share of publicly
funded research focused on public goods (by identifying priority areas in the Competitive Grants System). As a
result of these actions, EMBRAPA expects 15% of financing for research subprojects under the project to come
from the beneficiaries, and by the end of the project period to incrcase from 175 on-going public-private contracts at
present to 250 and allocate 30% of the national research operating budget to the Competitive Grants System (see
Annex 1).
*  Competitive Grants Systems have been successfully utilized in Brazil for general science and technology (i.e.
CNPq, FINEP, PADCT) for agricultural research to stimulate collaboration and broader institutional involvement
in research, including the private sector.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
a) Previous agricultural research projects in Brazil have concentrated their support on research, staff training, physical
facilities and equipment for EMBRAPA. Partnerships and competition with other public and private agricultural
R&D institutions were limited. The proposed project makes a qualitative difference by increasing the linkages
among domestic, regional and international R&D institutions, fostering strategic, applied and adaptive research,
and by bringing to bear a wide range of instruments for technology transfer in addition to the traditional forms of
extension, i.e., by involving farmer and community organizations.
b) With the exception of the first Bank-supported project, the previous Bank-supported agricultural research projects
in Brazil were geographically restricted to the North and Northeast Regions (with IDB supporting the rest of the
country); however, several factors indicated that the proposed project should have national coverage, namely:
*  the maturity of the 23-year-old SNPA coordinated by EMBRAPA;
*  the need to strengthen and adjust EMBRAPA's planning system and to promote linkages and balance between
the more developed southern institutions within Brazil and their weaker northern partners;
*  the need to minimize duplication of R&D activities, promoting complementarity; and
*  the need to increase competition, efficiency and consolidation among the R&D institutions.
c) An exclusive reliance on a Competitive Grants Systems for all research in Brazil is not desirable due to differing
regional capabilities and requirements. It would not allow GOB, through EMBRAPA, to support the development
of the emerging DUs and centers of excellence in the North, Northeast and specific Central areas of Brazil.
Additionally, it would inhibit EMBRAPA's ability to focus its own research on long-term public goods which are
not attractive to other R&D institutions.
d) EMBRAPA's new policy, in accordance with federal reforms, is to avoid earmarked resources, and instead link the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 7
Country: Brazil                                  Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
budget to performance at all levels (research center, research program, and staff). However, to ensure that more
research is stimulated on family farm development and NRM, up to 50% of the resources allocated to the
Competitive Grants System are targeted to these programs. The demand for that share as well as the quality and
nature of participation in ARTDT competition would be carefully monitored, and the program adjusted according to
the experience gained.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned)
Sector issue                                   Project              Latest Form
590
Ratings
(Bank-
financed
projects only)
IP     DO
Bank-financed
-Assisting GOB in the formulation of national research policy and  Agricultural Research I Project  S  S
in the establishment of the national network of research centers.   (Ln 1249/BR, completed)
-Strengthening agricultural research infrastructure and    Agricultural Research II Project   S      S
technology-generation to increase the supply of basic products in   (Ln 2016/BR, completed)
the North, Northeast and Center West Regions of Brazil.
-Strengthening EMBRAPA's capacity to generate and          Agricultural Research III Project  HS     HS
dissenminate technology for sustained agricultural development in  (Ln 3130/BR, completed)
the semi-arid Northeast region and in the legally defined Amazon
region.
-Support multi-sectoral Competitive Grants System to finance  Science, Research and Training  S      S
scientific research.                                       Project (Ln 3269/BR)
Other development agencies
-Strengthening the research infrastructure to increase the  IDB-financed PROCENSUL I
production and productivity of priority crops for the Central  (Ln 318-OC/BR and Ln 484-
South region.                                              SF/BR, completed)
-Accelerate the process of generation and transfer of technology    IDB-financed PROCENSUL II
to increase the production and productivity of agriculture  (Ln 139-OC/BR and 760-SF/BR,
products, and the process of integration of research with rural  completed)
extension.
-Provide conditions for a qualitative leap forward in agricultural   IDB-financed PROMOAGRO
research in order to increase the technological level of Brazilian    (Ln 67 1/OC-BR and 878 SF/BR,
agriculture and agroindustry in the South-central region.  ongoing)
10. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
a) OED's evaluation of Bank experience with agricultural research projects indicates satisfactory performance for most
projects, but identifies a number of areas for improvement, namely:
*  limited government comnmitment to adequately fund the system  and to adopt sound research management
principles; poor selection and clear identification of research problems or gaps;
*  limited external linkages of national agricultural research systems (NARS), both within and outside the country,
and with appropriate development partners to enhance the effectiveness of national and international research
programs;



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 8
Country: Brazil                                 Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
* limited linkage between research and the development/technology transfer phases to increase the rate of adoption
and reduce the adoption lags in the new or modified technology;
* need to foster procedures in NARS that enhance the relevance of research;
* lack of scientific rigor and quality of research due to ineffective scientific networking; and
* lack of external reviews, non-competitive funding of research and lack of linkages with centers of excellence.
b) The Bank's support to EMBRAPA, since its inception, with three agricultural research projects, indicates:
* technology must be generated in a participatoxy environment in order to ensure its relevance to beneficiaries;
* specific mechanisms are required for the identification of technological needs of small farmers as well as for the
transfer of the newly generated or adapted technologies to this group which may not otherwise benefit directly from
agricultural research;
* EMBRAPA's linkages and partnerships with other institutions have been modest;
* resources should be focused on research on long-term strategic or public goods types of issues such as NRM, post-
harvest technologies and integrated pest management.
c)  Project design takes into consideration these lessons. Both competition and partnerships between research
institutions would be encouraged through the establishment of a Competitive Grants System. The project would finance
strategic research (e.g. in biotechnology) in response to rapid changes in global science and research critical from a
social perspective based on specific demands made by the various interest groups in the society. The project will also
prepare EMBRAPA and state research institutions for increased public-private partnerships.
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
.   The Agricultural Research III Project is fully disbursed on schedule, with successful implementation of project
components (Section 9). Project preparation was completed in record time since the project was first identified in
late April 1996, with a high degree of borrower participation in the project design. EMBRAPA contracted national
and international technical assistance from advanced research institutions (ARIs) as inputs into key project
components such as biotechnology, public-private partnerships, and NRM. EMBRAPA has adopted major
administrative reforms consistent with project objectives and activities to avoid costly duplication of research
administrative tasks; and greater decentralization, autonomy and accountability of research units.
.   GOB has already made budgetary provisions for the proposed project.
*   EMBRAPA has already met all conditions of project effectiveness.
*  EMBRAPA has undertaken extensive consultation with potential project partners and beneficiaries involving
intensive Bank participation in these efforts, including a teleconference of over 750 institutions, chaired by the
President of EMBRAPA on November 28th 1996, and a major interministerial conference on public-private
partnerships in agricultural research co-sponsored by EMBRAPA and the Minister of Science and Technology on
December 4, 1996.
12. Value added of Bank support:
Bank support and EMBRAPA's discussion with Environmentally Sustainable Development and Agricultural Research
(ESDAR) and some of the best scientists in the institutions of advanced countries in project preparation has resulted in
the incorporation of worldwide experience on agricultural research at a time when Brazil is searching for alternative
approaches and embarking on a major transition in its NARS. The access to the Bank's global experience, at the
beginning of a major transition in the research system, has been viewed by EMBRAPA as more important than access to
Bank finance. The Bank's support to small farmers in the Northeastern and Southern Regions of Brazil through rural
poverty alleviation loans, and support to NRM and environmental protection throughout the country, facilitates linkages
between the research community and end-users of agricultural technology. Bank support of other research programs in
Brazil e.g., PADCT, has facilitated Government's coordination across sectors. The Bank has previous experience in
assisting countries in Latin America with the design and implementation of a Competitive Grants System for funding
agricultural research projects.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 9
Country: Brazil                                Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Block 3: Summary Project Preparation (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic Assessment        Cost-Benefit   [1        Cost-Effectiveness I     Other (Prior Ex-post
(See Annex 4)              | Analysis:               Analysis:               Analysis of Research)
*  Research is an inherently unpredictable activity, often with uncertain results. Sixty percent of the project resources
will be allocated to a Competitive Grants System to finance research in priority areas. The research demands in
some of these areas (e.g., family agriculture and NRM) have not been well articulated in the past. Due to the nature
of the Competitive Grants System the final portfolio of research projects that will be approved is presently
unknown. Besides, benefits of some of the research e.g., NRM , are not easy to quantify or to measure. Many
benefits are long-term. Currently, methodologies do not exist to estimate benefits of some of the research likely to
be funded. Because of this new approach to agricultural research, ex-ante rates of return for research projects
cannot be estimated for the project as a whole. It is possible, however, to evaluate representative projects for the
three main priority areas (family farms, NRM and advanced technologies) based on the recent experience. These
three areas comprise 75% of the funds for the Competitive Grants System. Internal economic rates of return
estimated on a typical model in each area, the details on which are provided in Annex 4, suggest IERRs of 26.7%
for a family farms project, 30% for an NRM project and 146% for an advanced technology project. A frequently
voiced concern in the Bank's OED evaluations of projects supporting NARS is that Bank projects do not build
capacity for analysis of economic impact. Brazil already has exceptional capacity at this level. The same OED
report observes that Brazilian agricultural research is the most evaluated in the developing world. Returns to past
research (mostly on commodities) have ranged between 16% and 191% (Annex 4). The Operational Manual
requires all proposals submitted for financing to contain expected economic impact, a requirement typically not
prevalent in similar competitive grants programs in the U.S., but which will be useful in monitoring the project's
likely economic impact once the research proposals have been selected.
.  The Competitive Grants System is chosen as being the least-cost, most efficient option for carrying out certain
kinds of research and technology transfer. This hypothesis will be tested in the project through the use of the
monitoring and evaluation system.
*  Some of the risks in financing such a research program are: (i) deterioration in the macroeconomic situation will
erode the government's support for research, (ii) EMBRAPA will not advertise the program sufficiently to receive
an adequate number of proposals, or (iii) the quality of the proposals may not be high. However, based on the
evidence to date these risks seem low. GOB is highly committed to the project. The demand for the Competitive
Grants System is intense, even from the remote parts of the North and the Northeast. To improve the quality of
proposals, the project provides resources to assist potential competitors in the preparation of grant proposals.
14. Financial Assessment (See Annex 5):
* During the life of the project, the Treasury will contribute US$30 million, or an average of US$6 million per year,
representing a 1.5% increase over the contributions it made to EMBRAPA's budget in 1996. The project would
spend on average an additional US$18 million per year in the purchase of various goods and services. Assuming an
average tax rate of 10% (and excluding the expenditures undertaken overseas) the tax benefits on remaining
expenditures would be accruable to federal or state governments. With this relatively conservative estimate of the
tax rate, the net increment in government contribution would be about 1% annually.
Contributions of institutions to research projects funded under the Competitive Grants System, in the case of
agribusinesses and biotechnology, would vary between 30% to 50% of the research projects. The Bank would
finance up to 75% of the total costs of approved research projects, with the overall average of Bank disbursement
being 50% (Annex 5). As the total Bank contribution would represent only about 2% of EMBRAPA's overall
annual budget, EMBRAPA would easily be able to sustain the project activities following loan disbursements.
EMBRAPA's increased operational costs are expected to be more than offset by savings from cost-sharing under the
grants program. EMBRAPA considers benefits of the new system sufficiently significant that it plans to allocate
30% of the national research operating budget of the SNPA to the Competitive Grants System established under the
project at the end of the project period.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 10
Country: Brazil                                Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
1S. Technical Assessment (See Annex 2):
EMBRAPA has a record of outstanding research in commodities and NRM. Yet EMBRAPA's and the SNPA's ability to
effectively transfer this technology to family farms has been variable. This is being addressed by opening up the research
system to competition through involvement of farmer organizations and the private sector. Similarly, demand for
research on NRM  tends not to be strongly articulated. To stimulate demand the project ensures institutional
representation of NRM interests in the NAC, the EC and the pertinent sub-committee. The project expects to improve
the technical content of research priorities and projects through competition and by widening the review process,
making it more transparent and accountable via the use of domestic and international reviewers, and by instituting a
strong monitoring and evaluation system.
16. Institutional Assessment (See Annex 2):
EMBRAPA is the third largest research system in the developing world. Due to its size and quality it is the most
important system in Latin America. Its effective use of domestic and international investments is reflected in the high
quality of its research on commodities and NRM. EMBRAPA's strong human capital and financial management
systems make it an effective organization. Yet, due to the changed global circumstances of increased competition and
rapidly advancing science, the Brazilian research system must now transform itself from a monopoly into a diversified
system of research and technology transfer in which a range of institutions (e.g., the private sector, universities, state
research and extension systems) are able to play a role. The project addresses this objective.
17. Social Assessment:
One of the priority research and development lines would be the generation and transfer of technology for poor,
smallholder farmers, particularly in the Northeast, and including female-headed households. To these programs 25% of
the Competitive Grants System is targeted. The project would emphasize the participatory generation of technologies by
involving conununity organizations to increase returns to labor and entrepreneurship, with a particular emphasis on
strong and active partnerships with the extension and input delivery services. In order to facilitate participation of
smallholders in the prioritization, selection, dissemination and evaluation of research, representatives of farm laborer,
smallholder and women's organizations would be included on the managing committees of the project (see
"Participatory Approach" below). In addition, linkages would be developed with the Bank-supported, ongoing poverty
projects in the Northeast and Southern Regions. All research projects funded under the project would include ex-ante
assessment of social impacts (see Environmental Assessment below).
18. Environmental Assessment:
*   The project is intended to make agricultural research more sensitive to the issues of environmental sustainability
and have a net positive effect on the environment.
* Twenty five percent of the Competitive Grants Systems is targeted to NRM. Although research projects tend to have
little direct environmental impact, various new agricultural technologies (when widely adopted) can create positive
or negative environmental impacts. All EMBRAPA projects require environmental assessment. ARTDT proposals
under AGTEC would similarly be routinely submitted to environmental and social impact assessments. The Project
Operational Manual specifies environmental screening procedures to be followed. The EC would be responsible for
environmental screening of proposals. It has environmental and social evaluation experts among its members.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 11
Country: Brazil                                Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
19. Participatory Approach
Implementation            Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups                              IS, CON, COL             IS, CON, COL
Intermediary NGOs                                             CON, COL               IS, CON, COL
Academic institutions                                       IS, CON, COL             IS, CON, COL
Local government                                            IS, CON, COL             IS, CON, COL
Farmers Associations                                        IS, CON, COL             IS, CON, COL
Private Sector, International and Advanced Countries           IS, CON                 iS, CON
Research Systems
[consultation (CON); collaboration (COL), and information sharing (IS)]
20. Sustainability
The project is consistent with GOB's approach to scientific, technological, and rural development which supports the
utilization of public and private co-financing of demand-led R&D activities, reducing the current high degree of
dependence of the SNPA on the resources from the federal budget and improving partnership among R&D staff and
institutions. On an annual basis, the Bank funding constitutes only 2 percent of EMBRAPA's budget. EMBRAPA
expects to leverage substantial resources from the private sector and producer organizations; therefore, financial
sustainability is unlikely to be an issue.
Additional measures to increase project sustainability include:
*  improved participatory mechanisms for setting priorities, incorporating representatives of the small farmers and
their associations, other research users, the private sector, etc. with a view to strengthening the sociopolitical and
scientific constituencies for research and technology transfer, and
.  strong participation of public and private R&D institutions, including NGOs, in project implementation.
21. Critical Risks:
Risk               Risk               Risk Minimization Measures
Ratine
Project outputs   * Legal framework not     Low        . IPR legislation is already passed, biosafety
to development    adequate to promote and                guidelines are in place and Plant Variety Protection
objectives:      protect private sector                  legislation is likely to pass soon. The project would
research;                              support the legal training and implementation
capacity required to provide an effective institutional
framework for protection of property rights, and
enhancement of public-private partnerships.
* Number of proposals      Low        * Teleconferences, workshops, seminars and other
submitted too small to create         extensive diffusion campaigns to promote AGTEC
increased competition or              by EMBRAPA has already generated strong demand
opportunities for                     for the project in the Brazilian agricultural research
collaboration;                        community including universities, state research
institutions, the private sector as well as the weak
elements of the research system. Project would
devote resources to stimulate participation in the
Competitive Grants System, and would strengthen
EMBRAPA's own DUs and state research systems to
encourage greater competitiveness.
Project        . Research proposals not     Low        . The research community would be drawn into the
components to    oriented toward priority               review process of the proposals through reforms in
outputs:        thematic areas;                         the composition and qualifications of many of the
committees. They and users of research would decide
which grants would be financed. Project would
include funds to promote research activities (through



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 12
Country: Brazil                                 Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
workshops, seminars, training and technical
assistance) in thematic areas (such as small farm
development), or from research centers (for instance
in the North and the Northeast) if allocation goals
(25% of research grants) are not met.
* Participation of other    Low          Selection of members of NAC, EC and CTPs ensures
agencies is not effective;             broad and rotating participation. Full compensation
for committee members and reviewers provides
incentives for performance. Priority will be given to
grants that where appropriate include partnerships
among institutions.
* Extension services unable to  Medium    * Transfer mechanisms would be diversified to include
transfer research due to               farmers' organizations and other private sector
budget cuts;                           intermediaries. The financing study would explore
new mechanisms for a more sustainable financing of
* Farmer organizations are              the ARTDT system.
weak where technology
transfer is most needed e.g.,
Northeast.
Overall Risk Rating:                         Low
22. Possible Controversial Aspects:
*   No controversial aspects have been detected or are foreseen.
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Effectivenes Conditions:
*   Adoption by EMBRAPA of the Project Operational Manual already agreed between EMBRAPA and the Bank.
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Umas  mM  Kharas
Task Manager                                                    icting Country Manager



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 13
Country: Brazil                                  Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Annex 1
Brazil
Agricultural Technology Development Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions and
_____ _______________ __    Supervision     Risks
CAS Obiective                                                                    Assumptions
1. Supporting structural    1. Proportion of Agricultural    1. Surveys of agricultural   - Increased efficiency of public
reforms                  Research carried out by private  research and data base  spending improves economic
sector and state research and  managed by EMBRAPA       growth;
extension systems and farmers'  and other actors.       - improved productivity leads
organizations.                                          to higher incomes for small
farmers.
2 Poverty reduction      2. Adoption by small farmers of  2. Surveys of resource  - improved research on
productivity enhancing        management institutions.   environmental management
technology transferred under                            enhances sustainability.
the project.                                            Risks
3. Consolidation of      3. Adoption of improved       3. Surveys in targeted    - current positive investment
environment/ natural     resource management           small farner areas.       climate not maintained.
resources management    technologies transferred under                           - private sector and other
the project.                                            actors do not respond.
- poor weather and/or low
prices neutralize income effect
_____=_=__=____________-                                of improved  productivity.
Project Development                                                              Assumptions
Obiectives
1. Stimulating transition    la. % of financing of     la. Project MIS, biannual   - increased competitiveness
in SNPA to a more        Competitive Grants System     progress reports;         increases efficiency in
integrated and diversified   coming from beneficiaries;                          research.
system of Agricultural                                                           - closer links to farmers
Research, Technology     lb. Number of public/private    lb. Project MIS, biannual  increases the potential on-
Development and          partnership contracts signed;    progress reports.      farm returns to research.
Transfer (ARTDT) led by
EMBRAPA                  Ic. State research contributions                        Risks
to competitive grants in funded
projects (R$m.);                                        - legal framework not
adequate to promote and
Id. % of EMBRAPA non-                                  protect private sector research;
budget revenues through sale of                         - number of proposals
products, processes and                                 submitted too small to create
services, including                                    increased competition or
collaborations and grants;                              opportunities for
collaboration.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 14
Country: Brazil                                  Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
le. % of resources from
Competitive Grants System
allocated to institutions other
than EMBRAPA (base period
1997);
If. increase in % of projects led
by institutions other than
EMBRAPA through
competitive grants;
1g. increase in % of projects
implemented by two or more
institutions through competitive
grants;
lh. Number of universities
collaborating with EMBRAPA;
li. Number of cooperatives
participating in R&D activities;
lj. Number of farmers'
organizations participating in
R&D activities;
1k. Number of NGOs
participating in R&D activities;
11. Number of scientific and
extension publications
originated from supported
grants.
2. Increase role of clients   2a. Establishment and    2. Formation of NAC Sub-
in the definition of     operation of participatory fora    Council and EC, minutes
research and technology    (NAC, EC) in project        of meetings, biannual
transfer priorities and  implementation, variety of    progress reports, and
implementation;          institutions and stakeholder  interviews with NAC and
groups represented on NAC and  EC members, reviewers of
EC (roster of participants and    project proposals and other
frequency of meetings);       stakeholder representatives
during supervision
missions, at mid-term
review, and at project
completion;
3. Refocus of public sector  3a. Annual operating budgets to  3. Project MIS, biannual
research on quintessential  research on small farm     progress reports;
public goods (e.g.       development programs by
research on family farms,  ENMRAPA for SNPA over its
NRM and upstream         1996 allocations for family
technology activities not   farm development programs
attractive to the private    (R$m.);
sector);



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 15
Country: Brazil                                 Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
3b. Annual operating budgets to
research on natural resources
management by EMBRAPA for
SNPA over its 1996 allocations
for natural resources program
(R$m.);
3c. Annual operating budgets to
research on biotechnology
development by EMBRAPA for
SNPA over its 1996 allocations
for biotechnology program
(R$m.);
4. Help EMBRAPA to       4a. % of EMBRAPA's national  4. EMBRAPA's annual
reorient its current     operational budget allocated to   budget and operational
structure to address issues  competitive grants;       plans.
of decentralization and
diversification of the
SNPA.
4b. EMBRAPA's staff support
to state research systems
(RSm.).
Proiect Outputs                                                                  Assumptions
1. Research projects;    1. Number of research projects;   Ito 9. Project MIS,   - farmer organizations and
biannual progress reports.  extension services transfer
2. Trained DU staff;     2. Number of EMBRAPA staff                              technology.
trained;                                                -grant program improves
allocation of resources and
3. Improved DU           3. Number of DUs supported                              increases efficiency of
infrastructure (including    with infrastructure and                             allocated resources.
satellite communications);  equipment;                                           -quality proposals will be
submitted to Competitive
4. Trained DU and SRC    4. Number of DU and SRC staff                           Grants System.
staff in IPR, Plant Variety  trained in IPR;
Protection, biosafety,                                                           Risks
WTO rules and                                                                    - research proposals not
contracting with private                                                         oriented toward priority
sector;                                                                          thematic areas;
- participation of other
5. Staff exchanges and   5. Number of staff exchanges                            agencies is not effective;
study tours with ARIs;   and study tours with ARIs;                              - extension services unable to
transfer research due to budget
6. Strategic studies on  6. Studies completed;                                   cuts.
Financing of Agricultural                                                        - farmers organizations are
Research, Restructuring of                                                       weak where technology
EMBRAPA's basic seed                                                             transfer is most needed, e.g.,
production service,                                                              in the Northeast.
Design of M&E System,
Human Resources
Development,



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 16
Country: Brazil                                 Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Agribusiness strategy and
Review of Priority
Setting;
7. Number of SRC staff trained;
7. Trained SRC staff,
8. Number of SRCs supported;
8. Improved SRC
infrastructure;
9. MIS operational and
9. SNPA and project      providing information required.
database and MIS.
Proiect Comwonents                                                               Assumptions
1. Competitive Grants    I to 7. Project disbursements  1 to 7. Bank and Borrower  - Good project administration
System for ARTDT;        against appropriate categories.   disbursement records,
biannual progress reports.  -Participation of other
2. Strengthen research                                                           institutions.
management and ongoing                                                           Risks
decentralization in                                                              -Budget constraints;
EMBRAPA's DUs;                                                                   - Other institutions do not
participate;
3. Strengthen and reorient                                                       - EMBRAPA does not
public-private                                                                   sufficiently advertise the
partnerships;                                                                    Competitive Grants System.
4. Strengthen
international research
collaboration;
5. Support strategic
studies and development
of action plans;
6. Strengthen research
and technology transfer
activity at State level;
7. Project Administration,
Management Information
Systems, Monitoring and
Evaluation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 17
Country: Brazil                                 Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Brazil
Agricultural Technology Development Project
Key Quantitative Indicators
BASE PERIOD    MID-TERM          END
Project Development Objectives                 (1996)          (2000)       (2002)
la. % of financing for the Competitive Grants System coming          0              5          14
from beneficiaries
lb. Number of public/private partnership contracts signed          175            200         250
lc. State research contributions to competitive grants in            0              3           7
funded projects (RS m.)
Id. % of EMBRAPA's non-budget revenues through sale of               7             12          15
products, processes and services, including collaborations
and grants
le. % of resources from Competitive Grants System allocated         16             25          33
to institutions other than EMBRAPA (base period 1997)
If. Increase in the % of projects led by institutions other than     0             10          30
EMBRAPA through competitive grants (base period 1997)_
lg. Increase in the % of projects implemented by two or more         0             10          30
institutions through competitive grants
lh. Number of universities collaborating with EMBRAPA               40             48          60
Ii. Number of cooperatives participating in R&D activities          93            125         186
lj. Number of farmers' organizations participating in R&D           53             71         106
activities
1k. Number of NGOs participating in R&D activities                  32             43          64
11. Number of scientific and extension publications                  0             80         400
originating
from supported grants
3a. Annual operating budgets to research on small farm
development programs (R$ m.) by EMBRAPA for SNPA                 1.2          4.822       4.82
over its 1996 allocations for family farm development
programs'_
3b. Annual operating budgets to research on natural resource
management (R$ m.) by EMBRAPA for SNPA over its                 3.0           6.52        9.62
1996 allocations for natural resources program'
3c. Annual operating budgets to research on advanced                1.6           4. 12       5.22
technology development (R$ i.) by EMBRAPA for SNPA
over its 1996 allocations for biotechnology program'
4a: % of EMBRAPA's national operational budget allocated             0             10          30
to competitive grants
4b. EMBRAPA's staff support to state research systems                9              6           2
(R$ million)
Annual operating budgets for research do not include staff salaries, research-related investments or operations and
maintenance.
2 Includes Bank funds targeted to the program annually.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 18
Country: Brazil                                 Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Project Outputs3                    BASE PERIOD   MID-TERM           END
(1996)         (2000)       (2002)
2. Number of EMBRAPA staff trained
_ Foreign Ph.D.                                                     0              0          18
*  Local Ph.D.                                                      0              3          18
*  Post Doctorate                                                   0              8          15
*  Local M.S.                                                       0              6          13
3. Number of DUs supported with infrastructure/equipment            0              5          20
4. Number of DU and SRC staff given long-term training in
IPR                                                               2              4           6
5. Number of scientists placed on long-term assignments in
advanced foreign research institutions                            0              4           6
7. Number of SRC staff trained
.  Foreign Ph.D.                                                    0              0           5
*  Local Ph.D.                                                      0              4          13
  Post Doctorate                                                   0              1           2
.  Local M.S.                                                       0             20          80
8. Number of SRCs supported with infrastructure/equipment           0              3          10
3Project Outputs Indicator 1 is for monitoring the Bank's predetermined goals, indicators 6 and 9 are non-quantitative.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 19
Country: Brazil                                Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Annex 2
Brazil
Agricultural Technology Development Project
Detailed Project Description
PROJECT COMPONENT 1: THE COMPETITIVE GRANTS SYSTEM: US$72.0 million (total cost of
component)
The Competitive Grants System is designed to promote high quality research and technology transfer in five priority
areas:
*  family farm development,
*  advanced technologies (including biotechnology),
*  natural resource management,
*  agribusiness, and
*  previously unanticipated strategic areas of research.
The objectives of the Competitive Grants System are to: (a) increase the allocative efficiency of funds for agricultural
research and technology transfer; (b) increase the quality of agricultural research and technology transfer; (c) foster
multidisciplinary and multi-institutional interactions among members of the SNPA; (d) increase funding opportunities
for all professionals in the SNPA; (e) increase the relevance of agricultural research and technology transfer by making
it client oriented; and (f) increase specialization and diversification of ARTDT. The competitive grants component will
fund up to 75% of the grants (i.e., Research Subprojects) approved, with the remaining 25% financed by a combination
of EMBRAPA, treasury and beneficiary contributions. These grants would finance research, development and
technology transfer in the five priority areas. The target allocations would be 25% of funds for family farm
development; 25% of funds for advanced technologies, 25% for NRM and 15% for agribusiness. The remaining 10% of
funds would be reserved for strategic (previously unanticipated) geographic or thematic research and for financing the
preparation of grants to be submitted for competition in AGTEC. If a sufficient number of good proposals are not
received, a variety of stimulative actions listed below would be taken to improve the quality of proposals. The overall
average of Bank disbursements will be 50%.
To operate the Competitive Grants System and Institutional Strengthening component of the project (see below) the
project's structure would consist of: 1) National Advisory Council (NAC) with a Project Sub-Council; 2) Executive
Committee (EC) supported by an Executive Secretary (ES) and a Secretariat for project support; and 3) Sub-Committees
for program areas supported by ad-hoc reviewers.
National Advisory Council
* The current NAC of EMBRAPA has been transformed into the NAC for the SNPA to be chaired by the Secretary
General of Agriculture, second in command of the Ministry of Agriculture with a Sub-Council being established
for AGTEC. The latter would be chaired by the President of EMBRAPA. The transformed NAC is proposed to
have a broad representation of interest groups, e.g., the potential beneficiaries and funders of agricultural research
and technology transfer (small and large farmers, agribusiness, environmental, consumer and international trade
interests) and the potential suppliers of research including outstanding scientists, representatives of universities
and state research and extension systems. The NAC would meet at least twice a year and the NAC Sub-Council
(that will act on behalf of NAC) more frequently if necessary, particularly in the initial period when the program
policies are being established and the program is being developed. The NAC might solicit support from high level
international expertise from time to time. It may organize seminars, meetings and consultations in specific areas to
address specific challenges, e.g., on key global trends, international trade, biodiversity management, IPR, NRM.
The NAC and the NAC Sub-Council for AGTEC would have formal legal status.



Project Appraisal Documnent                                                               Page 20
Country: Brazil                                 Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
*   The purpose of the NAC is to set the direction for SNPA in a participatory manner by involving the users of
research in the definition of the evolution of the SNPA and make the entire system highly responsive and flexible
to meet the research and development challenges for the next 15 to 20 years. The NAC will i) review research
priorities; ii) mobilize and diversify sources of funding; iii) help strengthen weaker elements of the SNPA
including particularly the technology transfer aspects for family farms and resource management projects; iv)
provide final approval for the Research Subprojects recommended by the EC; v) approve members of the EC
nominated by the President of EMBRAPA; and vi) develop broad sociopolitical support for agricultural research.
*   The NAC Sub-Council will: i) modify policies of the Competitive Grants System based on the experience; ii) assess
progress of AGTEC; and iii) oversee the implementation of ARTDT projects.
Executive Committee
*   The EC is headed by a full time Chairman, supported by an ES, and consisting of up to 9 members (including the
Chairman). The EC Chairman is a representative of EMBRAPA's Executive Directorate appointed by the President
of EMBRAPA, and would be executive secretary of the NAC. He/she would be a respected scientist with a proven
track record as a researcher and manager as well as an intellectual leader and catalyst for establishing research
partnerships both within and outside Brazil. He/she would serve as an ex-officio member and secretary of the
NAC.
*   Members of the EC would be recognized professional leaders with considerable experience in research or
technology transfer, representing a broad set of relevant fields and diversity of institutional interests, including
particularly the insufficiently articulated demand side of research such as family farms, consumer preferences and
NRM. The members would be available to the Chairman on call as necessary for meetings, and would serve two-
year terms renewable for one term. Their time dedicated to committee work would be compensated fully to ensure a
high level of input and responsiveness.
*   The EC would: i) translate the research demands identified and prioritized by the NAC into research programs; ii)
manage the review process ensuring its transparency; iii) appoint subcommittees for reviews; iv) evaluate the
scientific merits of proposals; v) rank and recommend proposals for funding; vi) monitor the flow of funds; vii)
oversee monitoring and evaluation of AGTEC and grants; viii) prepare a roster of national and international
reviewers; and ix) advertise the request for research, development and/or technology transfer proposals for the
priority topics. The EC would coordinate its research priority-setting procedures with those existing in PADCT and
draw on the experience of other Competitive Grants System within and outside Brazil (CNPq, PADCT, FINEP),
and the National Research Initiative in the U.S. to design and improve the Competitive Grants System.
*   The EC and the ES would be the main contacts for the Bank in project implementation. The EC and the ES would
prepare an Annual Work Plan, including budget, for all work under its supervision, along with annual financial
statements and contract of the required technical assistance (national or international) for the implementation of a
supervision, monitoring and evaluation system for the Competitive Grants System. It will also include the
preparation of a project perforrnance report to be the basis for a comprehensive Mid-Term Review in September
2000 as well as an evaluation of the project and other technical assistance to support the implementation of the
project.
Sub-Committees
*   Each area of research would have one or more Sub-Committees (CTPs) with a designated chair. In the areas in
which EMBRAPA CTPs already exist, they would become CTPs with modifications in the composition of their
membership, scope of work and terms of reference as necessary. In other areas of research not well covered by
EMBRAPA's programs, new CTPs would be established. The CTPs would have a broad representation of interests
(SNPA, users of research products, etc.). Members of the CTPs would serve for two years renewable for one term.
The CTPs would: i) submit the competitive grants proposals to the ad-hoc reviewers; ii) evaluate the technical
financial merit of the proposals based on comments from the ad-hoc reviewers; iii) prepare rankings of
recommended projects, projects recommended with observations and projects not recommended, and submit these
rankings to the EC; iv) prepare the terms of reference for the calls for proposals for each area of research; v) set the
criteria for review of proposals for each research area, according to the particular characteristics of the area; vi) for
each research area, indicate the specific features of the proposals to be supported; vii) nominate professionals in
each particular area of research for the roster of ad hoc reviewers; and viii) suggest changes to AGTEC's
operational instrnments. If the EC decides to overturn the recommendations of the ad hoc reviewers, and the CTPs,
a written report containing the reasons for the overturn would be submitted to the NAC.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 21
Country: Brazil                                Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
The ES would receive all proposals and check that all required documentation has been submitted. The CTPs for each
thematic area would then send each qualified proposal to one or two external reviewers for technical evaluation. The
reviewers would return the proposals and technical evaluations to the CTPs for review. The CTPs would rank the
proposals based on a scoring system to be specified in the Project Operational Manual and submit the ranked proposals
to the EC which would review the rankings, approve or disapprove the suggested awards, adjust the allocation of funds
according to the quantity and quality of proposals received and then pass their decision for award to the NAC for final
approval. The ES would then carry out all administrative procedures associated with managing the disbursement of the
grant, monitoring utilization of grant funds and managing dissemination of completed research.
Preproposal grants for the preparation of grants up to US$10,000 would be given for the aggregate of 2.5% of the total
grant allocation each year. Preproposal grants could be given for any of the five priority areas. The approval of
preproposal grants is neither a necessary nor a sufficient condition for receiving subsequent larger project grants.
Regardless of receipt of preproposal grants each competitive grants proposal will be reviewed on its own merit.
Preference would be given in the allocation of preproposal grants to i) institutions with relatively weak capacity to
participate in general competition and ii) large multidisciplinary research proposals which require greater preparation in
terms of methodologies and research partners. The Chair of the EC in consultation with the EC and, as necessary,
respective CTPs would undertake quick reviews of preproposals, and would have the final authority to recommend
preproposal grants.
Small grants of between US$25,000 and US$40,000 would be given generally for discreet, disciplinary projects with a
relatively quick payoff. These grant proposals will require a minimum of two reviews, one from within the EC and one
from the CTP and will be disposed of in less than three months from the deadline. Up to 30 % of the resources in each
of the categories may be allocated to small grant proposals.
Large Grants of disciplinary and multidisciplinary research of over US$40,000 and up to US$500,000 will require a
minimum of two reviews from outside the CTPs. These grants would be for a duration of one to three years. Large
grants would support (but would not be confined to) ARTDT projects with long gestation lags and requiring a
multidisciplinary input. Multiyear projects would be peer reviewed annually with disbursement of remaining funds
contingent on approval of progress reports by the EC. The Bank would do a prior review of a total of three projects in
the small and large grant category at the commencement of the Competitive Grants System after projects are approved
and grants are announced, and would review ex-post all proposals of US$ 40,000 or more on a random basis.
Under exceptional circumstances grants of over US$500,000 might be given after prior review by the Bank.
The size and duration of grants would be reviewed based on the experience generated in the previous years. The
allocations of funds among the five priority areas are expected targets; actual allocations would result solely from the
quality of proposals as ranked according to a clearly defined scoring system agreed between EMBRAPA and the Bank
during negotiations and to be included in the Operational Manual. If the targets for any priority area cannot be met
during any year because of a lack of quality proposals, remedial measures (see below) would be taken. In the process of
judging the scientific merit of any proposal for grant support, the following criteria, among others, will have to be met:
*  relevance of the proposal in the priority areas defined by the EC;
*  basic capacity of the proponent to do the proposed activities, i.e., level of experience, sound technical approach, and
facilities to do the work;
*  the extent of logistical support from the institutions in which they operate;
*  probability of successful outcome and intrinsic merit of the proposal, i.e., will the results serve as the basis for
improved technology or as a solution for environmental problems that can be applied at the farm level?;
*  evidence that completing the project will strengthen capacity of the proposer in the professional area and stimulate
further related work, education, and development of manpower in agricultural sciences or social sciences related to
agriculture;
*  the extent to which the proposals develop institutional or human capacity, panicularly in the areas of research or
regions in which research is of high priority, e.g., by establishing partnerships with weaker institutions or in priority
regions;
*  the extent to which the proposals mobilize additional resources;



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 22
Country: Brazil                                 Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
* the expected impact on family farms and NRM; and
*  the extent to which the proposals foster partnerships.
As necessary, all grants could include short-term training and some critical laboratory and other equipment. Targeted
long-term training would be provided under the institutional strengthening component.
The NAC and the EC would use the information provided by the monitoring system to identify areas in which the
number and quality of the proposals were insufficient relative to the target allocations so that remedial measures to
foster additional high quality proposals could be taken, particularly but not confined to addressing the problems of
weaker institutions and parts of the country with social or environmental concerns. Examples of such measures are:
*  seminars devoted to specific topics involving domestic and international experts and potential researchers to
stimulate interest;
*  training and technical assistance in proposal writing;
*  fostering partnerships between strong and weak institutions;
*  allocation of resources to weak institutions to strengthen their participation, e.g., computers, E-mail connections,
etc.; and
*  integrating long-term  degree training needs into the training proposals and the institutional strengthening
component.
Eligibility Criteria
All Brazilian research and technology transfer institutions belonging to the SNPA will be eligible to compete for support
in priority areas. Research and technology transfer institutions not belonging to the SNPA will be eligible to compete in
partnership with at least one institution belonging to the SNPA.
Beneficiary Contributions
The shares of the costs to be financed by participants would be: members of the SNPA other than EMBRAPA no less
than 10%/o, EMBRAPA no less than 15%, and private firms between 20% and 50% depending on their size and financial
ability. Small farm organizations may contribute resources in the form of own labor. The additional funds would enable
EMBRAPA to release its own scarce resources to finance research in public goods, e.g., family farms and NRM. Overall
target for non public sector contributions is 15%, a 50% increase from the current estimates.
Eligibility for Financing
The Competitive Grants System would finance operational costs, short-term training and small investment in equipment
(see Operation Manual for details).
Priority Areas
The five priority areas selected in the Competitive Grants System reflect the changing priorities of agricultural research
globally and in Brazil. They focus on the objectives of poverty alleviation and environmental sustainability as well as
increased productivity and efficiency through access to advanced technologies and increased role for the private sector.
One important challenge for AGTEC is to focus priorities in each of these areas while increasing the linkages among
projects within priority areas and among them. Another challenge is to ensure that to the extent possible each project or
program will achieve all three objectives (productivity growth, equity and sustainability), and that each does so in the
most cost-effective manner, such that it addresses the most binding constraints that science (including social science)
can address. AGTEC should derive lessons from the analytical and practical experience of other countries in priority
setting, in addition to a combination of ex ante analysis of likely social and environmental impacts as well as
consultations with NAC and the interest groups of researchers and clients they represent.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 23
Country: Brazil                                 Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Family Farms:
Small farmers in Brazil have not fully benefited from EMBRAPA's excellent technologies. To increase the impact on
their lives will require multidisciplinary approaches to research addressing key constraints in which technology will be
but one of the many factors. The number of family farms in Brazil is estimated at 4.3 million, 53% of which are located
in the Northeast, 21% in the South and just 3% in the Center-West. To increase incomes and employment on family
farms, productivity must be increased not only for subsistence crops, but also for high value crops and livestock products
which offer higher income and employment opportunities. Similarly, more attention must be given to post-harvest
problems to increase value added in agriculture. The problems facing familly farms in achieving the sustainable use of
productive resources (including both natural resources and capital stock), extend well beyond technology. They require
access to products, inputs and financial markets, as well as to appropriate technologies and extension support. Even
though EMBRAPA's program in family farms has diagnosed the problem to be mostly social (lack of farmers'
organizations and lack of appropriate policies), it recognizes the importance of the supply of adequate technologies and
extension to both male and female-headed households. The program has identified three broad areas for future research
(sustainable use of resources, farmers organizations and rural development).
Advanced (including bio) Technologies:
Modem biotechnology uses advanced methods of genetics, molecular biology and cell and tissue cultures for the
selection, genetic engineering and cloning of living things as well as fermentation processes for production.
Biotechnology can contribute to a tremendous number of products, processes and services. Biotechnology in Brazil is
large and includes applications for use in human and animal health, agriculture and agro-industry. Biotechnology can
play an important role in accelerating breeding work as well as increasing resistance to a variety of stresses. The
potential of biotechnology applications in the Brazilian agricultural market is estimated at over US$478 million per
year. The SNPA faces several challenges, namely: i) acquisition of new cutting-edge technologies from the private
sector; ii) training in critical areas such as IPR and regulatory procedures including risk assessment; and iii)
harmonizing biosafety guidelines at the MERCOSUL level. EMBRAPA's program has identified five main
priorities/demands, namely: i) production of technology for use of biological products in agricultural and forest
production systems; ii) development of biotechnology in human nutrition; iii) development of biotechnological
procedures to increase the efficiency of agricultural and forest production systems; iv) development in the area of
molecular biology; and v) development of biotechnological procedures for native and exotic microorganisms. Specific
priorities will be developed through a process that will use local and international experience. The issue of how much
research should be conducted of a basic and strategic nature relative to the more applied and adaptive research will be
important for a relatively small biotechnology program compared for instance to the U.S. Clearly, given the limited
resources, the priorities established should try to increase efficiency and sustainability of research in other research
programs, to the extent possible, by providing a service function. But such applied research must not come at the cost of
decreasing capacity for discovery research.
Natural Resource Management:
The importance of NRM research cannot be overemphasized because it forms the foundation of sustainable
development. To be effective, NRM research must be long-term, multi disciplinary, holistic and system-oriented. Both
basic and strategic NRM research in Brazil has made excellent progress. Brazil has six distinct ecoregions. These are:
Amazon (57% of the Brazilian land area), Cerrado (23%), Caatinga (11%), Coastal Forest (5%), Campos do Sul (2%)
and Pantanal (2%). Climate, soil properties, water resources, demography and sociaVcultural characteristics differ
among regions. To prioritize research from among a large number of small projects, grouping sub projects under a few
key themes is important. Specific areas of interest to EMBRAPA's program include: i) biodiversity, ii) land
characterization, iii) sustainable technologies for fanning systems, e.g., Integrated Pest Management and Soil, Water
and Nutrient Management, iv) environmental quality, v) water resources and aquaculture, vi) agroecological zoning,
and vii) technology transfer and education. The unit of analysis will be the watershed.
Agribusiness:
Agribusiness should play a fundamental role in Brazil's development by: i) increasing the income of family farms and
farmers organizations, including female-headed households, ii) opening new markets (both foreign and domestic), iii)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 24
Country: Brazil                                 Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
generating employment in rural areas, including expanded opportunities to women, iv) stabilizing rural communities
both economically and socially, v) creating new opportunities for commercial agriculture, vi) increasing food supply by
reducing post-harvest losses, and vii) increasing the value added to agricultural products and expanding the diversity of
food products. The recent experience of expansion of high-value crop production in the North and Northeastern regions
has brought increased attention to the potential of this area of research. EMBRAPA has identified the following
priorities: i) productive chains, ii) processing and industrialization, iii) post-harvest and storage.
Strategic Studies:
Some resources have been reserved for conducting studies on problems which may well be very important to society but
which may not have been on the priority agenda of most research institutions. This might include responses to outbreaks
of certain unanticipated pests and diseases as well as the long-term problems of the destruction of forests or river basins
which require long-term multi disciplinary research. It would be up to the research community in Brazil to explore these
unusual research questions which address social and environmental issues.
PROJECT COMPONENT 2: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING: USS44.7 million (total cost of component)
The Institutional Strengthening component will strengthen the ability of weaker institutions to participate in the
Competitive Grants System, thereby increasing opportunity for other players, e.g., farmers organizations, state research
and extension systems, to participate in technology design and transfer. The institutional strengthening component
consists of two principal components:
limited direct support to members of the SNPA related to the most essential equipment, works, and vehicles on a
highly selective basis to increase their capacity to participate effectively in the Competitive Grants System; and
*  the development of the long-term human and institutional capital (including studies for financing and investment)
strategies for a financially and sociopolitically stronger SNPA.
Through the first three projects financed by the Bank and other investments by the IDB, EMBRAPA has generally
excellent physical infrastructure and human capital. Yet there are considerable differences among EMBRAPA's
research centers in terms of capabilities for competing at the national level. Since nearly two-thirds of the researchers
are concentrated in the South and Southwest, centers in the Northeast and North are generally weaker than those in the
South, and will need assistance to compete. The differences among the state research systems and among universities
are even larger; in some states, research and extension systems are absent altogether, and in others the size of the
research establishments are a small fraction of those in the large states. But even in the relatively well-funded states
(e.g., Sgo Paulo and Minas Gerais), state funding has been unstable and declining and state governments have not made
capital investments in research for several years. Thus, often the most critical human capital, equipment or laboratory
facilities tend to be lacking. The institutional strengthening component would, therefore, finance some of the most
essential equipment, e.g., laboratories, works, vehicles as well investment in human and institutional capital. It will be
implemented at the federal and the state levels, and would complement the Competitive Grants System. Overall
coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the institutional strengthening component would rest with the Chairman of
the EC, supported by the ES. EMBRAPA's various line units responsible for training and staff development, the DUs,
the Basic Seeds Production Service, and the Satellite Communications System (see below) would implement the relevant
strengthening programs consistent with their expanded responsibilities under the project. They would have access to
technical assistance, training and other resources to perform their functions. The relevant technical sections of
EMBRAPA would also assist the weaker EMBRAPA centers, state research and extension systems and other related
institutions to improve their facilities, and participation in the conduct of reviews, training and installation of advanced
communications technology.
At the Federal Level:
Strengthening of the Research Management and Ongoing Decentralization Process of EMBRAPA Centers
EMBRAPA has already undertaken a major program of decentralization of administrative responsibilities. The project
would finance only the minimum essential civil works, vehicles, laboratory and other equipment, training and technical
assistance, in the priority areas of research, with a particular emphasis on strengthening the weak centers so as to enable



Project Appraisal Docunent                                                                Page 25
Country: Brazil                                  Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
them to compete nationally. Criteria for the allocation of resources to the EMBRAPA centers and much of the rest of the
institutional component (including for support to the states) would be similar.
* Priority will be given to the needs most directly relevant to the areas which advance the overall objectives of the
project, i.e., emphasis on small farm development (including strengthening the socio-economic aspects of that
development), NRM, research and development in the areas of public-private partnerships and biotechnology;
*  Those EMBRAPA centers or states located in the most strategic areas from the perspective of addressing certain
problems, but which are currently unable to effectively participate, will receive ameliorative assistance. For
example, centers in the Northeast will receive priority in the development of small farm programs that might focus
on semi-arid agriculture, and those in the North or EMBRAPA's agroecological centers would be given priority in
ensuring that they have the critical capacities to compete in the area of NRM. Centers or states needing to use
biotechnology in the service of specific problems related to small farm development, NRM  or public private
partnerships will receive priority in biotechnology;
*  The extent to which the centers already have the physical infrastructure needed to meet the specific objectives of the
projects (e.g., laboratory equipment, geographic information systems (GIS) facilities) will be considered; and
*  The extent to which the centers subrmit proposals, win grants and/or contain researchers who (actually or
potentially) lead projects will influence the extent to which they benefit from the institutional component.
Training
An important part of this investment would be in local and international, short and long-term degree training and visits.
EMBRAPA has a training committee which represents a wide range of SNPA institutional interests. It aggregates
training needs from the centers as well as the SNPA, reviews the current and likely future availability of trained
personnel by regions and disciplines in line with future SNPA-wide and EMBRAPA center specific priorities, and
allocates resources. This committee will be responsible for establishing training priorities. Training in socioeconomic
research, IPR issues, monitoring and evaluation and the use of advanced methods of analysis, e.g., biotechnology, GIS,
would receive priority. EMBRAPA's NAC and NAC Sub-Council and the EC together with its existing internal
controls, and Bank supervision missions would review the extent to which criteria outlined below for training fulfill the
long-term objectives of the project. A study on long-term human resource development will complement the training
component.
Human resource development has been an important element of the SNPA. EMNRAPA has bylaws with regard to the
training it finances which are applied to the SNPA as a whole. These detailed norms specify application and selection
procedures, scholarships and monitoring and evaluation of training. SNPA candidates are obliged to sign additional
terms of commitments with the concerned SNPA institutions to ensure the use of their training. Drafts of these
contracts are included in the bylaws. There are local and central committees for selection composed of permanent and
elected members which establish priority areas for research/training in specific areas. The priority areas and the number
of vacancies are established for a three year period and internal technical committees of each center are responsible for
priority setting. Priorities are established based on the need for the establishment of specific research groups according
to each institution's mandate, the institutional directive plans, projects and subprojects. The central committee in
EMBRAPA, which represents the SNPA interests, has eight members. It gives final approval and ensures compatibility
among the proposals presented by the units and institutions and with the global priorities of EMBRAPA and the SNPA.
Applications are open to all researchers, research managers and technical staff in the SNPA. The standard is 24 months
for a master's degree, 42 months for a Ph.D. and 12 months for post-doctorate. Sandwich programs are encouraged.
Evaluations for promotion take into account the training acquired, the quality of the thesis, number and quality of
publications, participation in meetings, school transcripts, the level of excellence and length of the course. Each student
has an advisor or training counselor in his/ her institution in Brazil.
The revamped NAC has a major role in reviewing these long-term training priorities. Furthermore the EC will
participate in the decisions to ensure that the short-term training including that provided as part of the Competitive
Grants System and long-term training will maintaining coherence. The study on human resource development will
complement these reforms.



Project Appraisal Documnent                                                               Page 26
Country: Brazil                                  Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Satellite Communications
The decentralization of national research centers calls for improved speed of information exchange and sophisticated
data transfers among EMBRAPA centers and between EMBRAPA and international research institutions. EMBRAPA's
research programs-divided among the DUs on commodities, biotechnology, agroecological and thematic centers and
involving an overall research budget of nearly US$550 million annually-- call for constant communication and
interaction. With the long distances, high transportation and communications costs and the dearth of dedicated
telephone lines even in some major metropolitan centers, achieving integration of the national research system poses
major challenges. Communication problems of remote centers are even more. The project would finance the cost of
communication facilities of US$2.5 million out of the estimated total cost of US$7.5 million, with expected financing of
US$5 million through an IDB loan which expires in December 1997. EMBRAPA's installation proposals reviewed by
consultants approved by the Bank are sound. An implementation plan including guidelines for procurement acceptable
to the Bank are in place.
Strengthening Public-Private Partnerships
The fostering of the public-private partnerships under the project entails at least four aspects being undertaken through
several different project activities:
*  Increasing the mobilization of private sector resources directly through collaborative research--as part of the
Competitive Grants System. The resource mobilization would be reflected both in the number of such partnerships
and the extent of research resources raised through collaborations. Experience with PADCT and other Competitive
Grants Systems sugg -;t that large multinational corporations have been willing to contribute between one-third to
one-half of the total research costs, depending on the nature of the research projects. These types of collaborations
would increase once private confidence in the legislative and regulatory framework increases through testing of
laws and regulations, including through the courts. At the other end of the spectrum, even in the best of
circumstances low income small farmers and their organizations would not likely be able to contribute such a high
share of resources. Besides, experience in the Bank-funded poverty projects suggests that many may offer to make
their contributions as labor in the programs of technology transfer. Their contributions could be a minimum of 10%
or more. Promotional programs would be needed to encourage both these types of participation and would be
undertaken by the project.
e  Increasing EMBRAPA's non-budget earnings from the grants, sale of its products, services and technologies
including patents from the current 7% of EMBRAPA's budget (1996) to 15% annually by the end of the project
period, levels similar to those realized by U.S. public institutions. (see Annex 5). EMBRAPA already earns nearly
US$1.5 million annually from the sale of its single hybrid maize seeds which a consortium of private companies
uses to produce double hybrid seed. Similar opportunities exist for the sale of EMBRAPA's other products and
technologies. Such arrangements would be encouraged by increased training and workshops for EMBRAPA
scientists as well as increased promotional efforts related to EMBRAPA's on-shelf technologies.
*  Providing training to EMBRAPA and state-level researchers and science managers in the issues related to IPR,
biosafety guidelines, WTO rules and biodiversity convention. Consultants from U.S. institutions engaged in these
issues have made a variety of recommendations on organizing local and international training for Brazilian
scientists.
*  Divestiture of certain of EMBRAPA's activities with a certain demonstrated commercial potential, e.g., the Basic
Seeds Production Service.
The legislation with regard to IPR, the biosafety guidelines, implications of WTO rules, and the biodiversity convention
are relatively new to Brazil. To comply with the new IPR and biosafety legislation and by-laws, EMBRAPA has
established internal committees at the DU level, started training programs and established a sub-unit for EPR-related
activities which has been actively using the support of leading experts from institutions in advanced countries for the
development of this unit. The project would finance domestic and foreign training, consultancy services and short-term
training for EMBRAPA's own centers, state research institutions and other actors to establish this capacity. The
expected output will be researchers and administrators more aware of the constraints and opportunities of the new
enviromnent.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 27
Country: Brazil                                 Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
International Collaborations with the CGLAR system, ARIs, and LABEX
Brazil's SNPA has much to gain from, as well as contribute to, scientific advances in international research.
Developing countries who are members of the CGIAR typically contribute budgetary support to the specific CGIAR
centers of special interest to them. Brazil is no exception. After a period during which Brazil ceased its contributions, it
has once again become an active member of the CGIAR system. Past contributions by Brazil have been mostly to the
centers located in Latin America (CIMMYT, CIAT and CIP). However, EMBRAPA has become more proactive in
articulating its needs. Its research interests have widened to reflect emphasis on NRM, participatory approaches to
technology generation for small farmers, and policy research; collaborations have increased to include IPGRI, IFPRI,
ISNAR, CIFOR and ICRAF. The project would fund collaborative research, training and outreach programs involving
these institutions in the areas that would serve project objectives using the following criteria: i) history of collaborations,
ii) the extent to which the CGIAR centers are working in the areas of high priority for Brazil, iii) the extent to which
they work on problems of ecoregions common to Brazil, and iv) the CGIAR's capabilities.
Science is advancing rapidly. Bilateral aid which in the past played a key role in foreign training, collaborative research
and institutional development has declined. With widening differences in educational costs between developing and
developed countries, degree training in most developing countries including Brazil has increasingly become local,
leading to inbreeding. With the much larger human capital base that Brazil now possesses, it is possible to place
promising mid-career senior scientists in the institutions of advanced countries for stocktaking of the latest scientific
developments, and developing joint programs between developed and developing countries for modernizing science and
its management (this project is referred to by EMBRAPA as LABEX). AGTEC will finance the placement of a few well-
selected Brazilian scientists in U.S. institutions directly and through other international collaborative arrangements. The
objective would also be to leverage EMBRAPA resources with those in international agencies and ARIs to develop
collaborative research, education/training and outreach efforts in the areas of mutual interest with a strong international
public goods focus.
Strategic Studies and Action Plans in Support of Diversification, Decentralization and Sustainability of the SNPA
It is clear that many of the solutions to the problems of stability, predictability and sociopolitical and financial
sustainability of the Brazilian SNPA entail complex fiscal, technical, constitutional and financial issues which will take
time to address. Besides, the project is rather small in relation to the problems at hand, albeit innovative in nature. It
therefore supports a number of major studies and the development of action plans to address long-term strategic issues
facing the SNPA including preparation of future investment proposals, e.g., to reduce several of EMBRAPA's ongoing
responsibilities vis A vis the states, the universities and the private sector and enable it to move upstream in providing
more strategic leadership. The studies will be carried out with substantial consultation with potential users and providers
of the services to develop a broad political consensus for the action plans and future investment proposals. The studies
include:
*  Financing of Agricultural Research, Technology Development and Transfer
*  Development of an Action Plan for EMBRAPA's Seed Production Unit
*  Design of Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation System and Its Implementation
*  A Study of Human Resource Development
*  Strategy for the Development of Agro-Industry
*  Priority Setting in the Four Priority Areas and Action Plan to Improve Priority Setting.
All studies and establishment of action plans are proposed in the first 18 months, prior to the Mid Term Review (see
below) with a view to ensuring the implementation of their findings in the remaining period of the project. (see Working
Papers in Annex 8 for terms of reference of the studies).



Project Appraisal Documnent                                                           Page 28
Country: Brazil                                Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
At the State Level:
Strengthening of the State Research Centers
Although state and other local research and extension institutions will be eligible to compete in the Competitive Grants
System, both short-term ameliorative investments and long-term solutions to the problems of state financing and
capacity for agricultural research are needed to increase their ability to compete, particularly in view of the great
variation in the levels of funding and human capital among states and the lack long-term investments in critical
facilities needed to conduct or upgrade research. Dependence on EMBRAPA is much greater in the weaker states such
as Alagoas and Sergipe. Where neither the federal nor the state research and extension services are present, other
existing institutions need to be supported to undertake research and extension functions jointly with EMBRAPA and the
stronger of the state research and educational institutions, instead of expanding EMBRAPA centers in a period of
budget constraints.
This component will consist of training, consultancies, support for management reforms, and improved laboratory and
office equipment where it is most needed to foster research collaborations between EMBRAPA, the states, universities
and the private sector. The criteria for financing would be similar to those being applied in the case of EMBRAPA
centers, namely to meet the needs of the neediest but promising state research and technology transfer systems in the
five priority areas established for Competitive Grants System. Various departments of EMBRAPA responsible for
interacting with the state research systems will implement the investment program.
With such increased state activity in research and extension, EMBRAPA would be able to reduce its research staff
support to the states from US$9 million in 1996 to US$2 million by the end of the project period and shift those
resources upstream to focus on strategic pretechnology problems, and in developing the broader incentive system for
mobilization of additional resources in research (Annex 5).
The EC Chairman will have responsibility for overall coordination of the investment program undertaken by various
departments of EMBRAPA, with support from the ES for all administrative, financial management, accounting and
auditing functions.
PROJIECT COMPONENT 3: ADMINISTRATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION: US$ 3.3 million (total
cost of component)
Due to the innovative and experimental nature of the project, a strong monitoring and evaluation system for the SNPA
as a whole with a firm baseline is a must. EMBRAPA already has a well-developed information management system.
However, a similar system will have to be developed for the project-financed activities in the SNPA as a whole.
EMBRAPA has recently introduced an M&E system that integrates the institutional and individual dimensions and
annually evaluates the results obtained by its research centers and employees. This system offers an important
management tool with potential for application to the mnanagement, monitoring and evaluation of the state research
systems. A second important innovation is the introduction of bonuses according to results, where the bonuses ensue
from achieving goals negotiated at the beginning of the year between DUs or the employee and EMBRAPA. These
features would be useful for the project. Yet the EMBRAPA system was designed to address a different set of
requirements. The project's M&E system would build on and modify EMBRAPA's system by drawing on the experience
of other M&E systems in Brazil. To increase coordination with the Bank funded project, AGTEC's M&E system would
bring the existing M&E systems up to the standards of the U.S. National Science Foundation and the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development. A draft design of the M&E system would be reviewed during negotiations and
the completion of the design satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of project effectiveness.
The Project Implementation Plan below provides details with regard to the schedule of implementation for all project
components. Annex 8 provides a Working Paper detailing the terms of reference and timetable for action plans for all
studies.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 29
Country: Brazil                               Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Organizational Structure: AGTEC
National Advisory Council
NAC I ScubC,lI
|AGTECl
Executive Committee
Executive Secretary
J             |      ~~~~(DEC/CRI)       l
|Sub-committee for research area 1|   Sub-committee for research area 2 |    Sub-committee n
Advane tehooisFmiyFrs..
4       A~~d hoc Reviewers 
(Brazilian and Foreign)
Evolution of EMBRAPA's budget
(in 1996 USS)
600
500
400
_300-
200
100
l zLdmUh I~~c C:
Lfl CC f  CC  CC  C  -  0ro       OB  s 1ther    0 in vetmn
COWages flOper. Costs UBuildings C0Other investments



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 30
Country: Brazil                                  Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Project Implementation Plan
1997                   1998         1999      2000
F M AM  J JI A SON D  ILU1IV I 11 11 IV
Project Processing                        x
Conditions for Negotiations Met                  x
Negotiations                                      x
Board Presentation                                   x
Conditions for Effectiveness Met                           x
Effectiveness                                   I  I _x
Project Launch Activities                          I _x  x
Project Launch Seminar                                        xi
Seminar on Family Farms                                             x
Other seminars on priority areas                                                x               x
Component I: Competitive Grants System
First EC Council meetings                                     x
Preparation for RFPs                                          xI
RFPs Issued                              _x
Receipt of Proposals                                                x
Selection of proposals                                                 x
Announcement of Awards                                                 x
Preparation and Signing Contracts                                         x
Component II: Institutional Strengthening
GOB clearance for CG Contracts                          x  x  x
Contracts with CGIAR                                             X
LABEX
Selection of Scientists                          x  x
Placement of Coordinating Office                              x
Placement of Scientists                                       x
Satellite Communications
Call for bids                                           x  x
Evaluation of bids                                         x                                   I  I     I
Contract Awards                                       I  I xi
Contract Implementation                                    xxx   x  xx x  _  =  _ _  _
SNPA training                                                _
Announcement oftraining                  |  |   |   X x |  |  _  _
Selection                                I
Placement                                                     _x
Strengthening Research at State Level     -  -               _
Proposals from States                                            x                                 - _ _
Evaluation of Proposals                                             x
Approval                                                            x
Implementation                                               _         x        x   x x x   x x   _     
Studies
Fine-tuning of TORs                                        xx
Selection of Consultants                                      x  x



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 31
Country: Brazil                                 Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
1997                   1998        1999     2000
F  M  A M  J J A  S O N D  I 11 1 IV  I |I|II|IV| 
Outlines from Consultants                                      x
Approval of Outlines                                           x
First draft of studies received                                               x
Workshops/Seminars on drafts                                                     x
Action Plans Developed                                                                 x       I
Implementation of Action Plans                                                         x x x        x x
Component m: MIS and M&E
Baseline for SNPA in Place                               x
MIS and M and E in Operation                                               x
Mid Term Evaluation                                                                       x
MINISTRY FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD SUPPLY
. A
*                         t.,* .
I,   :', ,'                                    :.i;.
r~~~~r,
HEADQUARTERS
ECOREGIONAL RESEARCH CENTRES 13
A   NATIONAL PRODUCE CENTRES 15
0   NATIONAL THEMATIC CENTRES 9
SERVICES 2
O  STATE ENTERPRISES 15



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 32
Country: Brazil                                Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Research Expenditures and Targeted Project Amounts Through
Competitive Grants System, EMBRAPA (1996)
Programs       Project Targets   Direct Operating   Staff Costs  Research Related  Total
Competitive    Research Budget               Investments    Expenditures
Grants System      (R$ m)                    Operations and
Maintenance
NRM
Natural Resources                              3.08       33.74            10.59         47.41
Genetic Resources                              2.82       27.91             5.00         35.73
Agroforestry                                   1.79       17.98             3.28         23.05
Environment                                    1.86       10.42             2.97         15.25
Subtotal                      3.60             9.55       90.05            21.84        121.44
Advanced
Technologies
Biotechnology                                  1.61        12.63            2.19         16.43
Subtotal                      3.60             1.61       12.63             2.19         16.43
Crops and
Livestock
Grains                                         5.28       68.27            14.86         88.41
Fruits and Vegetables                          2.68       41.20            12.37         56.25
Animal Production                              4.82       62.00            18.27         85.09
Subtotal                      3.60            12.78      171.47            45.50        229.75
Family Agriculture                             1.26        6.95             1.19          9.40
Subtotal                      3.60             1.26        6.95             1.19          9.40
Agribusiness
Material Inputs                                2.28       21.89             4.28         28.45
Post Harvest                                   1.29        8.42             0.88         10.59
Mechanization                                  1.07        6.65             0.75          8.47
Development                                    3.28       55.16            36.56         95.00
Information                                    1.72       21.85             8.02         31.59
Subtotal                      2.00             9.64      113.97            50.49        174.10
State Systems                                  2.98       11.71            -0.18         14.51
Subtotal                                       2.98       11.71            -0.18         14.51
TOTAL                                         37.82      406.78           121.03        565.63



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 33
Country: Brazil                                          Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
EMBRAPA Centers and Acronyms
UDS = UNIDADES DESCENTRALIZADAS
CENARGEN - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Recursos Geneticos e Biotecnologia
CNPA - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Algodao
CNPAB - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Agrobiologia
CNPAF - Centrm Nacional de Pesquisa de Arroz e Feijao
CNPAT - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Agroind0istria Tropical
CNPC - Contro Nacional de Pesquisa de Caprinos
CNPDIA - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa e Desenvolvimento de lnstrumfentaao Agropecuiria
CNPF - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Florestas
CNPGC - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Gado de Corte
CNPGL - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Gado de Leite
CNPH - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Hortalicas
CNPMA - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Monitoramento e Avaliapio de Impacto Ambiental
CNPMF - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Mandioca e Fruticultura Tropical
CNPMS - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Milho e Sorgo
CNPS - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Solos
CNPSA - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Sufnos e Aves
CNPSo - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Soja
CNPT - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Trigo
CNPTIA - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa Tecnol0gica em Informatica para a Agricultura
CNPUV - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Uva e Vinho
CPAA - Centro de Pesquisa Agroflorestal da Amaz6nia Ocidental
CPAC - Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuiria dos Cerrados
CPACT - Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria de Clima Temperado
CPAF-ACRE - Centro de Pesquisa Agroflorestal do Acre
CPAF-AMAPA - Centro de Pesquisa Agroflorestal do Amapa
CPAF-ROND6NIA - Centro de Pesquisa Agroflorestal de Rond6nia
CPAF-RORAIMA - Centro de Posquisa Agroflorestal de Roraima
CPAMN - Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuiria do Meio Norte
CPAO - Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Oeste
CPAP - Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuiria do Pantanal
CPATC - Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuiria dos Tabuleiros Costeiros
CPATSA - Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tr6pico Semi-Arido
CPATU - Centro de Pesquisa Agroflorestal da Amazonia Oriental
CPPSE - Centro de Pesquisa de Pecuaria do Sudeste
CPPSUL - Centro de Pesquisa de Pecuaia dos Campos Sul Brasileiros
CTAA - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Tecnologias Agroind0stria de Alimentos
NMA - Nucleo de Monitoramento Ambiental de Recursos Naturais por Satelite
SPI - Servipo de Produ,ao de lnformaIao
SPSB - Servi9o de Producao de Sementes Bisicas



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 34
Country: Brazil                            Project Title: Agriculturl Technology Development Project
EMBRAPA Research Expenditures by Research Center (1996)
UNIT                   VALUE (RS)                   THEME
135001      CPAF-RO                   8,366,034  Agroforestry/Amazon
135002      CPAF-AC                   7,173,710  Agroforestry/Amazon
135005      CPAF-RR                   4,641,329  Agroforestry/Amazon
135006      CPATU                    31,721,887  Agroforestry/Amazon.
135008      CPAF-AP                   4,310,541  Agroforestry/Amazon
135009      CPAMN                     8,762,532  Northeast - Ecoregional
135010      CNPC                      6,821,881  Goats Northeast
135011      CNPA                      9,157,865  Cotton - Northeast
130012      CPATSA                   18,480,145  Eco - Northeast
135013      CPATC                     8,285,367  Coast Table - Northeast
135014      CNPMF                    12,302,967  Cassava, T.F. - Northeast
135015      CNPGL                    19,191,583  Milk Cattle - Southeast
135016      CNPMS                     18,103,139  Maize and Sorghum - S.E.
135017      CNPGC                    11,326,047  Beef cattle - Centerwest
135018      CPAP                      8,699,812  Lowlands - Eco
135019      CPAO                      5,951,461  Centerwest- Eco
135020      CTAA                      9,613,953  Food Agroindustry.
135021      CNPS                      6,962,179  Soil
135023      CNPAB                     6,846,811  Agribio
135024      CPPSE                     8,334,290  Cattle - Southeast
135025      CNPMA                     9,365,324  Environmental Evaluation
135028      CNPDIA                    3,277,733  Computer science
135027      CNPTIA                    5,538,155  Agricultural instrumentation
135028      CNPF                     11,207,930  Forestry - South
135029      CNPSo                    16,597,540  Soybeans - South
135030      CNPSA                    12,015,362  Swine and Poultry
135031      CPACT                    21,987,846  Temperate Climate
135032      CNPT                      12,025,510  Wheat - South
135033      CNPWV                     6,224,682  Wine Groups
135035      CPPSUL                    5,544,665  Sheep - South
135036      CNPAF                    16,131,562  Rice and Beans
135038      CENARGEN                 19,597,439  Genetic Resources, Biotech
135039      CPAC                     21,416,065  Cerrado - Centerwest
135040      CNPH                      11,468,055  Vegetable - Centerwest
135041      SPSB                     28,005,614  Basic Seed
135047      UEP-PI                    3,910,678  Irrigation - Northeast
135048      CNPAT                    10,956,824  Tropical Agroindustry
135049      CPAA                      15,009,366  Agroforestry/Amazon
135050      NMA                       2,539,715  Environmental Sensor
135081      SPI                       4,113,084  Information
135046      SEDE                    113,799,065  Headquarters
TOTAL                                565,775,599



Project Appraisal Docunent                                                   Page 35
Country: Brazil                           Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Annex 3
Brazil
Agricultural Technology Development
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component         Local  Foreign   Total   Share of Foreign  Total Base
Exchange         Costs
--------US$ rnillion--------  ---------------Percentage----------
1) Competitive Grants System     54.00     18.00    72.00              25.0         60.0
2) Institutional Strengthening   25.34     16.54    41.88               39.5        35.0
3) Administration, Monitoring and
Evaluation                        2.24      0.85     3.09               27.5         2.5
Total Baseline Cost              81.58     35.39   116.97               30.2        97.5
Physical Contingencies          1.44      0.32     1.76               18.2         1.4
Price Contingencies             0.05      1.22     1.27              96.1          1.1
Total Proiect Cost               83.07     36.93   120.00               30.7       100.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 36
Country: Brazil                                 Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Annex 4
Brazil
Agricultural Technology Development
Economic Project Analysis
While it has been shown by numerous ex-post studies that investment in agricultural research provides high payoffs over the
long-term, it is difficult to anticipate a priori those payoffs for the design of specific research programs and projects funded
through competitive grants systems, particularly in the areas of family farms, NRM and advanced technologies. Demand for
this type of research has been relatively unarticulated in the past. EMBRAPA has considerable expertise in ex-ante
evaluation of research investments, and has developed some prototype models based on the recent experience of the likely
returns to such research. These models are presented below (details of these models are in the project files, Annex 8). A
database with the required information is also being constructed under the project since the Operational Manual requires
that each project submitted for competition show expected costs and benefits. This expertise and information would be used
to set future research priorities under the project and in the design of future projects. However, presently there is not enough
information to conduct a meaningful ex-ante evaluation of returns to research. Preparation effort is instead being used to
develop mechanisms which enhance the relevance of the research program to the clients, effectively screen the scientific
quality of research proposals, as well as enable EMBRAPA to evaluate research in these relatively new areas.
A Model of Family Anriculture
In 1987 the CPAC (EMBRAPA) started the project Silvania-Goias, jointly with farmers' organizations. The project
included new methods for participatory research and small farmers' involvement in the project design, both areas in which
the small farmer has traditionally been absent. The total project cost over 2 years was US$1.7 mnillion. It is assumed that
EMBRAPA and other institutions would finance research of this type involving the first two years of activities during which
farmers' financing mechanisms would be developed (See Project Files, Annex 8, for estimation of costs and benefits). Three
farm models are analyzed to assess the financial viability of the introduction of the proposed technological changes while
maintaining current cultivation and production activities. Incomes of family farms of 12 ha would increase by 500%, for
family farms of 20 ha income would grow by 300% and for family farms of 40 ha the expected income growth is 220%.
The IERR is 26.7% if 700 farmers join the project between the years 1998 and 2000, a result considered possible with the
resources planned.
A Model of Natural Resource Management
In order to analyze the impact of development and diffusion of NRM technologies it is assumed that CPAC (one of
EMBRAPA's DUs) would lead a project together with the Universidade Federal de Labras and the Instituto Estadual de
Florestas de Minas Gerais. The figures are based on the experience of the PROFLORESTA project implemented by the
Instituto Estadual de Florestas de Minas Gerais and co-financed by the Bank. (see Project Files in Annex 8 for detailed cost
and benefit tables). Under the proposed technologies, which include improvements in the actual crops and recovery of
degraded soils, income would increase by 300%. The economic evaluation was conducted assuming that 4,500 farmers with
an average of 3 ha of forested land join the project over 7 years. For the economic evaluation the share of wood that would
be exported was valued at export prices. The IERR for this project is 30%.
A Model of Advanced Technolol!ies
As an example of these type of projects, the proposal to be submitted by the CNPS Londrina (EMBRAPA) in 1997 is
considered. In 1991, a new soybean nem?pide (NCS) was discovered in Brazil; this nematode is today one of the main
plagues attacking soybeans in Brazil with  . ;u ice over 20% of the area covered by this crop and causing loses estimated
at US$20 million. One of the most effici.   -'i. to right this plague is through resistant cultivars. Development of these



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 37
Country: Brazil                                 Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
cultivars is slow and cumbersome because it involves the isolation of specific strains of the nematode, inoculation of the
progenies to be tested and evaluation of losses in the thousand of cultivars tested in the program. The project proposes to
accelerate the development process by introducing molecular markers. It is assumed that this technology could shorten the
development of new cultivars in three years, and that over ten years the project would reap benefits of US$20 million with
annual costs between USS60,000 and US$75,000. The IERR is estimated at 146%.
A Model of A,ribusiness
The institutions of SNPA should also offer solutions to correct distortions or shortcomings in the marketing chain beyond
the farmgate which can limit primary production. In some cases, this implies the development of new technologies for
processing and commercializing products that currently have no demand but which could be developed through product
diversification. Technological solutions which resolve these problems will result in benefits for the entire marketing chain,
including the consumer. The private sector would share in the costs if the research was expected to be profitable. The
Competitive Grants System will spur private sector interest in addressing these technological issues, which in turn will
generate new products, processes and markets as well as benefits both within and beyond agribusinesses
Returns to Traditional Commodity Research
Several authors have calculated ex post rates of return for traditional commodity-oriented agricultural research for different
programs under SNPA (such as EMBRAPA as a whole or particular commodity programs). The following tables, published
in Avila, F., Cruz, E. and Castro, J. (Avaliaqco dos Impactos Socioeconomicos da Pesquisa Agropecuaria, in Gestao em
Ciencia e Tecnologia, EMBRAPA, 1994), list the most important evaluations of the economic returns to Brazilian
agricultural system research.
Brazilian Agricultural Research Evaluation: EMBRAPA's Experience
Authors                         Specification Area                Period        IERR(%)
Cruz, Palma & Avila (1982)         Total Investment                                 1974/92      22-43
Cruz & Avila (1983)                World Bank Project I                             1977/82         20
1977/91         38
Avila, Borges-Andrade Irias & Quirino Human Capital: Res. Total investment          1974/96      22-30
Roessing (1984)                    Soybeans Res. Center: Total investment           1975/82       45.62
Ambrosi & Cruz (1984)              Wheat Res. Center Total investment               1974/82       59-74
Avila, Irias & Veloso (1985)       IDB Project: EMBRAPA South System                1977/96         27
1974/96         38
Barbosa, Cruz & Avila (1988)       Total Investment: New Evaluation                 1974/96       64-41
Kitamura et al. (1988)             EMBRAPA research: North Region                   1974/96         24
Santos et al. (1988)              EMBRAPA research: Northeast Region                1974/96         25
Teixeira et al. (1988)             EMBRAPA research: Center West Region             1974/96         43
Lanzer et al. (1988)               EMBRAPA research: South Region                   1974/96         45
Barbosa, Avila & Motta (1988)      World Bank Project II                            1982/87         43



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 38
Country: Brazil                                Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Brazilian Agricultural Research Evaluation: Other studies
Authors                       Specification Area        Product             Period       IERR (%)
Ayer & Schuh (1972)           Sao Paulo                 Cotton              1924/67            77
Monteiro (1975)               Brazil                    Cocoa               1923/75         16-18
Fonseca (1976)                Brazil                    Coffee              1933/95         23-26
Moricochi (1980)              Sao Paulo                 Citrus              1933/85         78-28
Avila (1981)                  Rio G. Sul                Rice                1959/78        87/119
Monteiro (1985)               Minas Gerais &            Cocoa               1958/85         61-79
Esp. Santo
GonWalves, Souza & Rezende    Sao Paulo                 Rice                1976/88         85-95
(1989)
Evenson (1982)                Brazil                    Aggregated          1966/79            69
Silva (1984)                  Brazil                    Aggregated          1970/80            60
Pinazza et al. (1984)         Var. NA5679               Sugarcane           1972/82            35
Sao Paulo
Ayrea (1985)                  Brazil &                  Soybeans            1955/83            46
States: ParanA,                                                 51
S. Paulo,                                                       23
S. Catarina,                                                    31
Rio G. Sul                                                      53
Evenson & Cruz (1989a)        Brazil                    Wheat               1966/88            39
Maize                                 30
Soybeans                              50
Evenson & Cruz (1989a)        PROCISUR                  Wheat               1966/88           110
Maize                                 191
Soybeans                             179
Evenson (1990a)               Brazil                    Field Crops            1970,        68-75
South-Center             Livestock               75
Northeast                Per. Crops & 80                     71-78



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 39
Country: Brazil                            Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Annex 5
Brazil
Agricultural Technology Development
Financial Summary
(Years Ending December 31)
1997a   1998  1999    2000       2001      2002' Total
Proiect Costs (million US$)
Investment Costs               7.1    18.9  28.8    27.2       23.5       11.3   116.8
Recurrent Costs                0.4     0.7    0.9      0.8      0.4        0.0     3.2
Total                                                                            120.0
Financins Sources
( of total proiect costs)
IBRD                            71      48     49      49        49        46       50
EMBRAPA                          8      10     10       11       12         14      11
Beneficiaries                    6      14     14       14       15         17      14
GOB                             15      28     27      26        24        23       25
Total                           100     100    100      100       100       100      100
0 one-half of the Bank's fiscal year



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 40
Country: Brazil                                Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Annex 6
Brazil
Agricultural Technology Development
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement of goods and works financed by the Bank under the project would follow Bank Guidelines (Guidelines for
Procurement under Bank Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996). As applicable,
standard bidding documents for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) acceptable to the Bank have been agreed to and
incorporated into the Operational Manual, to be used by the implementing agencies as the basis for procurement under the
project.
Procurement under the Competitive Grants System (Research Subprojects) component would be carried out according to three
price quotations for civil works and national or international shopping for goods. Under the Institutional Strengthening and
Project Administration Components, civil works contracts costing US$350,000 or more per contract but less than $5 million
per contract would be awarded based on NCB procedures. Minor works (other than works under Research Subprojects)
estimated to cost less than US$350,000 per contract up to an aggregated amount of US$5 million would be procured under
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified contractors in response to a
written invitation. Goods including vehicles, and laboratory and office equipment, estimated to cost more than US$350,000
per contract would be procured under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, and under NCB procedures for
purchases costing more than US$100,000 per contract and less than US$ 350,000 per contract. Other goods, valued at less
than USS100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of $13.1 million, would be purchased on the basis of
international or national shopping from at least three eligible suppliers. The satellite communications system would be
procured according to limited international bidding. Consultant services to provide technical assistance and domestic
training would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. Consultant services to assist grant
recipients carry out research subprojects under the Competitive Grants System component would be procured in accordance
with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank. During supervision missions, the Bank would review procurement
arrangements for a sample of subprojects to ensure compliance with agreed procurement procedures.
Subprojects under the Competitive Grants System as well as purchases of goods and civil works (primarily refurbishing of
existing laboratories and centers) under the Institutional Strengthening and Project Administration Components would be
widely dispersed and implemented in a decentralized fashion by an array of participating institutions, e.g., universities,
research institutions, NGOs and farmer organizations. In addition, the goods and services are expected to be highly
specialized due to the nature of the activities. As a result, the aggregation of procurement would not usually be feasible.
However, to the extent practicable, contracts for computers and contracts for vehicles would be grouped into packages
estimated to cost US$350,000 or more each. A procurement specialist on the staff of the ES would provide assistance to
participating institutions and review procurement under the project to ensure that the conditions described are met. During
supervision missions, the Bank would review procurement arrangements for a sample of subprojects to ensure compliance
with agreed procurement procedures.
The project implementation plan identifies key procurement actions in the first two years of the project. Annual operating
plans would indicate key procurement actions to be taken in the year described. The Bank would review all contracts for:
research grants over US$500,000; civil works contracts over US$350,000; goods purchases over US$350,000; the satellite
communications system; consultant firms over US$100,000; and individual consultants over US$50,000. All consultant terms
of reference would be subject to Bank prior review. In addition, the Bank would review, prior to award of contracts, the first
three proposed grant awards in each of the following categories: (i) small grants (up to US$40,000); and (ii) large grants
(more than US$40,000). Less than 20% of all procurement is expected to be subject to prior review by the Bank. This low
percentage is acceptable since most procurement would be carried out by the grantees under research subprojects; civil works
and goods purchases are expected to be small scale and very location-specific, limiting the cost-effectiveness of aggregation.
As a safeguard against such low levels of prior review, ES staff would include a procurement specialist who would review all
procurement in accordance with the Operational Manual. In addition, a biannual audit would be conducted by outside



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 41
Country: Brazil                                Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
auditors contracted according to TORs and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, to ensure conformity with Bank
procurement guidelines in project implementation. The Bank accounts, including the Special Account and related financial
information (including supporting documentation for the SOEs would be audited annually by an independent private auditor
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with Bank auditing guidelines. Financial audits would be complemented by
procurement audits. If both audits are satisfactory to the Bank, the audits would then be conducted annually. After review of
the first two audits, the Bank may agree with the Borrower to reduce the frequency of the audits to conform with annual
financial audits.  In order to monitor the effectiveness of the financial control system, the accounts for the Competitive
Grants System would be audited semi-annually in the first year of the project.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Total Cost
Expenditure Category              ICB            NCB          Other   N.B.F.  (including
contingencies)
A. Research Subprojects (Competitive                             72.Oa                   72.0
Grants System)                                                  (36.0)                  (36.0)
B. Works (other than works under                         2.2      5.0b                    7.2
Research Subprojects)
(0.7)    (1.5)                  (2.2)
C. Goods (other than goods under                                 13. lc                  13.1
Research Subprojects and including                               (3.4)                   (3.4)
equipment & vehicles)
D. Satellite Communication System                                 25 d    5.Oe            7.5
(2.5)    (0.0)         (2.5)
E. Consultant Services                                            6.1I                    6.1
(5.3)                  (5.3)
F. Training                                                      14.19                   14.1
(10.6)                 (10.6)
Total                                                    2.2    112.8      5.0          120.0
(0.7)   (59.3)    (0.0)        (60.0)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the Bank loan.
a Three quotations for civil works, local or international shopping for goods, and Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (Washington, DC, January 1997) for services.
b Three quotations.
c National or International Shopping.
d Limited international bidding
e Expected IDB Financing under separate loan.
f Services procured in accordance with World Bank, Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
World Bank Borrowers (Washington, DC, January 1997).
9 Ibid.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 42
Country: Brazil                                Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$ thousands or equivalent)
Expenditure Category     Contract Value    Type of Procurement   Prior Review
1. Works                >350              NCB                    *  None
<350             Three Quotations       *  None
2. Goods (including      >350             ICB                     *  All
equipment and vehicles)
100 to 350       NCB
<100             National or International  *  None
Shopping
3. Satellite                              Limited International  .  All
Communications System                     Bidding
4. Consultants
- Firms              >200              QCBS                   .  All (including full
technical evaluation report)
<200             commercial practice    .  All
least cost selection
<100             selection based on     *  None
qualification
-Individuals         > 50             Individuals             *  All
<50              Individuals            *  Terms of Reference
Note: The first three proposed grant awards would be reviewed by the Bank in each of the following
categories: (i) small grants (up to US$40,000); and (ii) large grants (above US$40,000).
Disbursement
The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of five years. The project is expected to be completed by June 30,
2002, and the project's Closing Date is December 31, 2002. The allocation of loan proceeds by disbursement category is
shown in Table C.
The Borrower has established a special account with the Bank of Brazil to cover eligible project expenditures under the
loan. The Bank would initially deposit up to US$4 million to be increased to USS8 million, once cumulative disbursements
of the loan account reached USS12 million. Operation of the special account would follow the Bank's standard
disbursement procedures.
Due to the variability in cofinancing percentages of Research Subprojects based on project type and participating institution,
disbursements would be made for 100% of the value of Research Subprojects which represent a variable proportion of the
total cost of the Research Subproject not to exceed the total cost of the Research Subproject net of taxes. Over all
subprojects, Bank co-financing would average no more than 50% of total subproject costs. Responsibility for determining
the amount of the Research Subproject to be submitted for Bank co-financing would rest with EMBRAPA which would also
be responsible for monitoring the average level of financing for the Bank and all other co-financiers.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 43
Country: Brazil                               Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Disbursements under the loan would be made against SOEs except for payments relating to contracts for equipment,
materials and consultants which require the Bank's prior procurement review. The project implementing agency would be
responsible for retaining all supporting documentation for those withdrawals made on the basis of SOEs, which are to be
mnade available to Bank supervision missions and independent auditors.
During negotiations, the need for retroactive financing was reviewed and agreed for eligible expenditures under the
Institutional Strengthening and Administration, Management Information Systems, Monitoring and Evaluation component
incurred 12 months prior to loan signing in an amount not to exceed USS 6,000,000 (10% of the loan amount).
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Project Category
(US$ millions or equivalent)
Expenditure Category     Project Cost in US$ million          Financing Percentage
1. Research Subprojects
a. Research Grants                   36.0             100% of amount disbursed
2. Institutional Strengthening
and Project Administration
a. Works                              2.0             30%
b. Goods (including                   2.8             100% of foreign expenditures; 30% of local
equipment and vehicles)                             expenditures
c. Satellite Communication            2.4             100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
System                                             expenditures (ex-factory costs)
d. Training                          10.2             100% of foreign expenditures; 35% of local
expenditures
e. Consultants' Services              5.1             100% of foreign expenditures
f. Incremental Operating              0.4             5%
Costs a
g. Unallocated                        1.1
TOTAL                                  60.0
a Incremental Operating Costs include supplies, related staff travel and maintenance of equipment.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 44
Country: Brazil                                Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Annex 7
Brazil
Agricultural Technology Development
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$ '000)                 Planned                 Actual
230.0                   131.00
B. Project Schedule                          Planned                 Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                           12
First Bank mission (identification)          04/27/1996              04/27/1996
Appraisal mission departure                  03/17/1997              01/21/1997
Negotiations                                 04/07/1997              04/07/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                07/01/1997              07/31/1997
Prepared by: Brazilian Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Uma Lele, Edward Bresnyan, Hawanty Page (ESDAR)
Luis Coirolo, Raimundo Caminha, Steven Schonberger (LAIER)
John Barton, Javier Ekboir, Eric Fernmndez, Ratan Lal, Juan Morelli, K.V. Raman (Consultants)



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 45
Country: Brazil                                 Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Annex 8
Brazil
Agricultural Technology Development
Selected Documents and Data in Project Files
Documents in Portuguese
EMBRAPA's Portfolio of Technologies, 1995.
Detailed Project Cost Tables
Policy Statement from Portugal to Bernard, January 1997
EMBRAPA's 1996 Strategies for Development of Family Agriculture, Biotechnology, Natural Resources Management
EMBRAPA's Training Proposal for the project, 1996
Training bylaws for Graduate Training Financed by EMBRAPA, 1996 (DeliberacAo 24/96 and Instruf lo de Servi o DOD 03/96)
Consultant's Working Papers (1996) on
-  Priority Setting (R. Caldas)
-  Institutional Reorientation (F. Dalberto)
- Technology Transfer (G. Olinger)
*  Competitive Grants System (P. Alvim)
Biosafety and Intellectual Property Right Legislation - complete set, 1996
EMBRAPA's Evaluation and Award System, 1996
Minutes of the II and III Ordinary Meetings of the National Advising Council, 1995 and 1996
Operational Manual for the Competitive Grants System, including draft contracts
Draft Annual Work Plan for First Year, PRODETAB
Ministerial Legislation on The National Agricultural Research System (Portaria 193, 1992)
Perspectives for the Financing of Agricultural Research (draft, 1996, Contini, Avila & Reifschneider)
Economic and Financial Evaluation of the Expected Projects (1996, in Spanish, J. Morelli)
Characterization of Priority Areas for Research to be Financed by the Project in 1997 - Natural Resources Management, Advanced
Biology, Small Farm Agriculture and Agribusiness
Documents in English
Identification, Preparation and Pre-appraisal Missions Aide-Memoires (1996)
An International Comparison of Agricultural Research Policies (U. Lele, 1996)
Project Monitoring Letter, April 9, 1997
Consultant's Reports (1996) on
*  Biotechnology Issues (3 reports- K. Raman and R. Beachy)
*  Natural Resources Management (R. Lal)
*  Intellectual Property Rights and Technology Transfer (J. Barton)
*  Satellite Communication System (CGNET, 1997)
*  Promotion of Public and Private Partnerships in Biotechnology (K. Raman)
List of AGTEC Studies, Action Plans and Terms of Reference
About EMBRAPA
Procurement Plan/1997
Detailed Project Cost Tables
Vision Statement by EMBRAPA's Presidency- The National Agricultural Research System, January 1997



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                Page 46
Country: Brazil                                                                                                        Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Annex 9
Brazil
Agricultural Technology Development
Statement of Loans and Credits
A. Statement of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in Brazil (as of April 30, 1997)
Difference
Original Amount in US$ Millions                        Between actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                      and expected
Project ID  Credit No.   Year                Borrower                    Purpose             IBRD          IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed   Disbursements a/
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 187
BR-PE-6367   L26810         1986   FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF BRAZI  SALVADOR METRO DEVT                55.00        0.00            18.39          3.19                21.58
BR-PE-6431   L28100         1987   FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF BRAZI  SKILLS FORMATION                   74.50        0.00            58.90           .35                59.25
BR-PE-6360   L29500         19B8   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL           IRR SUB-SECTOR                195.00        0.00            26.00          3.27                29.27
BR-PE-6407   L31020         1999   SABESP                         WATER SCTR SAO PAULO          280.00        0.00             0.00          9.78                 9.78
BR-PE-6414    L30430        1989   COMGAS, SAO PAULO              NTRL GAS DIST                  94.00        0.00             0.00         18.94                18.94
BR-PE-6370   L30130         1989   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR  NE IRRI JAIBA                      71.00        0.00             0.00          7.85                 7.35
BR-PE-6446   L31730         1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR  NAT ENVIRONMT                     117.00        0.00             0.00         42.50                42.50
BR-PE-6453   L31700         1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR  NE IRRIG I                        210.00        0.00            69.00         68.39              137.39
BR-PE-6473   L31600         1990   STATE OF SANTA CATARINA        LND MGMT II-S. CATAR           33.00        0.00             0.00          9.94                 8.94
BR-PE-6403   L31350         1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR  NE BASIC HLTH SRV II              267.00        0.00            50.00         31.73                81.73
BR-PE-6442   128831         1990   ELETROBRAS                     ITAPARICA                     100.00        0.00             0.00          5.86                37.86
BR-PE-6492   L33760         1991   PETROBRAS              BRAZI  HYDROCARBN TRNSP/PRO           260.00        0.00             0.00         59.23                59.23
BR-PE-6364    L33750        1991   STATE OF SAO PAULO             INNOV BASIC ED                245.00        0.00             0.00        121.94              117.74
BR-PE-6505   L34920         1992   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL           MATO GROSSO NAT RES           205.00        0.00             0.00        117.05              107.05
BR-PE-6495   L34800         1992   GOB                    BRAZI  NATL IND POLLUTN                50.00        0.00             0.00         17.79                17.79
BR-PE-6379   L34570         1992   GOB                    BRAZI  METRO TRANSP.SPAULO            126.00        0.00             0.00         28.67               28.67
BR-PE-6368   L34420         1992   GOVERNMENT                     WATER SECTOR MODERNI          250.00        0.00             0.00        117.20                99.55
BR-PE-6547    L36330        1993   FED.RFP.OF BRAZIL              METRO TRANSP. RIO             128.50        0.00             0.00         67.86                59.60
BR-PE-6427    L36040        1993   MIN. OF EDUCATION   N          NE BASIC EDUC II              212.00        0.00             0.00         94.15                53.36
BR-PE-6540   L35540         1993   MINAS GERAIS ST.               WTR Q/PLN(MINAS GERA          145.00        0.00             0.00         83.91               82.61
BR-PE-6378   L35480         1993   STATE GOVERNMENTS              STATE HWY MGMT                 38.00        0.00            18.00         12.69               -7.31
BR-PE-6378   L35470         1993   STATE GOVERNMENTS              STATE HWY MGMT                 50.00        0.00             0.00         15.83                 9.00
BR-PE-6541   L35050         1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.            WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)          117.00        0.00             0.00         72.31              -44.69
BR-PE-6541   L35040         1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.            WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)         119.00         0.00            0.00          61.44              -57.56
BR-PE-6541   L35030         1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.            WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)            9.00        0.00             0.00          7.28                7.24
BR-PE-6522   L37670         1994   ST.OF ESPIRITO SANTO           ESP.SANTO WATER               154.00        0.00             0.00        121.05               63.75
BR-PE-6558   L37660         1994   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL             PARANA BASIC EDUC              96.00        0.00             0.00         77.23               29.05
BR-PE-6543   L37330         1994   GOVERNMENT                     M. GERAIS BASIC EDUC         150.00         0.00             0.00        119.63               44.63
BR-PE-6555   L37150         1994   STATE GOVTS                    STE HWY MGT II                 79.00        0.00            18.00         41.02              -19.98
BR-PE-6555   L37140         1994   STATE GOVTS                    STE HWY MGT II                 87.00        0.00             0.00         20.59              -66.41
BR-PE-6555    L37130        1994   STATE GOVTS                    STE HWY MGT II                 54.00        0.00            18.00         25.85               20.23
BR-PE-6452    L36630        1994   MINISTRY OF EDUCATION          NE BASIC EDUC III            206.60         0.00             0.00        114.75               54.22
BR-PE-6546   L36590         1994   GOVERNMENT                     AIDS CONTROL                  160.00        0.00             0.00         41.37               -3.18
BR-PE-6524    L36390        1994   ST.OF MINAS GERAIS             MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT           150.00        0.00             0.00         77.24               44.24
BR-PE-38885  L39190         1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                 RURAL POV.-SERGIPE             36.00        0.00             0.00         27.37                1.67
BR-PE-38884  L39180         1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                 RURAL POV.- CEARA              70.00        0.00            0.00          65.80               12.90
BR-PE-35717  L39170         1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                 RURAL POV. (BAHIA)           105.00         0.00            0.00          81.46                7.46
BR-PE-6564    L39160        1995   FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL            BELO H M.TSP                   99.00        0.00            0.00          91.40               22.16
BR-PE-38882  L39150         1995   FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL         RECIFE M.TSP                 102.00         0.00            0.00         100.71               24.71
BR-PE-6436   L37890         1995   STATE OF CEARA         ZIL    CEARA UR.DV/WATER CO          140.00         0.00            0.00         121.35               43.35
BR-PE-37828  L40600         1996   STATE OF PARANA                (PR)R.POVERTY                 175.00        0.00            0.00         175.00               20.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                              Page 47
Country: Brazil                                                                                                      Project Title: Agricultwual Technology Development Project
Difference
Original Amount in US$ Millions                       Between actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                    and expected
Project ID  Credit No.   Year               Borrower                    Purpose             IBRD         IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Disbursements a/
BR-PE-6554   L40470         1996   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL           HLTH SCTR REFORM             300.00        0.00             0.00        275.80                 5.80
BR-PE-40028  L40460         1996   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR  RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG            350.00        0.00             0.00        226.17                 1.17
BR-PE-6512   L39240         1996   CVRD                          ENV/CONS(CVRD)                50.00        0.00             0.00         36.86                  .04
BR-PE-43868  L41480         1997   STATE OF RGS                  RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY         100.00        0.00             0.00        100.00                 0.00
BR-PE-6475   L41470         1997   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL           LAND RFM PILOT                90.00        0.00             0.00         90.00                 0.00
BR-PE-6562   L41400         1997   STATE OF BAHIA                BAHIA MUN.DV                 100.00        0.00             0.00        100.00                 0.00
BR-PE-39196  L41390         1997   STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SU  RGS ST.REFORM                   125.00        0.00             0.00        125.00                0.00
BR-PE-42566  L41220         1997   STATE OF PERNAMBUCO           R.POVERTY(PE)                 39.00        0.00             0.00         39.00                0.00
BR-PE-43871  L41210         1997   STATE OF PIAUI                (PIAUI)R.POVERTY              30.00        0.00             0.00         30.00                0.00
BR-PE-38896  L41200         1997   STATE OF RGN                  R.POVERTY(RGN)                24.00        0.00             0.00         24.00                0.00
Total                                                                                       6,522.60        0.00           276.29      3,427.78
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                2,818.53           14,555.89           17,374.42
of which has been repaid:                 379.57            11,361.24           11,740.81
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                5,866.73            3,316.00             9,182.73
Amount sold                     :                  0.00                45.83               45.83
of which repaid              :                  0.00               45.83               45.83
Total Undisbursed               :              3,427.78               121.35            3,549.13
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP),
a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements
in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
c. Following the FY94 ARPP, "Implementation Progress' will be reported here.



Project Appraisal Docunent                                                                                        Page 48
Country: Brazil                                                    Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Table B: Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio As of 03/31/97
In Millions US$
Committed                                  Disbursed
IFC                                      1:FC C
FY                 Company                  Loan      Equity      Quasi    Partic    Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic
Approval
1966         Celucat                               0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0        0.00      0.00       0.00
1969         Celucat                               0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
1973         CODEMIN                               0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
1975         Oxiteno NE                            0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
1978         CODEMIN                               0.00        3.94       0.00       0.00      0.00       3.94      0.00       0.00
1980         DENPASA                                .29        1.00       0.00       0.00      .29         .96      0.00       0.00
1980         Ipiranp                               0.00        5.32       0.00       0.00      0.00       5.32      0.00       0.00
1980         OPP                                   0.00        1.64       0.00       0.00      0.00       1.64      0.00       0.00
1981         Brasilpar                             0.00         .04       0.00       0.00      0.00        .04      0.00       0.00
1981         COBRAPE                               .35         0.00       0.00       0.00      .35        0.00      0.00       0.00
1982         Cimento Caue                          0.00        3.26       0.00       0.00      0.00       3.26      0.00       0.00
1982         PISA                                  0.00        2.50       0.00       0.00      0.00       2.50      0.00       0.00
1983         CODEMIN                               0.00         .40       0.00       0.00      0.00        .40      0.00      0.00
1983         SOCOCO                                0.00        0.00       2.50       0.00      0.00       0.00      2.50       0.00
1984         PISA                                  0.00        1.40       0.00       0.00      0.00       1.40      0.00       0.00
1986         Cimento Caue                          0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
1986         PISA                                  0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
1987         Duratex                                .14        0.00       0.00        .35      .14        0.00      0.00       .35
1987         Ipiranga                              0.00        1.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       1.00      0.00       0.00
1987         MBR                                   1.43        0.00       0.00       0.00      1.43       0.00      0.00       0.00
1987         Perdigao                              0.00       10.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      10.00      0.00       0.00
1987         SP Alpargtas                          3.20        0.00       0.00        .80      3.20       0.00      0.00        .80
1988         OPP                                   1.87        0.00       0.00        .80      1.87       0.00      0.00        .80
1988         Unibanco                              0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
1989         Celuc-                                1.15        0.00       0.00       0.00      1.15       0.00      0.00      0.00
1989         COPENE                                9.09        0.00       0.00       0.00      9.09       0.00      0.00       0.00
1989         ELUMA                                 2.00        0.00       5.00       0.00      2.00       0.00      5.00      0.00
1989         Politeno Linear                       4.50        0.00       0.00       0.00      4.50       0.00      0.00       0.00
1990         Bahia Sul                            20.71       15.00       0.00       0.00     20.71      15.00      0.00       0.00
1990         ENGEPOL                               1.75        0.00       0.00       0.00      1.75       0.00      0.00      0.00
1990         Ripasa                                8.57        5.00       0.00       0.00      8.57       5.00      0.00      0.00
1991         Bahia Sul                             0.00        5.97       0.00       0.00      0.00       5.97      0.00       0.00
1991         Bradesco-AL                          26.03        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
1991         Bradeaco-Bahia                        6.75        0.00       0.00       0.00      6.75       0.00     0.00       0.00
1991         Bradesco-Eucatex                      7.50        0.00       0.00       0.00      7.50       0.00      0.00      0.00
1991         Bradesco-Petrofl                      7.50        0.00       0.00       0.00      7.50       0.00      0.00      0.00
1991         Bradesco-Romi                         3.18        0.00       0.00       0.00      3.18       0.00      0.00      0.00
1991         Rhodia-Ster                          12.86        5.95       0.00       0.00     12.86       5.95     0.00       0.00
1992         Bahia Sul                             0.00        0.00       0.00      15.00     0.00        0.00     0.00       15.00
1992         Brazil Inv. Fund                      0.00        3.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       3.00      0.00      0.00
1992         CRP-Caderi                            0.00        2.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        .75      0.00      0.00
1992         DENPASA                                .15        0.00        .12       0.00       .15       0.00       .05       0.00
1992         MBR                                  16.43        0.00      10.00      20.57     16.43       0.00     10.00     20.57
1992         TRIKEM                                0.00       12.86       0.00       0.00      0.00      12.86      0.00      0.00
1993         BACELL                               13.50       10.70       0.00      30.60     13.50      10.70      0.00      30.60
1993         CEBRACTEX                             3.00        4.00       0.00       0.00      3.00       4.00      0.00       0.00
1993         CEVAL                                25.93       10.00       0.00       1.57     25.93      10.00      0.00       1.57
1993         Macedo Alimentos                     20.83        0.00       0.00       0.00     20.83       0.00      0.00       0.00
1993         TRIKEM                                0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
1993         Votorantimn                          18.14        0.00       0.00       1.57     18.14       0.00      0.00       1.57
1994         CHAPECO                              10.00        0.00       0.00       0.00     10.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
1994         GAVEA                                10.94        0.00       5.50       0.00     10.94       0.00      5.50       0.00
1994         GPCapital                             0.00       19.51       0.00       0.00      0.00      18.64      0.00       0.00
1994         Pam Pigmentos                        30.00        9.00       0.00      35.00     25.50       8.14      0.00      29.75
1994         Portobello                           17.00        5.00       0.00       0.00     14.00       5.00      0.00       0.00
1994         S,AI.C.C.                             0.00        5.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       4.85      0.00       0.00
1994         Sadia                                26.00       10.00       0.00       1.86     26.00      10.00      0.00       1.86
1994         Unibanco                             25.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
1995         Bradesco-Hering                       7.50        0.00       0.00       0.00      7.50       0.00      0.00       0.00
1995         Brahma - BRA                         35.00        0.00       0.00     110.70     35.00       0.00      0.00     110.70



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          Page 49
Country: Brazil                                                     Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Committed                                   Disbursed
IFC                                       IFC
FY                  Company                  Loan      Equity       Quasi    Partic    Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic
ApprOval
1995         Cunbuhy/MC                            26.25        0.00       0.00       0.00     26.25       0.00       0.00       0.00
1995         Globocabo                             35.00       10.00       0.00     118.00     35.00       10.00      0.00     108.00
1995         Lojas Anmeicana                       28.00        0.00       5.00      20.00     28.00        0.00      5.00      20.00
1995         LATASA- Brazil                        19.67        0.00       0.00       4.50     19.67        0.00      0.00       4.50
1995         Politeno Ind.                         19.00        0.00       0.00       0.00     19.00        0.00      0.00       0.00
1995         Rhodiaco/PTA                          30.00        0.00       0.00      30.00     30.00        0.00      0.00      30.00
1995         Sadia                                  0.00        0.00       0.00      56.36      0.00        0.00      0.00      56.36
1996         Banco Liberal                         10.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00
1996         CEVAL                                 35.00        0.00      10.00     130.00     35.00        0.00     10.00     130.00
1996         CHAPECO                               15.00        0.00       0.00       5.00     15.00        0.00      0.00       5.00
1996         Duratex                                0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00
1996         Globocabo                              0.00        8.06       0.00       0.00      0.00        8.06      0.00       0.00
1996         Lightel                               25.00       10.00       0.00       0.00     25.00       10.00      0.00       0.00
1996         Mallory                                8.00        3.96       0.00       0.00      8.00        3.96      0.00       0.00
1996         MBR                                    0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00
1996         Oxiteno NE                            30.00        0.00       0.00       0.00     30.00        0.00      0.00       0.00
1996         Perdigao                              35.00        0.00       0.00      20.00     35.00        0.00      0.00      20.00
1996         S.AI.C.C.                              0.00        2.85       6.87       0.00      0.00        2.85      6.87       0.00
1996         TIGRE                                 25.00        0.00       5.00      23.50      0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00
1997         Duratex                               22.00        0.00       0.00      78.00     22.00        0.00      0.00      78.00
1997         Sadia                                 30.00        0.00      10.00     160.00     30.00        0.00     10.00     160.00
1997         Sucorrico                             15.00        0.00       0.00       0.00     15.00        0.00      0.00       0.00
1997         SP Alpargatas                         25.00        0.00       5.00       0.00      0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00
Pending Conmmitments
1996         * AGUAS LIMEIRA                       17.00        1.00       0.00      23.00
1997         * BOMPRECO                            25.00        0.00       5.00       0.00
1996         * BRADESCO CL                         40.00        0.00       0.00      60.00
1996         * CTBC                                25.00        0.00       0.00       0.00
1996         * GLOBOCABO II                         0.00        0.00       0.00      38.00
1997         ' IPIRANGA RI                          0.00         .32       0.00       0.00
1997         * NOVA DUTRA                          35.00        0.00       0.00      70.00
1997         * SAMARCO                             23.00        0.00       0.00      16.00
1997         * SP ALPARGATAS II                     0.00        0.00       0.00      30.00
1997         * WENTEX                              15.00       10.00       0.00      20.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                   Page 50
Country: Brazil                                                          Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Annex 10: Brazil at a glance
Latin Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        America  middle-
Brazil  & Carib. Income      Development diamond
Population rmi- 1995(mI/ons)                       161.       480      440
GNP pr capita 1995(USS)                            3.620    3.300    4,300                Life expectancy
GNP 19906bfi5hs USS)                               584.6    1,58     1.89
Average annual growth, 1990-95
Populaton(%)                                         1.       1.               GNP .Gro
Labortfrce(%)                                        1.       2.4      2.      per                           primary
MoAt recent *stimatateatyearavaleble shce                                      capita                      enrollment
Poverty: headcount indexX ofpopulaWbn)                1
Urban population(% of total popuiudon)               78        74       74
Lire expectancy at birtlWye)s)                       67        68       69
Infant mortaliy(perf 1,000 Ae                        55        4        36              Access to safe water
Child nalutrilion(X odchkn unrdr                      I
Acces to safe wate(% of populaton)                   92        8        89
lliteracy (% ofpopucdt, age                          1         1        1                Brazil
Gross prinmary nnroknenfd ofsdxroNe popu0aUn)        11       11       10
Male                                                                              -    pper-mkJnore group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
176    1986      1994    1996
GDP (bdNons USS)                          121.    222.9    554.6   675.0       Economic ratioe
Gross domtic Investment/^DP                26.8    19.       20.8    21.               Openness of eco
Expors of goods and non-fador services/GDP  7.5    12.        8.       6.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 22.9    24.4      22.4    21.
Gross national savings/GDP                 21.      19.      20.6    19.
Current account balance/GOP                -5.8    -0.2      -0.2    -2.6
Interest payments/GDP                       1.       3.3      0.9      1.      Savings                    investment
Total debt/GOP                             22.5    47.2      27.2    23.3
Total debt service/exports                 43.5    39.       31.      40.7
Present value of debt/GDP                                    25.2
Present vabue o debt/exports                                276.3                          Indebtedness
1976844  1986-96    1994     1996  1996-04
(aveag annua/ gswth)                                                               -     Braz//
GDP                                3.0      1.       5.8       4.2     5.3               Upper-___ncome group
GNP per capita                     0.2     -         3.7      3.7      3.8
Exports of goods and nfs          10.       6.2      7.7     -0.4      6.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1994    1996      Growth rates of outpuA and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agricuture                                 12.      11.       12.     12.      10
Industry                                   40.2    45.3      38.7    38.4       s
Manufaduring                              30.3    33.7      25.2    24.8      o       f
Servicss                                   47.7    43.       48.7    48.8                               93   94   95
Private consumption                        66.5    65.8      61.      62.      -to
General government consumpbon              10.       9.9     16.      16.               -     G0D     0  GDP
imnpots df goods and non-factor services   11.       7.       6.5      7.6
1976484  1986-96    19S4    1996
(avwge annual growth)                                                          Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                 4.2      2.3      7.6      5.9    40                                   0
Industry                                    3.0    -0.5       7.       2.0
Manufaduring                               2.6    -0.9       5.5      1.      20 
Services                                    2.9      3.0      4.4      5.7
Private consumption                         4.3      1.       7.2      7.9      o9
General govemeont consumptIon               0.8      2.3      -        2.4
Gross dormstic investment                  -3.2      0.2      8.5      9.2    -20
Imports of goods and non-fador services    -3.7      9.0     15.      37.3                    Expoft   0     rsoes
Gmrss nalional product                      2.5      1.       6.2      3.8
Note: 1995 data arm prelimiary
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with iks income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond
be



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                          Page 51
Country: Brazil                                                              Project Title: Agricultural Technology Development Project
Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1S76     1986      1994     1996
Do,mnec prkm
(X change)                                                                         30 DD
Conrrsnerprick                                29.1   226.9   2,8686       66.0 20
implicit GDP deftator                        33.9    231.7   2,284.0      67.4     2000
Govw7iMd nwvf~anc*
(X of GDf9 
Current revenue'                                         ..      24.6     29.7              00   01   62   a3   04    a
Current budget balance'                                  ..       5.2      0.4                     GP  rf   C P*
Overall surplILiadeftcit'                                ..       1.3     -5.0
TRADE
1976     1986      1994     1996       xport and Imoprt levels 1.i1  US$#
(millions USS)
Total exports (fob)                                  25,638    43,563   46,506      9,000
Coffee                                              2,607     1,942    2,850
Otherfood                                     ..   2,545      1,851    2,100
Manufactires                                   .   13,356    26,844   27,081
Total importB (elf)                                  13,153    33,133   49,663     2S00
Food                                           .        ..    4,740    7,500
Fuiel arnd eniergV                             .    6,176     4,695    5,103
Capital goode                                  .    2,480    11,906   18,200          0               _
Export price index (1987=100)                           97       116       121            so  90  DI  02  13  I0 0s
importpriceindex(1987=100).                             79       139       148                   eExpol EliInlports
Tema of trade (1987=100)                               123        84        82
BALANCE o1 PAYMENTS
1975     1986      1584     1886
(millions USS)                                                                      Current account bance to GDP rtIo (%)
Exports of goods and non-factor services    9,418   27,713    44,966   47,846       2
lmporteof goodsandnon-factorservices       14,323   16,928    36,187   53,516
Resource balance                            4,905   10,785      8,779   -5,670
Netfactorincome                             -2,106  -11,213   -12,580  -15,246     i-
Notcurrert trarsefrs                            0        0      2,597    3,513             ~     ~ ~
Current account belance,                                                           -2
before official transfers                 -7,011     -428    -1,203  -17,404
Financing items (net)                       5,946    1,842      8,203   30,450
Changes in net reserves                      1,065   -1,414    -7,000  -13,046     -4
Mario:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)         4,166   11,618    39,463   53,704
Conversion rate (locaUSS)                  3.OE-12  2.3E-09       0.6      09
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1985      1994     1996
(millions USS)                                                                     Composition of total d*bt. 1995 4mnlL US$1
Totaldebtoutstandinganddisbursed            27,329  105,187   151,104  157,397                        A   C
IBRD                                      1,045    5,274      6,311    6,038                      6038 142 D
IDA                                           0        0         0        0              G
30806             2575 E
Total debt service                           4,319   11,471    16,114   21,199                                  20419
IBRD                                         98      796      1,883    1,868
IDA                                           0        0         0        0
Compostion oi net resource flows
Oaficial grarts                               9       34        69        65
Cffcial creditors                         1,059      935    -2,116   -1,181
Prrvate creditors                         4,213      149      3,717     867
Foreign direct investment                 1,302    1,348      3,072    3,100                          F
Portfolio equity                              0        0      5,082    2,976                        89526
World BEank program
Commitments                                 538    1,525      1,024     404       A - IBRD                    E- Biidacari
Disbturserrents                             249      765       640      838       8 - IDA    a - Oew muriObal  F - PFiats
Principal repaymerits                        26      405      1,346    1,377      C - IUF                     G - Sho-rm
Net flows                                   224      359       -706     -539
Interest paymenbs                            72      391       537      491
Net trarnfers                               152       -32    -1,243   -1,030
Internabional Eoormoics Department                                                                                   8/20/96
Tax revenue.
2 Primary budget balance.
' Operational budget balance.















IMAGING
Report No.:         16520   BR
Type:      PAD



