Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4169-BR
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Technology Development  Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 29, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4169-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 29, 1997, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa 
Agropecuária (hereinafter referred to as EMBRAPA) with the Borrower's assistance, and 
the Borrower will make available to EMBRAPA the proceeds of the Loan as provided in 
this Agreement;
(C)
EMBRAPA is the coordinator of the Borrower’s National Agricultural 
Research System (hereinafter referred to as SNPA), a system established pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Law No. 8171, of January 17, 1991, and Portaria No. 193 of August 7, 
1992 of the then Borrower’s Minister of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, with the 
objective of, inter alia, harmonizing the Borrower’s directives and strategies for 
agricultural research with its developmental policies; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
EMBRAPA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, Subparagraph (k) is relettered as Subparagraph (l) and a 
new Subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
(d)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount. Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Annual Operating Plan" means each plan and respective budget referred to 
in Section 2.03 (b) of the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Beneficiary" means any entity in the public (including a Decentralized 
Unit, as such term is hereinafter defined) or private sector of the Borrower which is 
responsible for the carrying out of a Research Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
"Decentralized Unit" means any of the 39 national research centers and 
special service units of EMBRAPA;
(d)
"Executive Committee" means the committee referred to in Section 2.09 (c) 
Page  3
of the Project Agreement, established pursuant to Resolution (Deliberação) No. 09/97 
of April 14, 1997, of the Board of Executive Directors of EMBRAPA;
(e)
"MA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Supply;
(f)
"MIES" means a monitoring, information and evaluation system, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to provide information, including financial information, on 
Project implementation, as provided in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter 
defined);
(g)
"NAC" means the national advisory council referred to in Section 2.09 (a) 
of the Project Agreement, established pursuant to Resolution (Deliberação) No. 016/92, 
of August 24, 1992, of the Board of Executive Directors of EMBRAPA, and restructured 
pursuant to Normative Resolution No. 07/97, of April 9, 1997, of the President of 
EMBRAPA; 
(h)
"NAC Sub-Council" means the sub-council to the NAC referred to in Section 
2.09 (b) of the Project Agreement, established pursuant to Resolution (Deliberação) 
No. 08/97 of April 14, 1997, of the Board of Executive Directors of EMBRAPA;
(i)
"Operational Manual" means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, containing 
inter alia, the operating procedures for the execution of the Project, and the 
criteria for the selection of, and procedures for the carrying out of Research 
Subprojects; 
(j)
"PE Arrangement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 2.01 
(c) of the Project Agreement;
(k)
"Participating Entity" means a State Research Agency, a university or any 
other entity, as approved by the Bank from time to time, responsible for the carrying 
out of certain activities under Part B of the Project, which has entered into a PE 
Arrangement with EMBRAPA;
(l)
"Project Monitoring Letter" means the letter dated April 9, 1997 
delivered by EMBRAPA to the Bank, setting forth the indicators and targets to be used 
in the monitoring of the Project and in the evaluation of its results;
(m)
"Research Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by EMBRAPA to 
a Beneficiary, out of the proceeds of the Loan, in an amount not to exceed 75% of the 
cost of a Research Subproject (as hereinafter defined), to finance the carrying out of 
such Subproject in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual;
(n)
"Research Subproject" means a project approved by the NAC pursuant to the 
criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, consisting of the 
investments and other activities described in Part A of the Project, to be carried out 
by a Beneficiary and partially financed by a Research Grant; 
(o)
"Research Subproject Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to 
in Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement; 
(p)
"Satellite Communication System" means a satellite-based system of 
communications to be used in connection with the decentralization of EMBRAPA’s 
research management under Part B.2 of the Project;
(q)
"Special Account"  means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(r)
"State Research Agency" means an agricultural research entity controlled 
by, and located within the territory of, any of the Borrower’s states.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of sixty million dollars 
($60,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
Page  4
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Research Grant to meet the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required for the Research Subproject in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Page  5
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The President of EMBRAPA, or the person or persons designated by 
such President, are designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of  Section 
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall 
cause EMBRAPA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources necessary 
or appropriate to enable EMBRAPA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower, through MA, shall make the proceeds of the Loan available 
to EMBRAPA through annual budgetary allocations to ensure the timely execution of the 
Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08, 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by EMBRAPA pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
Page  6
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
EMBRAPA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement,  an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that EMBRAPA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
The Estatutos (Charter) of EMBRAPA, approved by Decree No. 75.374 of the 
Borrower, dated February 14, 1975, shall have been amended so as to affect materially 
and adversely the ability of EMBRAPA to carry out the covenants, agreements and 
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of EMBRAPA or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Operational Manual has been adopted by EMBRAPA; and
(b)
this Agreement has been registered by the Central Bank of Brazil.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions,  to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that this Agreement has been registered by the Central Bank of Brazil; 
and
(b)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, EMBRAPA, and is legally binding upon EMBRAPA in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date December 1, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  7
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda Edifício Ministério da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministérios Bloco "P"
70048-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5º andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuária
SAIN - Parque Rural - W3 Norte
Edifício Sede da EMBRAPA
70770-901 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
612074
611620
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.            64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Ana Lúcia Gatto de Oliveira
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE l
Page  8
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts  of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Loan
   % of
    Allocated (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Research Grants
   36,000,000
100% of the amount
disbursed
(2)
For Part B of the
Project:
(a) Goods
    2,800,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 30%
of local 
expenditures
(b) Works
    2,000,000
30%
(c) Consultants'
    5,100,000
100% of foreign
Services
expenditures
(d) Training
   10,200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 35%
of local 
expenditures
(3) Incremental
400,000
5%
Operating Costs
(3)
Satellite
    2,400,000
100% of foreign
Communication
expenditures and 100% of
System under Part
local expenditures 
(ex-
B.2 of the Project
factory cost)
(4)
Unallocated
    1,100,000
TOTAL
   60,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means any expenditure (excluding 
consultants’  services) made for the monitoring, supervision and evaluation of the 
Project. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,  no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$6,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2) and (3) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 above on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after January 1, 1997 or a date twelve months before the date of this Agreement, 
whichever is later; and
(b)
payments made under: (i) the first three Research Subprojects costing 
less than $40,000 equivalent each; (ii) the first three Research Subprojects costing 
more than $40,000 and less than $500,000 equivalent each; (iii) Research Subprojects 
costing the equivalent of $500,000 or more each; unless the Bank has approved each of 
Page  9
those Research Subprojects.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under Research Subprojects (except 
under those referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule); (b) under contracts for: 
(i) goods or works costing less than $350,000 equivalent; (iii) services of consulting 
firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (iv) services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (c) for Incremental Operating 
Costs and training, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to increase efficiency and sustainability of 
resource use in the SNPA, in order to address SNPA’s deficiencies in the areas of  
competitiveness, environmental sustainability and poverty alleviation, by: (a) 
stimulating the transition in the SNPA from its current heavy reliance on public 
sector research to a more integrated and diversified research system, such transition 
to be reflected through a more diversified source of funding and increased range of 
research participants; (b) increasing the participation of agricultural research 
clients in the definition of technology transfer and implementation; and (c) creating, 
developing and disseminating knowledge and technologies for the Borrower’s 
agricultural, forestry and agro-industrial sectors.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Development of Technology
Provision of Research Grants to finance projects consisting of, inter alia: 
1.
generation and transfer of biotechnology and other advanced agricultural and 
agro-industrial technologies; 
2.
generation and transfer of technologies aiming at increasing the international 
agricultural competitiveness of the Borrower’s agriculture and agro-industries;
3.
generation and transfer of appropriate technologies for small and medium size 
family-operated farms; 
4.
generation and transfer of technologies for natural resources management, 
monitoring and evaluation; and
5.
generation and transfer of technologies on strategic agricultural research areas 
related to social and environmental issues.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening and Reorientation
1.
Carrying out of strategic studies and development of action plans in support of 
diversification, decentralization and sustainability of the SNPA.
2.
Provision of consulting services, training, laboratory and office equipment and 
infrastructure, and the implementation of the Satellite Communication System; all for 
the purposes of assisting EMBRAPA in decentralizing its research management functions 
from EMBRAPA’s headquarters to the Decentralized Units and to the Project Entities.
3.
Provision of training activities in several Project-related areas including, 
inter alia: (a) intellectual property rights; (b) plant variety protection; (c) 
biotechnology; (d) World Trade Organization agricultural rules; (e) 1992 Convention on 
Biological Diversity; and (f) negotiation and implementation of international 
contracts.
4.
Strengthening international research collaboration by SNPA entities with the  
Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research Centers and other advanced 
research institutions, through staff exchanges, study tours and training.
5.
Strengthening of the research and technology transfer capabilities of State 
Research Agencies through: (a) the carrying out of studies and training in the areas 
of, inter alia, research financing, human resource management and administrative 
reforms, and seed production services; and (b) provision of laboratory and office 
Page  10
equipment and infrastructure.
6.
Establishment and operation of the MIES through the carrying out of studies and 
the provision of consulting services, and office equipment. 
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
      On each May 15 and November 15
            beginning November 15, 2002
            through May 15, 2012
3,000,000
____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as 
of the 
respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentageper annum) applicable 
to 
the Loan on the day of 
prepayment, multiplied 
by:
Not more than three years
      before maturity
0.20
More than three years but 
      not more than six years
      before maturity
0.40
More than six years but
Page  11
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
0.73
More than eleven years but
      not more than thirteen years
      before maturity
0.87
More than thirteen years
      before maturity
1.00
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$8,000,000, or such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $12,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  12
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
