Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4169-BR
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Technology Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE PESQUISA AGROPECUÁRIA
Dated August 29, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4169-BR 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 29, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE PESQUISA AGROPECUÁRIA (EMBRAPA).
WHEREAS (A)  by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty million dollars 
($60,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that EMBRAPA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available by the Borrower, through MA, to EMBRAPA, through annual budgetary 
allocations; and
WHEREAS EMBRAPA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Page  2
Section 2.01. (a) EMBRAPA declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with: (i) 
the Operational Manual; (ii) the Annual Operating Plans; and (iii) appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental, agricultural, engineering, and scientific 
research policies standards and practices, and substantially in accordance with the 
targets set forth in the Annex to the Project Monitoring Letter, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of the carrying out of Part A of the Project, EMBRAPA 
shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank (the Research Subproject 
Agreement) with each Beneficiary, for the provision of a Research Grant to such 
Beneficiary, and to govern such Beneficiary’s participation in the carrying out of a 
Research Subproject.
(c)
Whenever any of the activities described in Part B of the Project 
requires the participation of a Participating Entity for its carrying out, EMBRAPA 
shall enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank (the PE Arrangements), with 
each Participating Entity to govern such Participating Entity’s participation in the 
carrying out of such corresponding Project activity.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. EMBRAPA shall:
(a)
not later than October 31 of each year during Project implementation, 
furnish to the Bank a draft operating plan and budget, satisfactory to the Bank, for 
the Project activities to be carried out during the next succeeding calendar year; and
(b)
not later than 30 days after the approval of the Borrower’s budget by its 
Congress, furnish to the Bank the approved annual operating plan and budget (the 
Annual Operating Plan) for the Project activities to be carried in such succeeding 
calendar year.
Section 2.04. EMBRAPA shall:
(a)
without limitation to Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, furnish to 
the Bank, not later than March 31 and August 31 of each year until the completion of 
the Project, reports of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably 
request on the progress of the Project during the previous first and second calendar 
semesters, respectively, such progress to be assessed on the basis of the targets and 
indicators set forth in the Annex to the Project Monitoring Letter. The report to be 
submitted not later than March 31 of each year shall also consolidate the information 
regarding progress of the Project during the previous calendar year; and 
(b)  
without limitation to Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, hold 
reviews of the progress of the Project with the Bank in the months of April and 
September of each year during Project implementation (the review to take place in 
September of the year 2000 to be the mid-term review), such reviews to be based on the 
reports referred to in paragraph (a) above and, thereafter, take or cause to be taken 
all such action which shall have been agreed upon by EMBRAPA and the Bank during the 
reviews referred to in this paragraph, as necessary for the efficient execution of the 
Project or the achievement of its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner 
and within the timetable agreed upon during such reviews.
Section 2.05. (a) EMBRAPA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services,  plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, EMBRAPA shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Bank and EMBRAPA, a plan for the future operation of the 
Page  3
Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
EMBRAPA on said plan.
Section 2.06. EMBRAPA shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Research Subproject Agreements and the PE Arrangements in such a manner as 
to protect the interests of EMBRAPA, the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EMBRAPA shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of such Research Subproject 
Agreements and PE Arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. EMBRAPA shall:
(a)
maintain the NAC with composition, responsibilities, and structure 
satisfactory to the Bank, including responsibility for: (i) proposing long term 
strategies for the Borrower’s agricultural research and development system; (ii) 
proposing modification to policies and programs related to research activities based 
on the Project’s experience; (iii) promoting and mobilizing sources of funding for 
agricultural research and development; (iv) reviewing agricultural research 
priorities; (v) advising EMBRAPA on, and assessing, the implementation of the Project, 
including the approval, or delegation for approval by the NAC Sub-Council, of 
proposals for Annual Operating Plans, Research Subprojects and of the technical and 
financial reports related to the Project; and (vi) approving the members of both the 
NAC Sub-Council and the Executive Committee;
(b)
maintain a sub-council to the NAC (the NAC Sub-Council) with composition, 
responsibilities and structure satisfactory to the Bank, including the responsibility 
for making recommendations with respect to the actions required under paragraph (a) 
(v) of this Section; and
(c)
maintain a committee (the Executive Committee) with composition, 
responsibilities and structure satisfactory to the Bank, including responsibility for: 
(i) managing the selection process of Research Subprojects, including the development 
of a roster of reviewers of Research Subproject proposals; (ii) evaluating, ranking 
and recommending Research Subproject proposals for funding, through the appointment, 
when necessary, of sub-committees for reviewing Research Subproject proposals; (iii) 
monitoring the flow of funds to Research Subprojects; and (iv) monitoring and 
evaluating Research Subprojects all in accordance with the Operational Manual.
Section 2.08.  EMBRAPA shall:
(a)
not later than one month after the Effective Date, put into effect the 
financial and physical monitoring components of MIES; and
(b)
not later than six months after the Effective Date, put into effect the 
remaining components of MIES.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EMBRAPA
Section 3.01. EMBRAPA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs  in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, 
agricultural and scientific research policies, standards and practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. EMBRAPA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to  time,  promptly as needed,  
make all necessary repairs and renewals  thereof, all  in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, agricultural and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. EMBRAPA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) EMBRAPA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
Page  4
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, including separate accounts in respect of the Project.
(b)
EMBRAPA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of EMBRAPA 
hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify EMBRAPA thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
For EMBRAPA:
Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuária
SAIN - Parque Rural - W3 Norte
Edifício Sede da EMBRAPA
70.770 - 901 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Page  5
Telex:
61 20 74
61 16 20
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EMBRAPA, may 
be taken or executed by the President of EMBRAPA or such other person or persons as 
the President of EMBRAPA shall designate in writing, and EMBRAPA shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE PESQUISA 
    AGROPECUÁRIA
By /s/ Ana Lúcia Gatto de Oliveira 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C.2 of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for computers and contracts for vehicles 
Page  6
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
The Satellite Communication System shall be procured under a contract or 
contracts, as the case may be, awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods (other than goods under Research Subprojects) estimated to cost $100,000 
equivalent or more per contract, but less than $350,000 equivalent per contract may, 
and works (other than works under Research Subprojects) estimated to cost $350,000 
equivalent or more per contract shall, be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the 
procurement of goods and works under this Part C.1, bidding documents in a 
standardized form for the Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be 
undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank 
in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
3.
International or National Shopping
(a)
Goods (other than goods under Research Subprojects) estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $13,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods under Research Subprojects may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
(a)
Works (other than works under Research Subprojects) estimated to cost 
less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $5,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis 
of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
(b)
Works under Research Subprojects may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three 
Page  7
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $350,000 or more, and the contract or contracts, as the case may be, 
related to the acquisition of the Satellite Communication System, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:
Other
For purposes of the Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import taxes 
includes the Guarantor’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
(Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação da Marinha Mercante - AFRMM), established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 1142 of December 30, 1970, as amended on 
December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of 
the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services (other than those referred to in paragraph 3 of this Part C) estimated 
to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Commercial Practices
Page  8
Services to assist Beneficiaries in carrying out Research Subprojects under Part 
A of the Project and estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent may be procured 
in accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for such contracts (except those 
under Research Subprojects) and any single-source selection of consulting firms shall 
be subject to the Bank’s prior approval.
