                                                Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                 Report No: 33484-UZ




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                     ONA

                                           PROPOSEDCREDIT

                              INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 10.1MILLION
                                  (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                   TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN

                                                    FOR A

        BASIC EDUCATIONPROJECTINSUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF A
            US$40 MILLIONEQIIVALENTADAPTABLE LENDINGPROGRAM

                                            September22,2006




 Human Development Sector Unit (ECSHD)
 Europe and Central Asia Region
 Central Asia Country Unit



This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in the performance o f their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate EffectiveAugust 31,2006)

                               CurrencyUnit      = Sum
                                         1 Sum = US$O.OOl
                                          US$    = 1,228 Sum

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1      - December31

                          ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
ADB     Asian DevelopmentBank
APL     Adaptable ProgramLending
ECA     Europe and CentralAsia
FMS     FinancialManagementSpecialist
FAD     Finance and AccountingDepartment
GDP     Gross DomesticProduct
ISN     InterimStrategyNote
MoF     Ministryof Finance
IDA     InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
LSA     Living StandardAssessment
M&E     Monitoring andEvaluation
MHE     Ministry of Higher Education
MIS     ManagementInformation System
MOE     Ministryof Economy
MPE     MinistryofPublic Education
NGO     Non-GovernmentalOrganization
NPPT    NationalProgramPersonnelTraining
OECD    Organizationfor EconomicCooperationandDevelopment
PAD     ProjectAppraisal Document
PC      ProjectCoordinator
PDO     ProjectDevelopmentObjective
PEAKS   ProjectExcellenceAchieved throughKnowledgeSystems
PER     Public ExpenditureReview
PHRD    Policy andHumanResourcesDevelopmentFund
PISA    Programfor InternationalStudentAssessment
PIU     ProjectImplementationUnit
POM     ProjectOperations Manual
PS      Project Specialist
PTU     ProfessionalTechnical Schools
SEDP    School EducationDevelopmentProgram
SIL     Sector InvestmentLoan
SWAP    Sector-wideApproach
TACIS   TechnicalAssistance of Critical Import Services
TOR     Terms of Reference
UNICEF  UnitedNations InternationalChildren'sEmergencyFund
USAID   United States Agency for Internationaldevelopment
WB      World Bank
WISP    WelfareImprovementStrategy


                              Vice President:          Shigeo Katsu
                     Acting Country Director:          Annette Dixon
                              Sector Director:         Charles C. Griffin
                      Acting Sector Manager:           Charles C. Griffin
                           Task Team Leader:           Ernest0 P. Cuadra

                                                      UZBEKISTAN
                                                BASICEDUCATION

                                                        CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                            Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE......................................................................                                     5
  1. Country and sector issues....................................................................................................            5
  2. Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                 6
  3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ....................................................                            7

B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION..................................................................................................... 7
  1. Lending instrument.............................................................................................................          7
  2. Program objective and Phases ............................................................................................                7
  3. Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                           8
  4. Project components.............................................................................................................          9
  5. Lessons learnedandreflected inthe project design..........................................................                               17
  6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................................                           17

C.  IMPLEMENTATION...........................................................................................................                 18
  1. Partnership arrangements..................................................................................................               18
  2. Institutional and implementation arrangements.,..............................................................                            18
  3. Monitoring and evaluation................................................................................................                19
  4. Sustainability ....................................................................................................................     20
  5. Critical risks and possible controversialaspects:..............................................................                         21
  6. Board Conditions: ............................................................................................................. 23
  7. Effectiveness Condition: ...................................................................................................            23
  8. Disbursement Condition: ..................................................................................................              23

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY...................................................................................................                      23
  1. Economic and financial analyses ......................................................................................                  23
  2. Technical...........................................................................................................................    25
  3. Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................   25
  4. Social ................................................................................................................................ 26
  5. Environment......................................................................................................................       26
  6. Safeguardpolicies.............................................................................................................          26
  7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                   27

Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground.................................................................                         28

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies ...........................                                      35

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring............................................................................... 37

Annex 4: Detailed ProjectDescription ..........................................................................................           41

Annex 5: Project Costs................................................................................................................... 70

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements .......................................................................................               71

Annex 7: FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements..............................................                                  75

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements ............................................................................................            83

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................................                88

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues................................................................................................         99

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision .......................................................................... 100

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File....................................................................................                101

Annex 13: Statement o f Loans and Credits .................................................................................               102

Annex 14: Country at a Glance....................................................................................................         104

Annex 15: Letter of Development Policy ...................................................................................                106


MAP IBRD33508

                                      UZBEKISTAN

                                   BASIC EDUCATION

                          PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                            EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

                                          ECSHD

Date: September 22, 2006                            Team Leader: Ernest0 P. Cuadra
Acting Country Director: Annette Dixon              Sectors: Primary education (100%)
Sector Director: Charles C. Griffin                 Themes: Education for all (P)
Project ID: PO94042                                 Environmental screening category: Not Required
Lending Instrument:Adaptable ProgramLending         Safeguard screening category: N o Impact




[ ] Loan   [XICredit   [ ] Grant   [ ] Guarantee        [ 3 Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): SDR 10.1 million (equiv. inUS$15 million)
Proposed terms: Standard IDA terms




Recipient:
Republic o f Uzbekistan
5 Mustakillik Maidoni
Tashkent, 700008
ReDublic of Uzbekistan




                                              1

Responsible Agency:
Ministryo fPublic Education
80 Uzbelustan street, 700027
Republic o f Uzbelustan



FY              2007       2008
Annual           6.8         8.2
Cumulative       6.8        15.0




Project development objective Ref; PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3

The Adaptable Program Lending (APL) will last four years (2006-2010) with implementation in two
phases. Phase one o f the program will span one year and a half. To provide continuity o f program
interventions, the start o f phase two will overlap by about six months with phase one. However, phase
two will only start ifthe triggers described below have been met.

Program objectives. The program will support Uzbekistan's efforts to improve effectiveness o f teaching
ingeneral secondary education andpre-schools inorder to provide students with the new knowledge and
skills required inthe contemporary global economy.

Project development objectives. During phase one, the project development objective i s to improve
learning conditions in pre-school and the first four grades o f general secondary education. This will be
achieved by increasing the availability o f teaching and learning materials in schools located inrural poor
areas, enhancing the capacity o f teacher training institutions to introduce school based teacher training
strategies, increasing community involvement in school decision making, creating the conditions for a
successful introduction o f school per-capita funding, and building project implementation, managerial
and monitoring and evaluation capacity inthe Ministryo f Public Education (MPE).

Triggers. The second phase will be initiated under two conditions: (i)       school boards in at least 75
percent o f project schools have participated in school needs assessment and prioritization o f learning
materials; and (ii)  standardized student assessments have been piloted in a representative sample o f
students inproject and non-project schools.




                                                  2

Project description Re$ PAD B.3.a, TechnicalAnnex 4
The proposedBasic EducationProjectwill have five main components:

Component 1. Provision of Learning Materials and Resources for Grades one to four of General
Schools andPre-Schools. (Total estimated cost US$9.8 million)

The objective o f this component i s to improve the quality o f teaching and learning in selected and grades
schools by providingthem with modem, low cost and highimpact learning materials and resources. This
i s to be done in full alignment with the priorities and on-going activities of the School Education
Development Program (2004-2009) and in coordination with education projects supported by other
donors also focused on equipping schools with teaching and learningresources, materials and aids.

Component 2.         Strengthening of In-Service Training for Teachers and Principals in General
Secondary Schools and Pre-Schools (Total estimated cost US$3.8 million)

The objective of this component is to increase the capacity of the Republican Institute for Pre-School
Teacher Training and the Republican Institute for Teacher Training to provide training to a larger number
o f teachers inany given year. This will be done by developing ability and expertise inthese Institutes for
conducting school based teacher training. The component will also help strengthen the material capacity
o f rayon methodological centers and school teachers' rooms to develop and produce child centered
learningmaterialsbyproviding them with appropriate workstations and audiovisual equipment.

Component 3. Support activation of school boards (Total estimated cost US$0.17 million)

The objective o fthis component is to contribute to the improvement of school environment and students'
learning achievement by strengthening and stimulating community participation in school needs
assessment and prioritization for selection o f learning materials. It will support the establishment and
operation of School Boards as an instrument for the implementation o f the National "Oila-Mahalla-
Maktab"' Concept. The component activities will build on experience gained during the implementation
o f similar initiatives carried out under different donor supported projects (UNICEF and USAID-PEAKS)
insupport of school community mobilization. Itwill support activities relatedto components one.

Component 4.         Improvements in Education Finance, Budgeting Management, and Accounting
(Total estimated cost US$0.89 million).

The objective o f this component is to ascertain an appropriate formula, design an implementation plan,
prepare training materials, and put all necessary legal and institutional prerequisites in place to support
the introduction of per-capita funding inBukhara oblast duringphase two o f the program. This work will
lay the groundwork for expanding per capita financing inthe education sector.

 Component 5: Support for Project Management and Results Management
(Total estimated cost US$0.44 million).

The objective o f this component is to enhance the capacity o f line units o f the MPE to coordinate and
implementthe Basic Education Project, and in so doing, strengthen the capacity of the MPE and other
education institutions to manage, implement,monitor and evaluate the impact of education interventions.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD D.6, Technical Annex 10
EnvironmentalAssessment, Category C


' "Family-Community-School'' Concept

                                                    3

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.6-9
NIA

CreditEffectiveness:

   -    Ministry of Public Education adopts Revised Project Operations Manual satisfactory to the
        Association.




                                                  4

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE
  1. Country andsector issues

1.       Uzbelustan i s the fifth largest country in terms o f territory in the former Soviet Union,
and with 26 million inhabitants, the third largest population. It gained independence in 1991 and
in 2005 the Atlas Gross National Income (GNI) per capita was estimated at US$520. The
authorities have chosen a gradual reform path, aimed at social stability, which is based on strong
preferences for national independence, government control, and self-sufficiency.            This places
Uzbelustan as one o f the transition economies2 that does not have a high pace o f reform. The
country has a predominantly and growing rural population - 63 percent o f the total population
lives inrural areas- and most of the poor are rural dwellers.

2.       Uzbekistan's economic strategy includes a strong focus on the maintenance o f basic
public services. Education spending for 2006 i s projected to account for around 29.5 percent o f
the total budget, and to reach 9.7 percent o f Gross Domestic Product (GDP), as a result education
spending in Uzbekistan i s considerably above the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) average. The current situation is, however, a late response to the relative
neglect experienced by the education sector during the early 1990's.             Real expenditures for
education fell early in the transition, and only recovered to pre-transition levels during the past
four years. Nonetheless, questions remain about the efficiency and labor market relevance o f the
current highpublic spending on education.

3.       Inparticular, until recently, education expenditure concentrated on new programs to
upgrade secondary vocational education, while acute funding shortages remained in general
education (grades 1-11). The centerpiece o f the Government's education reform was the National
Program for Personnel Training (NPPT), launched in 1997. This program fundamentally
restructured secondary and higher education with the intention o f providing the new skills
required in the global e ~ o n o m y .At ~ the same time, it aimed to raise the skill levels o f future
labor-market entrants by extending the duration o f compulsory education from nine years to
twelve years.

4.       Meanwhile, enrollment and attendance rates ingeneral education remain highat above 96
percent for all communities, with small variation by geographic location, and only 2-3 percentage
point difference between the communities with the highest and lowest rates. The main factors
that hinder improvement o f learningheaching quality in general secondary schools are lack o f
teachers' professional competence to promote active engagement by students in their own
learning, insufficient and outdated equipment in classrooms and special rooms, poor provision o f
modem teaching aids, and ineffective use o f available teaching aids and information technologies
(see section D.l and Annex 9 for detailed information). Few schools have been able to create a
stimulating atmosphere to encourage students to be masters o f their learning and teachers to apply
new teachindlearning methods, and to cooperate and to share best practice. And those few



  The European Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment (EBRD)transition indicators show very little
movement inreform essentially since 1999, the World Bank's Country Policy and InstitutionalAssessment
(CPIA) ratings recorded some marginal improvements in2004 largely due to macroeconomic stabilization
and initial steps to improve public finance management, but saw a mild decline in2005. Other sources o f
informationinclude the Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS), the IFC's
annual SME survey, the World Bank's Governance Indicators, and the Bertelsmann Foundation
Transformation Index.
  Shavkat Kurbanov and Edem Seitkhalilov, National Program for Personnel Training: the Basis for the
Achievement o f Strategic Goals, UNESCO, September, 2000.

                                                    5

schools that have are not inthe rural areas where most o f the schools are located and the majority
o f the population resides.

5.       There are also definite disparities in human and material resource endowment between
urban and rural schools. Schools in rural communities that are remote from both the rayon and
oblast center fare the worst, in many instances receiving as little as half the share that is received
in urban schools. For instance, only 38 percent o f schools in these communities have sufficient
numbers o f rooms or desks, as compared to roughly 80 percent inurban schools. Inaddition only
37 percent o f schools have sufficient number o f teaching manuals as compared with 64 percent in
urban areas -the latter by no means an acceptable level. The urbadrural disparities inschool and
teacher characteristics have a disproportionate effect on the poor, primarily because poverty i s
more prevalent inrural areas (29.8 percent in2003, comparedto 22.6 percent inurban areas).

6.       A new School Education Development Program (SEDP), adopted by Presidential
decree in M a y 2004, focuses on general education. It comprises a major program o f school
rehabilitation and construction, provision o f educational materials and equipment (including IT
and internet access), and training o f teachers and school principals. Accompanying the major
investments under the program are significant salary increases for teachers and school principals,
some o f which are performance-based. Salary increases adopted since the start o f the program
reportedly average over 50 percent. The investment costs o f the program are estimated at US$1.2
billion over the projected 2004-2009 implementationperiod. The program i s to be financed by a
combination of donor and budget financing, the central feature o f which i s a new earmarked sales
tax o f 1 percent. This new tax i s expected to generate additional revenues of 150 to 170 billion
soums per year. Donor financing o f about US$82 millionhas also been pledged in support o f the
program, and more i s being sought.

  2. Rationale for Bankinvolvement

7.       Recent developments inthe area of governance have led the Bank to reappraise its mode
o f support under current conditions. The present Interim Strategy Note (ISN) reflects the Bank's
concerns that in the existing environment in Uzbekistan it may be difficult for the Bank's
financial assistance to achieve sustainable results on the ground. Accordingly, the Bank focuses
inthe current ISN on technical assistance and advisory services, with lending limited to global
public goods and support for basic social services. The I S N i s designed as a transitory assistance
framework, valid indicatively for a period o f 12-15 months, and includes a review mechanism at
the end o f that period specifying a few preconditions that would need to be met for the Bank to
reconsider the return to a standard assistance Eramework.

8.       The Bank maintained policy dialogue on education sector policies through a Living
Standard Assessment (LSA) and Public Expenditure Review (PER) persuading the government to
shift the focus o f their education programs towards general school education. Prior to 2004, the
government invested mainly in secondary professional education while general school education
was largely neglected. A major breakthrough took place in M a y 2004 when the Government put
forward the School Education Development Program shifting the focus to general education. The
present project will be the first Bank-financed education operation in Uzbelustan. The I S N
proposes to use the opportunity o f this project to test a new mode o f engagement with the
government, whereby local citizens, stakeholders, and project beneficiaries are more closely and
directly involved inproject design and monitoring. To this end, the project will be approved and
implementedintwo phases, the first phase coinciding with the timeframe o f the ISN.

9.       The proposed operation supports the implementation o f the School Education
Development Program described above. While the Government o f Uzbelustan i s focusing its


                                                  6

resources on school rehabilitation and construction, international financial institutions such as the
Asian Development Bank and the Islamic Development Bank and bilateral donors are providing
support to other Program components. This APL i s complementary to ongoing reforms in the
education sector while at the same time it strengthens pro-poor aspects o f the Government's
SEDP by targeting the rural poor.

  3. Higherlevel objectivesto which the project contributes

10.      Investing in general secondary education will support growth and social
development. One o f main pillars o f Uzbelustan's Welfare Improvement Strategy (WIS) is to
strengthen human development and social protection. Thus, the WIS highlights the need to
continue to focus on providing people access to quality educationand to increase the efficiency in
the use o f public resources. The proposed project will contribute towards producing general
secondary graduates with relevant competencies and slulls while at the same time ensuring that
the education budget i s managed inan efficient manner.


B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

  1. Lendinginstrument

11.      The proposed operations i s a four year Adaptable Program Lending (APL) to be
implemented in two phases financed by a sector investment credit provided by the credit arm o f
the World bank (IDA), which i s consistent with the Interim Strategy Note endorsed by the Board
o f Directors o f the World Bank in July 27, 2006. It will assist the Government o f Uzbelustan to
implement and finance the School Education Development Program approved in May 2004
which i s summarized in the Letter o f Development Policy presented in Annex 15. The estimated
total cost o f the APL i s US$40 million with the estimated cost o f Phase One US$15.1 million.
This is the first education operation to be financed by IDA in Uzbekistan and as such it should
help to buildfoundations for future cooperation to foster educationreform.

  2. Programobjective andPhases

12.      The program will support Uzbelustan's efforts to improve effectiveness o f teaching in
general secondary education and pre-schools inorder to provide students with the new knowledge
and skills required in the contemporary global economy. It will achieve this by enhancing the
availability o f learning and teaching materials in schools; improve teachers' skills and
competencies to use child centered teaching strategies; increase community participation in
school decision making; improve efficiency o f resource utilization and allocation; and develop
result-based managerialand monitoring capacity inthe Ministry o f Public Education.

13.      The APL will support a plan o f activities to be implemented in two phases over a period
o f four years. The objective o f Phase I i s to improve learning conditions in pre-school and the
first four grades o f general secondary education. It will achieve this objective by: (i) increasing
the availability o f teaching and learning materials in pre-school and in all grade one to four
classes in schools located in rural poor areas; (ii)   enhancing the capacity o f teacher training
institutions to introduce school based teacher training strategies; (iii)increasing community
involvement in school decision making; (iv) creating the conditions for a successful introduction
o f school per-capita funding; and (v) building project implementation, managerial, and
monitoring and evaluation capacity inthe MPE.




                                                  7

14.      Triggers. The second phase will be initiated under two conditions: (i) boards inat
                                                                                  school
least 75% o f project school have participated in school needs assessment and prioritization o f
learning materials; and (ii) standardized student assessments have been piloted in a representative
sample o f students inbothproject as well as non-project schools.

15.      Phase 2 will consolidate the gains achieved duringphase one by expanding the provision
o f learning materials to all grades in general secondary education and by promoting the
involvement o f school on the preparation and implementation o f school improvement projects.
Also duringphase two the in-service teacher training institutions will used their newly developed
capabilities to bringtraining directly to schools and the MPE will scale up the introduction o f per-
capita fundingto all rayons o f Bukhara oblast. The MPE will use its newly strengthened capacity
for conducting student assessment to begin assessing the impact o f the program.


  3. Project developmentobjectiveand key indicators

16.      The overall objective o f this program i s to improve effectiveness o f teaching in general
secondary education and pre-schools located in targeted poor areas and the capacity o f the MPE
to efficiently allocate resources, to monitor its investment programs and to evaluate the impact o f
its programs. Duringphase one, the project will contribute to the achievement o f this objectives
by improving the provision o f teaching and learning materials inpre-school and ingrades one to
four o f general secondary schools located in poor areas; stimulating the participation o f school
boards in school needs assessment and selection o f teaching materials; modernizing and
strengthening the capacity o f in-service teacher training institution to use school based teacher
training strategies in pre-school and general secondary school and to promote the use o f child
centered teaching strategies; laying the groundwork for expanding per capita financing; and
improving the capacity o f the MPE to implement and monitor investment programs and to
conduct impact evaluation.

17.      Progress towards the achievement o f these objectives will be measured through the
following key development indicators:

Objective 1: Improve teaching conditions in pre-school and in grades one to four of general
secondaly schools.
     0   At least 75% schools have school board fully involvedinschool needs assessment and in
         selection o f teaching and learning materials. This i s a trigger indicator for moving to
         phase two;

Objective 2: Modernize and strengthen the capacity of the Republican Institutefor Pre-School
and the Republican Institutefor Teacher Training.
         A total 163 facilitators trained and training materials ready to start training school
         teachers' teams duringphase two o f the project

Objective 3: Lay the ground workfor introducingper-capitafinancing.
     0   Per-capita formula adopted and training materials to support its introduction are
         available.
     0   New regulations inplace to support introduction o f per-capita funding.




                                                    8

Objective 4: Improved capacity of the Ministry of Public Education to implement and monitor
investmentprograms.
    0   Standardized student assessment has been conducted on a pilot based to a representative
        sample o f students inproject schools. The fulfillment of this indicator will function as a
        trigger for movingto phase two of the program;
    0   Information on base line indicators i s collected and analyzed during annual project
        review meeting;
     0  Timely implementation progress reports produced bi-annually by main education units
        involved inthe project.

18. The two performance indicators for phase one which would function as "triggers" for
consideration of World Bank support for the second phase o f the program are: (i)      At least 75
percent of project schools have school board fully involved in school needs assessment and in
selection of teaching and learning materials; and (ii)standardized student assessment has been
                                                       a
conducted on a pilot basis that i s a representative sample o f students in project and non-project
schools.

 4. Project components

19. The proposed APL consists o f five closely inter-related components grouped in two main
areas. The first area consists o f component one, two and three which are all oriented toward the
improvement of learning and teaching conditions in general secondary schools located in poor
areas. Component one focuses on improving students learning conditions in pre-school and
general secondary schools through the provision of learningmaterials and equipment. The second
component aims at improving the quality of teaching in those schools by upgrading teaching
skills and competencies o f teachers and by promoting cooperation-based methods in schools. The
third component seeks to improve learning conditions by stimulating and strengthening
community participation inschool decisionmaking.

20.   The second area consists of component four and five. These components are oriented
towards improving the management and monitoring capacity o f the sector. Component four
intends to improve efficiency in allocation and utilization of public financial resources in
education by strengthening the capacity of the sector on budget planning and execution.
Component vie will strengthen both the capacity o f the Ministry of Public Education to
effectively manage and coordinate the implementation o f the project as well as to monitor its
progress and impact.

21.   The implementation o fthe APL will be done intwo phases with an overall duration o f four
years. The first phase will last one year and a half, and will concentrate on setting up conditions
for stimulating community involvement in school decision making processes through the
activation of school boards; on strengthening the capacity o f teacher training institutions to
provide training to an increased number o f teachers during a given academic year; and on
creating conditions for introducing per-capita fundingin general secondary schools. Duringthis
phase, the MPE will make a concerted effort to improve learning conditions inpre-schools and in
grades one to four o f participating school through the provision o f teaching and learning
materials. Finally, the MPE will improve its capacity to implement investment programs and to
monitor and evaluate the impact of interventions with a special focus on assessing progress on
students' learning.

22.   The transition from phase one to phase two will be conditioned to the achievement o f
significant progress in the activation o f School Boards. According to MPE estimates 65% o f

                                                  9

schools have already established School Boards. However, there is not independent information
on how active they are. As part o f the LSMS household survey planned for October o f 2006 the
World Bank will conduct a school survey to establish a baseline data that will be used to assess
School Board involvement on school activities. A repeat survey will be conducted by April or
M a y o f 2007 to assess the impact o f the project on activating School Boards. The project will
also monitor a series of output indicators presented inthis annex together with the description o f
each component. Progress monitoring o f these indicators will set the basis for planning and
negotiations on phase two o f the project. A second indicator that will be used as a trigger for
phase two i s student assessment. The MPE would have to carry out a standardized student
assessment to a sample o f students attending project as well as non-project schools.

23.    The Ministry o f Public Education (MPE) has selected 23 Rayons o f 7 Oblasts as the target
o f this Project. Thus, a total o f 1501 general secondary schools, 673 preparatory groups in 598
pre-schools and 19 stand-alone primary schools will be the direct beneficiaries o f this
Component. Rayons have been selected according to the criteria o f poverty, number o f schools in
remote areas, and their classification - according to previous governmental sources - as
"waterless and deserted areas" o f Uzbelustan. While some o f the schools in the selected rayons
are also direct beneficiaries of the National Education Development Program, or of projects
financed by other donors (notably ADB), this Component aims to reach out to the neediest
schools and to provide learning materials and equipment which will not be provided from those
sources.


Component 1: Provision of Learning Materials and Resources for General Secondary
                  Schools and Pre-Schools. (Total estimated cost US$9.8 million)

24.    The objective o f this component i s to improve the quality of teaching and learning in
selected schools by providing them with modem, low cost and highimpact learning materials and
resources. This i s to be done in full alignment with the priorities and on-going activities of the
School Education Development Program (2004-2009) and incoordination with education projects
supported by other donors also focused on equipping schools with teaching and learning
resources, materials and aids.

25.    This component will finance the following activities: (i)   provision o f learning materials and
resources to selected pre-schools and stand-alone primary schools; (ii)       demand-driven provision
o f learning materials and resources to selected general secondary schools; (iii)   targeted training to
rayon heads, inspectors, officials in charge o f monitoring and evaluation, and heads o f the
Centers o f vocational orientation and psychological counseling as local implementation agencies
and actors for this component.

26.    Duringphase one, the project will finance the provision o f learning materials, equipment
and resources to 673 preparatory groups in 598 pre-schools and to all classes on grades 1-4 in
1501general schools.

27.    Pre-schools will receive all items contained in a set list o f materials and equipment prepared
by the MPE. The MPEand WB teams reachedinitial agreement on most items inthe list. A final
review o f the list will be conducted prior to procurement.

28.    Learning materials for grades 1-4 will be demand driven. School directors, teachers, and
members o f School Boards will participate on the selection o f the materials for each school after
conducting a school needs assessment and prioritization exercise. The prioritization exercise will
be done based on a comparison o f the results o f the school needs assessment with a list o f


                                                   10

teaching materials and decision making matrix that will be provided by the MPE. The MPE and
WB teams reached initial agreement on most items contained inthe list of learning materials. A
final review o f the list will be conducted prior to procurement.

29.   Duringphase two the project will finance the provision of teaching and learning materials
to all remaining grades in the 1501 general schools targeted by the project. Building onthe
experience o f phase one, the project will promote active involvement of School Boards in
school's needs assessment and prioritization.

30.   In order to assist the MPE in getting the project ready for implementation, the WB has
agreed to fund a local consultant to work together with the MPE in the preparation of a needs
assessment methodology and of training materials to facilitate the introduction o f the
methodology. The MPE will conduct a public information campaign to raise awareness and to
promote the establishment and activation o f School Boards.

31.   The project will promote full participation of school directors, teachers and parents in the
selection o f materials and equipment through active dissemination o f information and a set o f
procedures which ensure a demand led approach. As a consequence, the provision of learning
materials and resources to general secondary schools will be carried out through request forms
(School Request Manual: SRM) prepared by schools on the basis o f an evaluation o f their needs,
priorities and capacities. The MPE will be responsible for the definition o f procedures to be used
in order to guide schools in the preparation of their requests and definition of priorities, the
establishment of the evaluation criteria o f school requests, and, when appropriate, all the tasks
relatedto procurement and distribution of materials.

32.   The main implementation agency for this component will be the MPE Department o f
Development and Organization o f Education in General Schools. The Department o f School
Endowment and the Department o f Organization will also be involved in some key implementation
arrangements.


33. The implementation of this component will be assessed through the following set of output
indicators: (i) actual levels o f participation o f the school community, including school boards, in
the selection of teaching and learning materials; and (ii) extent to which schools eventually
                                                               the
receivedwhat they demanded.


Component 2: Strengthening of In-Service Training for Teachers and Principals in General
                  Secondary Schools and Pre-Schools (Total estimated cost US$3.8 million)

34. The longterm objective of this component is to enhance the quality of teaching and learning
in 1501general education secondary schools and 598 pre-schools locatedin23 rayons and seven
oblasts. This will be done by upgrading teaching skills, competencies and knowledge of teachers
fkom these schools on the use of student and knowledge centered active learning strategies,
complementary student assessment methods, cooperation-based work methods and make
effective use of modem teaching aids. The component will also support the training of school
directors to introduce them to the teacher training program that the teachers will be receiving, and
to introduce them to resource management and community mobilization knowledge and
techniques.

35.   Duringphaseone the project will strengthen the capacity inthe RepublicanInstitute for pre-
school teacher training and inthe Republican Institute for teacher training to provide training to a
larger number of teachers in any given year. To achieve this objective, the project will help the

Institutes to mainstream the use o f school based teacher training strategies and to move away
from the current system o f individualistic, supply driven training.       The main activities to be
financed during phase one include technical assistance for the development o f school based
training modules and materials, and o f monitoring and evaluation strategies. The project will also
finance provision o f teaching equipment and materials for the Republican Institutes, Regional
Teacher Training Institutes, Rayon Methodological Centers and School Teachers' Rooms.

36.   Inaddition to building capacity at the Republican Centers, by the end of phase one there
will be a total o f 163 facilitators trained ready to start working with school teachers' teams during
phase two o f the project. These facilitators would not only have acquired new slulls and
competencies on active teaching methodologies and team work but they will also be equipped
with a set o fteaching materialsto facilitate their work.

37.   Duringphase two ineacho fthe participatingschools the projectwill train a team o fthree to
five teachers (depending on school size) that will in turn be responsible for going back to their
schools to training their colleagues and introduce in their schools child centered and active
teaching approaches, student assessment methods consistent with the new teaching, effective use
o f teaching aids and materials, and for creating a culture o f collaboration and continuous learning
withinthe school.

38.   Also, during phase two school directors will participate in a series o f three training event
where they will become familiar with schools child centered and active teaching approaches,
student assessment methods so they can support the work o f the teacher's teams. They will also
receive training to strengthen their skills and competencies on school leadership; school-
community collaboration; change management; resource management, etc. It i s expected that
school directors will play a key role insupportingthe work o f the teachers' team intheir schools.

39.   The project will help introduce new school-based teacher training strategies in the
Republican Institute for Teacher Training, the Republic Institute for Pre-School Teacher training,
and seven Regional Teacher Training Institutes, inaddition to methodologists in23 rayons.

40. In order to achieve these objectives, the project will finance teacher training equipment for
the Republican Institutes, the rayon methodological centers and the school teacher's rooms;
technical assistance for the development and adaptation o f teaching training strategies;
development and production o f training modules and materials, monitoring and evaluation
studies, and training o f facilitators and training o f school teams.

41. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) i s funding a parallel project (Information and
Communication Technology in Basic Education Project) that contemplates the establishment o f
860 Cluster Leader Schools in the whole country. Each cluster will contain on average eleven
schools. Where appropriate, School Cluster Leaders will be used as the places where training for
school teams will be organized and delivered.

42.   Duringphase one, progress inthe implementation o f this component will be monitored and
assessed by keeping track o f the number o f facilitators that have been trained. Another set o f
output indicators that will be tracked i s the number o f training materials that have been prepared
and distributed.

43.   The long term impact o f this component will be evaluated by assessing behavioral changes
on rayon methodologists, school directors and deputies, and teachers. Indicators o f behavioral
changes will include empirical observations to assess if rayon methodologists are worlung with
school teams to support the introduction o f active learning strategies and cooperation-based work


                                                      12

methods; school teacher's teams are working with teachers intheir schools for the introduction of
active learning strategies and cooperation-based work methods; school directors/deputy-directors
are supporting school teacher's team and are promoting the use o f active learning strategies and
cooperation work based methods among all teachers in their schools; and teachers in project
schools are usingdaily active learning strateges and cooperation-based work methods.

Component 3: Support activation of school boards (Total estimated cost US$0.17 million).

44.   The objective of this component is to contribute to the improvement of school environments
and students' learning achievements by strengtheningand stimulating community participation in
the school decision-making process. Duringphase one, the project will support the establishment
and operation o f School Boards as an instrument for the implementation o f the National "Oila-
Mahalla-Maktab"4 Concept. The component activities will build on experience gained during the
implementation o f similar initiatives carried out under different projects working to support
school community mobilization.

45.   During phase one, the project will help increase the number of education specialist at all
levels of the education system with howledge, competence and skills to promote activation of
School Boards and community participation. In each rayon, a team of certified facilitators
consisting of one certified oblast and several certified rayon specialists will be responsible for
training school directors on School Board activation and on how to involve the school community
on school needs assessment and prioritization. These facilitators will also train School Boards on
the preparation o f school grants that will beprovidedunder the project duringphase 2.

46.   Duringphase one the project will finance all training and promotionactivitiesneededto get
parents and other members o f the school community more involved on school activities. Special
attention will be givento their involvement inthe process o f selection of learningmaterials.

47.   Level o f participation o f school boards on school decision making will be assess through a
survey to be conducted after seven to eight months after project effectiveness. The results o f this
survey will be compared to a baseline that will be collected before project start up as part o f the
LSMS household survey supported by the World Bank.

48.   During phase two the project will continue buildingcapacity throughout the school system
on community mobilization and activation of school boards. Inorder to encourage school boards
to further their involvement on school improvement activities phase two o f the project will also
provide school improve grants to school boards on a competitive basis. The activities under this
component during phase two can be divided into two subcomponents: (i)        capacity building; and
(ii)competitive grants for school improvement.

49.   The transition from phase one to phase two will be conditioned to the achievement of
significant progress in the activation of School Boards. It is expected that after eight month of
project implementation at least 75% of schools will have school boards actively participating in
school needs assessment and prioritization.




  "Family-Community-School" Concept

                                                  13

Component4: ImprovementinEducationFinancing, Budgeting,andManagement
                  (TotalestimatedcostUS$0.89 million)

50.    The overall objective o f this component is to improve efficiency o f general secondary
education financing by building capacity in the education sector for budget planning and
formulation, on the one hand, and management and accounting, on the other, in the process o f
expanding per capita financing inthe sector. The different actors involved inthe implementation
o f this component include Ministry o f Public Education, oblast, city, rayon, as well as school-
level education staff. The component consists o f two phases.

51.    The objective o f this first phase i s to lay the groundwork for expansion o f per capita
financing in the education sector by ascertaining the correct formula, designing an
implementation plan, preparing training materials, and puttingall necessary legal and institutional
prerequisites inplace.

52.    The Uzbek authorities attach a high priority to education, as reflected in the high levels o f
public spending on the sector - close to 9 percent o f GDP inrecent years. However, the highlevel
o f education spending in Uzbekistan may reflect substantial inefficiencies inthe use o f resources
inthe sector. The country's current inputs-based education budgeting system is one of the likely
contributors to these inefficiencies. Under this system, there i s little incentive for schools to
improve the efficiency o f resource use or the quality o f services provided.        In this regard,
capitation financing offers the potential for more efficient programming and allocation o f
education resources. Therefore, the Ministries o f Public Education and Finance launched in
January 2005 a two-year pilot in Akkurgan rayon (Tashkent oblast), financed by the USAID
PEAKS project, introducing per capita financing in49 general secondary schools.

53.    Therefore, inthis first phase, the Ministryo f Public Education, inparticular the Department
o f Forecasting, Financial Management, and Accounting, will be provided with technical
assistance to 1) learn from the experience to date o f the Akkurgan pilot in per capita financing in
the education sector; 2) assess the merits o f the different capitation financing formula options
available to Uzbekistan; 3) design a detailed implementation plan for expanding per capita
financing to the oblast level, including detailing the necessary legal and institutional
preconditions for scaling up; 4) design detailed training materials, tailored to the different actors
requiring training; and 5) design a monitoring and evaluation mechanism to assess the results o f
implemented education financing reforms, including updating and revising the capitation formula
ifnecessary.

54.    Takmg into account the oblasts inwhich other project components will be active, the choice
was made to implement per capita financing in education in Bukhara oblast first. Therefore,
during this first preparatory phase, personal computer sets will be procured for Bukhara oblast,
rayon, and city education office economists and accountants (total o f two sets per education
office) as well as accountants inindependent schools.

55.    Output indicators for this phase include the adoption of a per capita formula and the
availability o f training materials tailored to the different actors, as well as the passage o f the
necessary new regulations supporting implementation o f per capita financing in education. The
short-term outcome indicator for this sub-component i s the number o f rayons implementing per
capita financing in the education sector. The more long-run outcome indicator i s the degree o f
improvement inthe efficiency o f general secondary education public expenditures.


56.    The specific objective o f the second phase i s to scale up implementation o f per capita
financing in Bukhara oblast by first buildingcapacity for education budgeting,management, and

                                                   14

accounting among central, oblast, local, and general secondary school-level staff. The detailed
training materials, including tailored content for the different actors, will be one o f the outputs o f
the first phase, as mentioned above. Inaddition, capacity buildinginper capita financing during
this phase will occur intandem with the progress made on expanding the implementation o f per
capita financing inBukhara oblast, beginning with initially three rayons before encompassing the
entire oblast.

57.   Output indicators for this second phase are therefore the numbers o f oblast, city, and rayon
education office directors provided with general training on per capita financing and
management; the numbers o f oblast, city, and rayon education office economists and accountants
provided with specific training on per capita financing, budgeting and introduction to
management; the numbers o f school principals provided with general per capita finance, general
budgeting and management training; and the numbers o f school accountants provided with
specific training on accounting.


58.   The short-term outcome indicators for this phase are the number o f schools and rayons
implementing per capita financing in the education sector; and the production o f timely and
reliable budget reports, on a monthly, quarterly, and annual basis, for the Ministry o f Finance by
the Ministry o f Public Education using the new financing mechanism. Similar to the first phase,
the more long-run outcome indicator i s the degree o f improvement in the efficiency of general
secondary education public expenditures.

59.   The Department o f Forecasting, Financial Management, and Accounting o f the Ministry o f
Public Education has the main responsibility for overall coordination and implementation o f this
second phase. However, given the fact that per capita financing in education remains relatively
new to the Ministries o f Public Education and Finance themselves, the training under this phase
will be contracted out to an appropriate local university, institute, or business school. This local
entity will benefit from the collaboration with the international consultancy under the first phase,
an arrangement that aims to foster improvement in the capacity o f the local entity in the medium
term.

Component 5: Supportfor ProjectManagement andResultsManagement
                 (Totalestimatedcost US$.44 million)

60.   Project Management: The objective o f this component is to enhance the capacity o f line
units o f the MPE to effectively coordinate and implement the Basic Education Project, and in
doing so, strengthen the capacity o f the MPE and other education institutions to manage,
implement, monitor and evaluate the impact of education improvement projects interventions.

61.   The project will operate at multiple levels of Government (Republican, Oblast and Rayon)
and within three national institutions (the MPE, the RepublicanInstitute for Teacher Training and
the Republican Institute for Pre-School Teacher Training), as well as at different Oblast and
Rayon centers.     Overall leadership o f the project will rest with the MPE under the Deputy
Minister o f Education for Economics and Finance.

62.   To ensure satisfactory coordination among components and to improve overall strategic
planning, a Steering Committee will be established within the MPE to provide guidance to the
project. This Committee will be led by the Deputy Minister o f Education for Economics and
Finance and will include the coordinator o f each component in the MPE, as well as one member
from each o f the Republican Institutes for Teacher Training. The monitoring and evaluation sub-



                                                   15

component will be managed by the Department o f Education Standards Improvement and
Implementation o f Advanced Educational Technologies.

63.   Each department inthe Ministry that has responsibility for a project component will receive
a full time local consultant to provide additional support to that unit.

0        For Component 1: Learning Material and Resources, one consultant will be located in the
         office o f Development and Organization o f Education Processes at Secondary Schools
         and will report to its Director.
         For Component 2: Strengthening o f In-Service Training, one consultant will be located in
         the office o f Human Resources and Teaching Staff Upgrading, and will report to its
         Director.
         For Component 3: Support to School Boards, one consultant will be located inthe office
          o f Organization o f Activities o f Education Institutions, and will report to its Director.

0         For Component 4: Education Finance, Budgeting and Management, one consultant will
         be located inthe office o f the Finance and Accounting Department, and will report to its
         Director.

0         For component 5 on monitoring and evaluation, one consultant will be located in the
          office o f Education Standards and Improvement and Implementation o f Advanced
          Educational Technologes, and will report to the Director o f the Department o f Standards
          and Monitoring.

64. Inaddition to the above, general local consultants will support the Ministry infour areas:

0         Procurement: one consultant will be located inthe Office o f School Endowment and will
          report to its Director. This consultant will receive training inWorld Bank procedures and
          guidelines related to procurement, and will build capacity in the department along these
          lines.

0         Financial Management: one consultant will be located in the office o f Finance and
          Accounting and will report to its Director. This consultant will work with the unit on
          tracking project expenditures and accounts, and in particular, fulfilling reporting
          requirement o f the Bank.
          Overall Project Coordination: one consultant will sit in the office o f Organization o f
          Activities o f Education Institutions and report to the director.

0         Monitoringand evaluation assistant to monitor project progress.

65.    It i s important to stress that the consultants listed directly above will not be responsible for
the implementation o f components, rather, they will provide support to the department who will
have direct responsibility. The consultant will, however, be a "point-person" who will coordinate
with other project components, as well as with the Overall Project Coordination department.
To ensure effective implementationo f the Project, and that Project impacts are measured in such
a way as to increase lessons learnedand sector knowledge, it i s critical that all the activities o f the
project are carefully monitored and then evaluated. An effective management information system
(MIS) should be developed which i s able to carry out this task.

66.    The WB and MPE teams have agreed to take advantage o f current MPE capabilities o f
monitoring and evaluation, thus concentrating responsibility inthis field in the republican, oblast
and rayon departments and units for monitoring and evaluation. It is proposed to combine school-
based data collection with a centralized and standardized testing scheme carried out by the MPE


                                                      16

(Department o f Standards and Monitoring) in a representative sample o f the schools participating
inthe project. The testingwill be done usingthe Uzbekistannational standards as defined inthe
relevant legal documents and the corresponding "subject sets". Such testing will provide
comparable hard evidence on student performance and will enable the MPE to determine project
impact in a scientific way, as it allows comparing performance data with similar schools in other
oblasts and rayons not participating in the project. Standardized assessment data will then
complement the already available school-based assessment data, and the MPE capacity in this
regard will be considerably strengthened.

67.   It is envisaged that, in order to have a solid base for monitoring project impact, activities
concerning monitoring and evaluation o f the project will start immediately after project
effectiveness. The first o f such activities will be to compile the base-line data for the project and
to put it inan electronic data-base.

68.   The Department for Standards Improvement and Implementation o f Advanced Educational
Technologies will have responsibility for maintaining the management information system that
monitors both sets o f indicators. The Component 5 consultant unit will work with the Standards
Departmentto ensure that they are regularly informed and updated on project progress.

  5. Lessons learned and reflectedinthe project design
69.   This is the first project in the education sector in Uzbelustan, so to a large extent, lessons
are reflective o f project experience in Central Asia, and to a lesser extent, the rest o f ECA. A
central lesson from that experience is that operating in an especially challenging environment
such as Uzbelustan, with low capacity and limited resources, requires an especially high level o f
government commitment and ownership. Even though the project i s to be implemented in an
environment o f corruption risk, the risk that Bank funds will not be used as intended isjudged as
manageable since these funds will be ring fenced and the project will apply the Bank's project
financial management and procurement arrangements. Although reform progress has been
relatively slow in Uzbekistan, the Government's commitment to the Project has been
demonstrated by its willingness to undertake implementation without a traditional Project
Implementation Unit. It has shown an unusual level o f commitment, undertaking preparation
activities with a high level o f independence.     In addition, Project design has been extensively
discussed with the MOE, and working groups involving a variety o f government officials and
other agencies who have been working continuously inorder to achieve readiness.

70.   Also important is that the project has only limited focus with well defined project objectives
that are consistent with the Government's absorptive capacity. Too often abundant resources,
especially technical assistance, are brought into this type o f environment only to be underutilized
by counterparts unable to use and sustain the assistance. Some o f the previous Bank projects in
Uzbelustan (e.g. Institution BuildingTechnical Assistance Loan) tended to be overly complicated
with a large number o f components/sub-componentsand numerous executing agencies, which
complicated project coordination and supervision. The Basic Education Project will focus
primarily on learning materials and training, with financial and budgetary reforms to ensure
sustainability.


  6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
71. No project. The Government o f Uzbekistan has recently expressed a strong interest in a
World Bank funded education project. Since the Government has prepared a consistent medium
term basic education program and they had shown strong commitment to move forward on a
reformagenda, the Bank opted to participate inthe process to maximize its impact potential.


                                                    17

72. Project Instrument/Sector- Wide Approach (SWAp). Although there i s other donor activity
in the country's education sector - particularly ADB -the donors are still in the process of
building consensus on how to support the Government education strategy, therefore it was not
realistic at this early stage to contemplate a SWAp. In addition, since this will be the first Bank
funded project in education the World Bank team considered that it was too risky to use a SWAP
under this circumstance.

73.   Size of the Credit. The Credit size has varied during different stages o f preparation.
Initially, the Government expressed an interest in a Credit that ranged as high as one hundred
million dollars. For a variety o f reasons (see directly above) it was decided to adopt a narrower
focus, concentrating on learning materials, that will better complement the Government's reform
program, as well as the work o f other donors.


C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements
74. The proposed Basic Education Project and the Program have been designed to build upon
initiatives and projects supported by other donors inUzbekistan's education sector. For example,
the teacher training component will complement similar initiatives from Asian Development
Bank (ADB), Project Excellence Achieved through Knowledge Systems (PEAKS) and UNICEF,
among others; while the strengthening o f School Boards will complement similar initiatives
supported by ADB and PEAKS.

75.   Preliminary discussions have been held with representatives o f the Japanese Government
regarding the possibility of a PHRD implementation grant to support selected activities under the
Project.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements
76. The Project will be implemented directly by the MPE. This approach entails a significant
risk given the lack o f experience o f the MPE and the World Bank o f worlung together on this
type o f project. Inorder to mitigate this risk the project will fund local consultants who will each
sit inthe respective department and supports the management o f each component. It i s anticipated
that there will be skills transfer from the local consultant to the department, such that by the end
o f the Project their services will no longer be required. In addition, local consultants will be
located within the Department o f School Endowment -- MPE's procurement department - to
assist with fiduciary and procurement implementation. Overall responsibility for financial
management within the project will rest with the Director o f Finance and Accounting Department
(FAD), supported by the Chief Accountant. Once the Credit becomes effective, FAD will select
and hire a financial management consultant to support the Department during project
implementation. Working under the supervision o f FAD management s(he) will support the
implementation o f day - to day aspects o f financial management and disbursement, including
managing the special account, maintaining books o f accounts, reporting day-to-day transactions
and preparing accounting reports and financial statements, as well as monitoring financial flows
to the project. The MPE has already hired a short-term financial management consultant, using
budget funds, to help develop a financial management system that meets Bank requirements.
Continuing financial management support during implementation will be financed from the
Credit.

77.   Training will be carried out by the Republican Centre for Teacher Training, using teams o f
rayon education methodologists working together under the guidance and with direct support and


                                                    18

training o f experts from the Regional Institutes and the Republican Centers (general education
and pre-school).

78.    Interms of training on reforming the education financing system, training will be provided
by the relevant staff o f the Ministry o f Finance. See Annex 6 for detailed implementation details
by component.


3. Monitoring and evaluation

79.    The project will benefit from the current MPE capabilities o f monitoring o f learning
outcome, and build on the expertise developed during the MPE-UNICEF Monitoring Learning
Achievements exercise. The coverage o f the MPE-UNICEFMLA i s not currently sufficient for
the Bank to use as a baseline for this project, though the results o f this exercise will provide
valuable insights into the design o f new M&E survey instruments. It i s proposed to combine
school-based data collection with a centralized and standardized (pilot) testing scheme that will
be carried out by the MPE (Department o f Standards and Monitoring) in schools participating in
the project as well as outside the project in order to get comparative data. Such testing will
provide comparable hard evidence on student performance and will enable the MPEto determine
project impact in a scientific way, as it allows to comparing performance data with similar
schools in other oblasts and rayons not participating inthe project. Standardized assessment data
will then complement the already available classroom-based assessment data, and the MPE
capacity inthis regard will be considerably strengthened.

80. In addition, as suggested above, the network o f monitoring and evaluation specialists at
both the Oblast and Rayon levels will receive training and develop uniform data collection
techniques to deal with each o f the project components. For instance, monitoring actual levels of
use o f the new materials delivered to schools i s crucial to determine their degree o f curriculum
integration, thus making it possible to talk about impact on student learning and student
achievement. This information will be complemented with beneJiciary surveys at both the local
and regional levels that will provide precious information on project outputs and outcomes. One
obvious example inthis regard has to do with teachers' satisfaction and (perceived) improvedjob
conditions after receiving the new materials and equipment, as well as training.

81. Arrangements for M&E:The Department o f Standards and Monitoring at the MPEwill be
in charge of coordinating the monitoring and evaluation plan for the Project. The network o f
M&Especialists at Oblast and Rayon public educationdepartments will be fully involved inthe
process, from data collection to data analysis and reporting. Duringthe first six months o f project
effectiveness learning tests will be administered to a sample o f students; and surveys will be
administered     to   their   parents;  teachers;   school  board   members.     A brief school
characteristics/inventory survey will also be carried out.           These surveys will cover a
representative sample o f students and schools that are included in the project; as well as a sample
o f students and schools that are not included inthe project (for comparison purposes). Inorder to
allow comparisons over time, the survey instrument that aims to capture the functioning of school
boards should cover (and expand on) the existing and planned surveys that are relevant: namely
the school-boards-survey that was implemented in 2006 by the MPE and a supplementary survey
to take place inFall 2006 (to be commissionedby the World Bank).

82.    T o further strengthen current M&E capabilities, a local consulting firm and international
consultants will be hired to support, inform and implement the new (pilot) standardized testing
scheme and other elements o f the M&E plan. International consultants will contribute to the
design o f student learning tests; student, parent, school-board and school characteristics surveys.
Training sessions on monitoring and evaluation instruments and procedures will need to be

                                                   19

carried out with the participation o f rayon heads and, when applicable, monitoring specialists and
heads o f vocational orientation centers. It will also be highly recommendable that school
principals o f the participating schools attend those trainings.     The local consultant firm will
participate in the design o f survey instruments, and be responsible for the fielding o f
tests/surveys, data entry, and provision o f raw data files to the MPE and to the World Bank on a
timely basis.

83.   Follow-up data collection should be carried out regularly, with another major testing and
survey fielding activity to take place during the last year o f the project. The follow-up survey(s)
will implement identical/comparable tests and questionnaires to enable the evaluation o f the
effectiveness o f project interventions. A series o f short-term visits by international consultants
are envisaged after the baseline data collection as well, to support the MPE, Oblast and Rayon
officials involved inmonitoring and evaluation; and to contribute to the final evaluation report for
the Component.

4. Sustainability
84. The project design itself should ensure sustainability. On the one hand, the project i s a
response to the Government's request to complement the Government's financing plan o f the
M P E School Education Development Plan. On the other hand, all project activities will be
implemented through existing structures o f the education sector and thus, they will become an
integral part of their normal plan o f activities and program.

85.   In terms of maintenance costs and implications for the recurrent budget o f the education
sector, these are not likely to be substantial. The bulk o f Project funds are designated to the
provision o f learning materials and other resources, which are not estimated to result in sizeable
maintenance expenditures.       The Project component on strengthening in-service training for
teachers and principals, in turn, i s not introducing in-service training per se into the education
sector, but rather modifying the existing approach and methodology. The Project component
supporting activation o f the school boards does introduce training, and technical assistance into
the system that are not present to date. However, these activities do not extend beyond the
lifetime o f the Project since they are in support o f the establishment o f the school boards and not
their day-to-day running. Finally, the Project component on capacity-building in education
finance, budget management, and accountingi s respondingto an immediate need for training on a
new system o f education finance. This need will be either fully addressed within the lifetime o f
the Project, or any remaining capacity-building can be integrated into existing training provided
by the Ministryo fFinanceto staff o fthe Ministryo fPublic Education.




                                                    20

 5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects:

                   Risks                                     Risk Mitigation Measures                 Risk Ratingwith
                                                                                                        Mitigation
To ProjectDevelopmentObjective
The Government loses focus andinterest      The Government has announcedits commitment andhas               N
on fully implementingthe School             taken political action (publicity campaign, Presidential
EducationDevelopmentProgram                 decree)demonstratingits commitmentto improve
                                            teaching and learning in generaleducation.The Bank
                                            during its supervisionmissions continueto maintainclose
                                            dialoguewith the MPE regardingthe benefitsof an
                                            efficient allocationand managementof public education
                                            funding.
Unforeseenpolitical currents, such as those To the extentwhich is possible, planning, strategiesand         M
which occurredtwo years ago, couldresult    objectiveswill be tied to, and incorporatedinto, broader
instresses which couldcompromise            institutionsthroughstakeholder consultationsuchthat
reform elements of the project.             theywill not be dependentuponunforeseenpolitical

To Componentresults
Learningmaterialsandresourcesprovided        Teachers, parents and School Boardswill actively               M
to schools are not used in an effective     participatein decidingwhat type of learningmaterialsare
manner.                                     selectedfor schools. Materials will be incorporatedinto
                                            new learningmethodsprovidedin the training funded by
                                            the nroiect
Teachers continueusingtraditional           A groupof teachersfrom the same schoolwill participate          M
teachingstrategies anddo not work           together inthe training andthey will become agents of
collaborativelyinschools.No change on       change intheir schools. Trainedteacherswill receive
teacher behavior.                           follow-up support from the district methodologistwho
                                            will also beprovidedwith training.
School Boardsare not actively               Whenpresentingtheir teaching materialsneeds                     S
participatingonrelevantschool decisions.    assessmentschoolswill be askedto demonstratethat
                                            School Boardhave participatedactively inthe processand
                                            have endorsedthe assessmentandthe request. Training
                                            will be providedon carryingout aneeds assessment and
                                            activeaarticioationwill be stressed.
Failureof passageofnecessaryregulation      Fromthe outset all relevantactors will be involved inthe        M
onrevisededucationfinance mechanisms        formulation and implementationof activities,inparticular
                                            the MinistryofFinanceandMinistry ofEconomy.
                                            Workshops, seminarsandconferences will beheld to
                                            inform key stakeholderson new mechanisms.
Implementationof per-capitafunding is       Ensurethat all necessarylegaland institutional pre-             S
too onerous to the capacityof the system    conditionsare inplace and that training has beenreceived
                                            by all relevantstakeholders. Supplementtraining with
                                            constant information disseminationactivities.
Resistanceto the introductionofnew          The introductionofnew fundingmechanismswill be
funding mechanismsby teachersand            accompaniedby extensive stakeholder consultationand
educationadministrators.                    informationdissemination. Regionalworkshom will be
                                            conductedfor key representativesof schools.
Low implementationcapacityofthe MPE         Localconsultant specialistswill be hired andplaced
and lack of experience working with the     within each component departmentto suppori
World Bank.                                 implementationofthe project. These specialists will be
                                            responsible for the development of TORS,andproviding
                                            technical support to the department as needed. They will
                                            also coordinatewith the ProjectCoordinator (locatedin
                                            the Departmentof Endowment)who will oversee overall
                                            implementationof the Project. Inaddition, WB must
                                            assign additionalresourcesto provide close supervision
                                            andtechnicalassistance and support to the MPE. This
                                            mayincludemore frequent, but shorter visits, andtraining
                                            workshops conductedby WB procurementand financial
                                            managementstaff.



                                                          21

Competent MPE staff is not assigned to       The Bank will work closely with the MPE to ensure that           M
coordinate the implementation o f project    staff currently assigned to work on the project are given
activities or are overwhelmed by non-        clear roles and responsibilities and have access to
Droiect tasks.                               technical assistance when needed.
Financial Management Risks

Misuse o f Bank funds. There i s a risk o f  Even though the project is being implementedin an
misuse o f Bank funds due to perceived       environment o f corruption risks, the risk that Bank funds        S
levels o f considerable corruption in        will not be used as intended isjudged as manageable
Uzbekistan.                                  given a number o f risk mitigation measures outlined
                                             below. Incommon with all donor projects these financial
                                             management arrangements can not give an absolute
                                             assurance that Bank funds will be used for the purposes
                                             intended.

Implementingentity. Implementation           A set o f capacity buildingmeasures have been developed          H
capacity is weak.                            to enhance financial management and procurement
                                             capacity o f M P E to ensure adequate capacity i s built in
                                             the early part o f project implementation. The project will
                                             follow Bank procurement and financial management
                                             arrangements.

Funds Flow. There is the risk that funds     Funds flow arrangements will follow transactions based           M
will be delayed.                             on agreed procedures, including a Designated Account
                                             managed by MPE, and other procedures to ensure timely
                                             disbursement o f funds, particularly to local level
                                             institutions, as described inthe POM.

Staffing. Accounting staff may not cope      A consultant has been hiredby MPEto managethe                     S
with the demanding tasks expected, nor       development o f the accounting system and the preparation
have the motivation to perform.              o f the financial management aspects o f the Operating
                                             Manual. A consultant will be appointed to support the
                                             work o f the Finance and Accounting Department during
                                             implementation.

Accounting Policies and Procedures may       Project Operating Manual (POM) has been developed by              S
not be followed                              a consultant and reviewed by the Bank documenting
                                             accounting policies and procedures, reporting and audit
                                             arrangements.
External Audit. Weak external audit
capacity may cause audit delays and/or       Project financial statements will be audited annually b y a      M
inadequate external audit resulting into     private sector auditor acceptable to the Bank. Draft terms
unsatisfactory audit reports. There is the   o f reference for the project audit have beenprepared and
risk o f inadequate third party assurance    included inthe minutes o fnegotiations.
that project funds are usedas intended

Reporting and Monitoring. Risk o f           Computerized accounting system which is able to prepare
underreporting due to inadequate             reliable financial reports has beendeveloped. Some
accounting system. MPE does not have         additional training will be required for MPE's finance
experience o f preparing financial           staff during implementation.
monitoring reports.

Information systems. Information system      Introductiono f computerized project accounting and
i s not well developed, and accounting is    information system, with adequate controls, will ensure
largely manual, with the risk o f inadequate reliability o f data and facilitate timely reporting. Training
controls inthe accounting system, and        to be provided and staffprovidedwith computers to
delayed submission o f reports.              ensure effective use. Format o f computerized reports have
                                             been discussed and agreed with the Recipient.

Risk Rating - H(HighRisk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1e or Low Risk)




                                                             22

86. Additional risk mitigation measures will include the following: (a) the project has
developed and documented in the POM, effective internal control framework. For the second
phase, the project will establish appropriate internal control over the management o f school
grants; (b) the size o f procurement packages and the frequency o f the Bank's prior review have
been determined in a way that allows significant control while attempting to avoid unnecessary
reviews which could cause delays; (c) there will be an operational reviews towards the end o f the
1'` Phase (within 12-19 months), and every two years during the 2"d Phase, by independent
auditors on terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank; (d) enhanced disclosure and transparency
o f project-related information, including through a project website and significant involvement o f
stakeholders in project implementation; and (e) appropriate complaints handling mechanism. All
complaints from bidders, observers, or communities will be tracked and promptly forwarded to
the Government for consideration and follow-up action.

  6. BoardConditions:

         NIA

  7. EffectivenessCondition:

87.   MinistryofPublic Educationadopts RevisedProject OperationsManual satisfactory to the
Association.

  8. DisbursementCondition:

         NIA

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
  1. Economic and financial analyses

Economic Analysis: Rationalefor Public Intervention

88.   The economics literature recognizes two grounds for the use o f public resources: market
failure and equity. In the education sector, the main causes o f market failures are externalities,
i.e. the notion that reliance on individuals to pay the full cost o f education may result in the
provision and demand o f education being below socially optimal levels. Inthe present context,
where the focus i s on basic education that i s overwhelmingly public provided and with near
universal coverage, market failure does not constitute important ground for public intervention.
Therefore, the primary rationale for using Project funds to increase public funding o f basic
education in Uzbelustan rests on equity grounds. The Ministry o f Public Education (MPE) has
applied three targeting criteria in determining which rayons are to benefit from Project
interventions: 1) the share o f rural and remote schools in the rayon; 2) relatively poorer rayons
within an oblast; and 3) those rayons that are considered "waterless and deserted areas" under
Resolution N2215 o f the Cabinet o f Ministers dated August 9, 1991. The specific attributes o f the
basic education sub-sector in Uzbekistan are such that the inequities do not lie predominantly in
enrolment or attendance rates (which are near universal). Instead, they manifest themselves inthe
school infkastructure as well as availability o f learning and teaching inputs, and they are apparent
between urban and rural and remote areas. Addressing these types o f inequities i s a worthy use o f
public funds since school resources have an impact on learning outcomes for basic education
students.



                                                    23

89.   Interms of available evidence in this regard, the 2000 Program for International Student
Assessment (PISA) assessed the learning achievement o f 15-year-olds in the three educational
domains o f reading, mathematics, and science in OECD countries (including the Czech Republic,
Hungary, and Poland in Eastern Europe) as well as several non-OECD countries (including
Albania, Bulgaria, Latvia, FYRMacedonia, and the RussianFederationin Eastern Europe and the
Former Soviet Union). The PISA findings were that, on average in OECD countries, school
resources,   school   context   (including location),     and student characteristics        (including
socioeconomic background, which is relevant here given higher poverty rates in rural areas)
together explain 69 percent o f the differences between schools instudent performance.

90.    Table 9.2 in Annex 9 provides data collected from school officials in different communities
in Uzbekistan on aspects such as whether schools have sufficient numbers o f teachers, rooms,
desks, boards, manuals, and heating equipment, and whether those physical materials available
are in good condition. It i s first important to note that overall shares o f schools with sufficient
numbers o f inputs, or inputs in good condition, leave much to be desired. Thus, for both urban
and rural communities, only 83 percent o f schools have sufficient numbers o f teachers, and 79
percent sufficient numbers o f boards. The next range i s for rooms and desks, where 72 and 66
percent respectively o f schools overall have sufficient numbers. Finally, the greatest need lies in
manuals and heating equipment, where only 57 and 56 percent respectively o f schools overall
have sufficient numbers. In terms o f overall quality o f schools, only 40 percent o f schools are
deemed in good or excellent condition, while 18 percent have experienced deterioration in their
condition over the last five years.

91.    Beyond this sobering big picture, schools in urban communities fare better in almost every
aspect, followed by schools in rural communities that are close to the rayon and oblast center.
Clear disparities are apparent between urban schools and rural remote schools, whether these are
remote from the oblast or rayon center or both. Indeed, it i s o f interest to note that distance from
the oblast center in many instances has more o f an impact on school attributes than distance from
the rayon center. Across the board, however, schools inrural communities that are remote from
both the rayon and oblast center fare worst, inmany instances exhibiting as little as half the share
that i s observed in urban schools, e.g. only 38 percent o f schools in these communities have
sufficient numbers o f rooms or desks, as compared to roughly 80 percent o f urban schools.

Financial Analysis: Public Expenditures under the 2004-2009 School Education Development
Program
92.    Table 9.4, Annex 9, shows that annual expenditures for SEDP increase over the period
2005-2009, albeit at a declining rate, since they double between 2005 and 2006 but grow at a rate
o f roughly 40,20, and 10 percent annually thereafter. The total expenditure for SEDP over 2005-
2009 amounts to U S 1 . 2 billion (assuming a constant exchange rate over the period). Table 9.5,
Annex 9, provides the percentage breakdown o f projected annual expenditures for the SEDP,
demonstrating that for all years, roughly seven-tenths o f expenditures are for construction and
rehabilitation works, with the remaining three-tenths for furniture and equipment. The single
largest category o f expenditure i s capital reconstruction, which also increases its share over the
years. By contrast, the share o f new constructionexpenditures declines progressively, while other
categories remain roughly constant. Expenditures on learning and lab equipment capture the
largest share o f expenditures for furniture and equipment.          Projections for overall public
expenditures on education, shown in Table 9.6, Annex 9, demonstrate the importance o f the
SEDP for the education sector in Uzbekistan. Thus, SEDP expenditures constitute 10 percent o f
total education expenditures in the country in 2005, rising progressively to 24 percent of total
expenditures by 2009. Since projections are only available until 2009, the final year o f SEDP,
this leaves open the question o f whether the Government o f Uzbekistan expects public education
expenditures to suddenly drop by 20 percent or more in2010.

                                                  24

93.    While a drop o f 20 percent in public education expenditures seems rather sharp, it is
nonetheless true that public education expenditures in Uzbelustan have been and are projected to
remain remarkably high when considered either as a share o f total public expenditures or GDP.
As Table 9.7, Annex 9, shows, 2005 public education expenditures constitute fully 27.7 percent
o f total public expenditures in the country, and 8.9 percent o f GDP, and are projected to rise by
2009 to 31.7 and 10.5 percent, respectively. By contrast, the 2001 OECD average shares o f public
education expenditures in total public expenditures was 12.7 percent, and in GDP, 5.3 percent
(OECD 2004). Inother words, the shares inUzbekistanare on the order o f twice the magnitude
o f the OECD average shares. Even compared to a country like the Russian Federation (with a
2001 share o f education intotal expenditures o f 11.5 percent and 3.0 percent in GDP) the shares
in Uzbekistan remain remarkably high. Seen in this light, a drop o f 20 percent in public
education expenditures in 2010 may very well be warranted, but assuming that it is done
deliberately as a result o f policymalung and allowing for reallocation within the education sub-
sectors, for example.
  2. Technical
NIA

  3. Fiduciary

94. A Financial Management Assessment of MPE was carried out in October 2005 and
revisited in August 2006 to determine if the existing financial management arrangements are
acceptable to the Bank. These arrangements include systems o f budgeting, accounting, financial
reporting, auditing, and internal controls.          Implementation o f the financial management
arrangements for the project i s the responsibility o f the Finance and Accounting Department o f
MPE (FAD). While their systems are adequate for budgeting and accounting under Uzbek law
FAD staff are not familiar with the Bank's fiduciary requirements regarding financial
management, disbursement and audit. The initial assessment therefore concluded that the
arrangements were not adequate, and MPE worked on a remedial action plan to develop adequate
financial management systems that were subsequently reviewed by the Bank in December 2005
and August 2006 when it was established that all elements o f the action plan were completed to
the satisfaction o f the Bank. To support them through the development o f the project financial
management arrangements a local consultant has worked with MPE to develop the financial
management procedures that have been documented inthe Project Operation Manual. Inaddition,
FADhas introduced a computerizedaccountingsystem, usingthe 1-C accountingsoftware which
i s already being used for a number o f World Bank-financed projects in Central Asia. Following
successful implementation o f the Financial ManagementAction Plan, developed during appraisal,
the financial management arrangements now meet requirements o f the World Bank. All o f the
above said, it i s still critical to note that from a financial management perspective, the proposed
project i s considered highrisk. However, by incorporating mitigating measures into the Project
the residualrisk i s reducedto substantial. Strict supervision will be needed to ensure adherence to
Bank standards.

95.    Annual audits for the project accounts will be carried out inaccordance with the Guidelines
Financial Management Practices in World Bank--nanced Investment Operations (November
2005). The guidelines require a single audit opinion on the project financial statements as a
whole, which will include the Special Account Statement and the Statement o f Expendituresused
as the basis o f withdrawing funds from the Credit Account

96.    On the procurement side, it has been concluded that MPE does not have the necessary
capacity to conduct procurement under the project. It was agreed with MPE that it will add to its
existing procurement team a procurement coordinator for the project, a local consultant and an


                                                     25

  international consultant. The international consultant will helpMPE buildits procurementteam's
  capacity to a level where eventually it will itself conduct all procurement under the project.
  Meanwhile, the procurement coordinator and the local consultant will be responsible for these
  activities.

    4. Social

  97. The project will focus particular attention on disadvantaged schools for investment in
  provision of teaching materials, training of teachers on student centered approaches, activation of
  school boards and improvement o f efficiency in the allocation and use o f resources. The latest
  Living Standards Assessment (LSA) showed that rural areas suffer from lower access to quality
  public services. By targeting project interventions to poor rayons located in areas that are
  considered waterless or with water accessibility problems the project will be addressing one o f
  the sources o f low quality services in disadvantage areas. Field visits conducted during appraisal
  gave strong indications that all the proposed interventions have strong support not only at the
  level o f regional and local education authorities but, most importantly, among school directors,
  teachers, students and parent who are the direct beneficiariesof the project.

  98.    The activation and strengthening of school boards is a concrete and important effort to give
  voice and to empower stakeholders. The introduction of per-capita funding should lead to
  increased school autonomy. Strong community participation through school boards should
  contribute to a more efficient and effective use o fresources that very soon will be coming directly
  to schools.

    5. Environment

  99. The Project i s Category C. An environmental action plan will not be required.

  6.    Safeguard policies

  NIA

Safeguard PoliciesTriggered by the Project                                             Yes                    No
Environmental Assessment (OPBPIGP 4.01)                                                 [I                   [x 1
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                           [I                    [x 1
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                               [I                    [XI
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                 [I
                                                                                                             [x 1
                                                                                                              [x 1
InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                    [I
IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                                    [I                    [XI
Forests(OP/BP 4.36)                                                                     [I                   [x 1
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                             [I                    [XI
Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60).                                              [I                    [XI
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                     [I                   [x 1




  * By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties'
  claims on the disputed areas

                                                           26

7.    Policy Exceptions and Readiness

100. There are no policy exceptions inthe proposed credit.

101. Disclosurerequirements were addressedand agreedon duringNegotiations.

102. Results assessment arrangements have been completed: monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
institutional obligations are defined; the project includes resources to strengthen M&E capacity;
indicators have been specified.




                                                    27

                       Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
                               UZBEKISTAN: BASICEDUCATION


Uzbekistani s the fifthlargest country by territory inthe former Soviet Union, and with 26 million
inhabitants, the third largest by population. It gained independence in 1991 and in2005 the Atlas
Gross National Income (GNI) per capita was estimated at US$520. The authorities have chosen a
gradual reform path, aimed at social stability, which i s based on strong preferences for national
independence, government control, and self-sufficiency. This places Uzbekistan as one o f the
transition economies' that does not have a highpace o f reform. The country has a predominantly
and growing rural population - 63 percent o f the total population lives in rural areas - and most
o f the poor are rural dwellers.

In2000-2003, the Governmentundertookmeasures to improve domestic andexternal imbalances
such as restricting external borrowing, limiting the Central Bank financing budget, and
introducing currency convertibility. As a result o f these efforts and coupled with favorable world
prices for main Uzbek exports, real growth increased from 2,9 percent duringthe period of 1996-
2003 to 7 percent in 2004. Despite these macroeconomic adjustments however the recent upturn
ingrowth has not beenreflectedinsignificant improvements instandards. The country's poverty
rate remained at 26-27 percent during the period o f 2000-2004 with large territorial and urban-
rural variations. Inequality estimates were relatively highas measured by Gini o f 0.39 in2003.

Agriculture accounts for around 30 percent o f total GDP with cotton as one of the two main
export commodities (gold i s the other). Industry, despite having benefited from significant state
directed investment, remains relatively small as a share o f GDP, reflecting sometimes poor public
investment choices and insufficient private investment. Uzbekistan's business climate remains
difficult, as reflected in low inflows of foreign direct investment, and the results o f recent
business climate surveys.6

Uzbekistan's economic strategy includes a strong focus on the maintenance o f basic public
services. Health and education spending account for around 40 percent o f the total budget, and at
9 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), education spending i s considerably above the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) average.                      The current
situation is, however, a late response to the relative neglect experienced by the education sector
during the early 1990's. Real expenditures for education fell early in the transition, and only
recoveredto pre-transition levels duringthe past four years. Nonetheless, questions remain about
the efficiency and labor market relevance o fthe current highpublic spending on education.

Inparticular, until recently, education expenditure concentrated on new programs to upgrade
secondary vocational education, while acute funding shortages remained in general education
(grades 1-11). The centerpiece o f the Government's education reform was the National Program


5The EuropeanBank for Reconstructionand Development (EBRD)transition indicators show very little
movement inreform essentially since 1999,the World Bank's Country Policy and InstitutionalAssessment
(CPIA) ratings recorded some marginal improvements in2004 largely due to macroeconomic stabilization
and initial steps to improve public finance management, but saw a mild decline in2005. Other sources o f
informationinclude the Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS), the IFC's
annual SME survey, the World Bank's Governance Indicators, and the Bertelsmann Foundation
Transformation Index.
6 For instance Doing Business around the World, 2004 (World Bank); IFCPEP'SAnnual SME Survey for
Uzbekistan, 2004. Onpublic investmentefficiency see also the Public ExpenditureReview (World Bank,
2005).

                                                    28

for Personnel Training (NPPT), launched in 1997. This program fundamentally restructured
secondary and higher education with the intention o f providing the new skills required in the
global economy.'      At the same time, it aimed to raise the slull levels o f future labor-market
entrants by extendingthe duration o f compulsory education fromnine years to twelve years.
Under the NPPT, a new program o f three-year academic lycea i s replacing the current two-year
program for secondary general education. The new academic lycea are attached to universities
and staffed by university faculty. Inparallel with this, the country-wide network o fprofessional
technical schools (PTUs) and vocational secondary teknikums i s being transformed into a new
network o f three-year professional colleges at the secondary level, with close links to enterprises
and flexible curricula which are intended to respond to local employment needs, while also
enabling graduates to progress to higher education. When the program i s complete, 90 percent o f
secondary enrollments are expected to be in these new professional colleges. A total o f 300
academic lycea and 1,700 professional colleges are envisioned for the program, with total
enrollments o f 1.5 million students. At the same time, higher education programs are being
regrouped under an Anglo-Saxon model o f bachelor and masters degree programs, with an
expansion o f programs in computer sciences, business administration and economics, other social
sciences, and Englishlanguage. When the NPPT program i s fully inplace, it i s expected that that
virtually all graduates o f the academic lycea will go on to university.            Graduates o f the
professional colleges will also be eligible to go on to university.         The target date for full
implementation o f the program has been delayed from September 2004 to September, 2009.
Currently, the program i s slightly under 50 percent completed. About 230,000 o f the 500,000
students completing grade nine each year enter academic lycea or professional colleges. Most,
but not all o f the rest continue their studies inas-yet unconvertedtwo-year professionaltechnical
schools.

A new School Education Development Program,adopted by Presidential decree inMay 2004,
focuses on general education. It comprises a major program o f school rehabilitation and
construction, provision o f educational materials and equipment (including IT and internet access),
and training o f teachers and school principals. Accompanying the major investments under the
program are significant salary increases for teachers and school principals, some o f which are
performance-based. Salary increases adopted since the start o f the program reportedly average
over 50 percent. These very significant increases reverse the long-term trend o f declining real
salaries in the sector. They are also expected to help restore prestige in the teaching profession
and to attract qualified graduates to become teachers. The investment costs o f the program are
estimated at $1.2 billion over the projected 2004-2009 implementationperiod. The program i s to
be financed by a combination o f donor financing and budget financing, the central feature o f
which i s a new earmarked sales tax o f 1percent. This new tax i s expected to generate additional
revenues o f from 150 to 170 billion soums per year. Donor financing o f about US$82 million has
also beenpledgedinsupport o f the program, and more i s being sought.

The current initiatives are however a late response to the relative neglect experienced by the
education sector during the early 1990s. Real expenditures for education fell early in the
transition, and only recovered to pre-transition levels during the past four years. Real teachers'
salaries were progressively eroded. Starting school teachers currently earn less than two-thirds o f
the average monthly wage in the economy. Expenditures for other vital educational activities -
including in-service teacher training, educational materials, and other inputs to maintain and
update teaching and learning materials -- have been reduced to alarmingly l o w levels. Salary
expenditures rose as a share o f recurrent expenditures - currently accounting for more than 77
percent o f recurrent expenditures in general education. As a result, the quality o f education and

'Shavkat  Kurbanov and Edem Seitkhalilov, National Program for Personnel Training: the Basis for the
Achievement of Strategic Goals, UNESCO, September, 2000.

                                                   29

the condition o f schools has deteriorated in all communities except the few that were able to
supplement budget financing for schools through local sources.

The main factors that hinder improvement o f learningheaching quality in general secondary
schools are lack o f teachers' professional competence to promote active engagement by students
on their own learning, insufficient and outdated equipment inclassrooms and special rooms, poor
provision with modern teaching aids, and ineffective use of available teaching aids and
information technologies (see section D.l and Annex 9 for detailed information). Few schools
have been able to create a stimulating atmosphere to encourage students to be masters o f their
learning and teachers to apply new teaching/learning methods, and to co-operate and to share best
practice. And those schools are not in the rural areas where most o f the schools are located and
the majority o f the population resides.

Most teachers still employ traditional methods o f work, devoting attention mostly to narrow
subject knowledge, requiring from students to memorize and repeat notions, concepts and
definitions. Critical thinking, problem solving, communication,           cooperation and similar
competencies do not receive sufficient attention.

In recent years a number o f positive changes have been tahng place in the area o f teachers'
professional development through the work o f non-governmental organizations and the support o f
donors and international lending institutions. But these changes have not permeated through the
system due in part to lack o f local capacity, but also due to approaches to staff development that
rely on providing training to teachers working individually with little or nor contact with other
teachers in their own schools. Many MPE sanctioned teachers' skills improvement programs are
focused on novelties in content rather than methods. Teachers are invited to seminars on an
individual basis, and incentives to schools for training teachers' teams do not exist. After
attending professional development events teachers go back to their schools to work on an
individual basis, concentrating on the issues related to their specific subjects. This strategy does
not encourage improvement o f the entire school learning environment. This situation i s made
worse by the use o f outdated student evaluation systems that mostly focus on assessing content
knowledge.

There are significant regional disparities inthe fundingo f general secondary education, as shown
in Table 1.1. The overwhelming share o f current expenditures (above 90 percent) are wage
expenditures, and total per student expenditures at the oblast level vary from a low o f nine tenths
to 1.3 times the national average, ranging from a high for Navoi oblast o f 134 percent o f the
average to a low in Namangan oblast o f 88 percent o f the average.            Therefore, a general
secondary student in Navoi oblast i s benefiting, on average, from roughly a third more resources
than the average general secondary student in the country, while a student inNamangan oblast i s
getting less than nine-tenths o fthe average student's resources.




                                                   30

Table 1.1: Per student generalsecondary public educationexpenditures, by oblast (2005)
 rankedfromlowest to highestper student expenditure)
 Region                    Per student current exp. (`000s soums)    Total per student exp.
                         Wage exp.      Non-wage exp.         Total   as percent of avg.

 Namangan                         69                    6         75                     88
 Andijan                          72                    7         79                     93
 Fergana                          73                    6         79                     93
 Kashkadarya                      76                    5         81                     95
 Samarkand                        77                    4         81                     95
 Bukhara                          76                    6         82                     96
 Khorezm                          78                    6         84                     99
 Tashkent city                    76                   11         87                    102
 Surkhandarya                     83                    5         88                    104
 Tashkent oblast                  80                    8         88                    104
 Djizzak                          86                    6         92                    108
 R. Karakalpakstan                94                    8        102                    120
 Sirdarya                         97                    6        103                    121
 Navoi                           106                    8        114                    134
        Overall                   74                              85
                                  I ,                   h
                                                        .,



Beyondvariation by oblast, there are clear disparities inhuman and material resource endowment
between urban and rural schools. Table 1.2 provides data collected from school officials on
aspects such as whether schools have sufficient numbers o f teachers, rooms, desks, boards,
manuals, and heating equipment, and whether those physical materials are in good condition.
First, it is important to note that the overall number of schools with sufficient numbers of inputs,
or inputs in good condition, i s quite modest. For both urban and rural communities, only 83
percent of schools have sufficient numbers of teachers, and 79 percent sufficient numbers of
boards. Only 72 percent has sufficient number for rooms and 66 percent sufficient number of
desks. Finally, there i s a great need for teaching manuals and heating equipment, where only 57
and 56 percent respectively o f schools where found to have sufficient numbers. In terms o f
overall quality of schools, only 40 percent of schools are deemed in good or excellent condition,
while 18 percent have experienced deterioration intheir condition over the last five years.

Beyond this sobering overall picture, schools in urban communities fare better in almost every
aspect, followed by schools in rural communities that are close to the rayon and oblast center.
Clear disparities are apparent between urban schools and rural remote schools. Schools in rural
communities that are remote from both the rayon and oblast center fare worst, inmany instances
exhibiting as little as half the share that i s observed in urban schools, e.g., only 38 percent o f
schools inthese communities have sufficient numbers o f rooms or desks, as compared to roughly
80 percent inurban schools. The smallest discrepancy between urban and remote rural schools i s
observed in the availability o f sufficient numbers o f teachers. Here, however, it i s likely that
rural teachers tend to have lower qualifications and less experience than urban teachers.




                                                        31

 'able 1.2: Schools' attrib tes, by geographic location of community, 2004
                                                             Geographic location of community
                                    Both        Urban                                      Ru    la
                                   urban                        Close to                                        Remote
 (percentage share o f              and                       rayon and           Remote            Remote    from rayon
 schools, unless otherwise          rural                        oblast         from oblast       from rayon  and oblast
 specified)                                                     center            center            center      center

 Sufficient number o f
 teachers                              83.2          84.4             84.8               79.1            73.8        66.7

 Sufficient number o f
 rooms                                 72.1          84.4             69.7               44.2            54.8        37.5
 Rooms ingood condition                66.8          79.2             54.5               46.5            50.0        33.3

 Sufficient number o f desks            66.3         77.1             60.6               46.5            50.0        37.5
 Desks ingood condition                 61.1         67.7             60.6               48.8            42.9        33.3

 Sufficient number o f
 boards                                 78.9         83.3             87.9               62.8            66.7        58.3
 Boards ingood condition                75.8         81.3             84.8               55.8            61.9        50.0

 Sufficient number o f
 manuals                                57.4         64.6             54.5               37.2            52.4        37.5
 Manuals ingood condition               68.4         76.0             66.7               51.2            61.9        54.2

 Sufficient number of
 heating equipment                      55.8         70.8             45.5               32.6            42.9        37.5
 Heating equipment ingood
 condition                              56.8         74.0             42.4               32.6            42.9        37.5

 Schools' quality excellent
 or good                               40.4          47.9             29.0               27.9            35.7        25.0
 Schools' condition
 deteriorated inlast 5 years
 C                                      17.6         15.6               6.5              34.9            28.6        45.8

 For rural locations, datawere availableonthe distanceto the rayonandoblast center.
The mediandistanceto the rayoncenterwas 12 kmandto the oblast center 37 km.
A communitywas consideredremote from either the rayon or oblast center ifthe distance to it exceeded the respective
mediandistance.
  Overall quality of schools was specifiedas either "excellent", "good", "fairly good", or "poor".
  The condition o f schools was specified as either having improved, deteriorated, or remained unchanged during the
last 5 years.

The urbadrural disparities in school characteristics documented above have poverty implications,
since poverty i s more prevalent inrural areas (29.8 percent in2003, compared to 22.6 percent in
urban areas). Table 1.3 strengthens this point by showing that schools that serve poorer children
are less likely to have a telephone connection or access to piped water in satisfactory condition,
with rural areas faring worse than urban areas. Inaddition, the schools that serve the wealthiest
quintile o f the population are less likely to have at least one buildingin unsatisfactory condition
(45.8 percent compared to roughly 60 percent for all other quintiles). Finally, the last column in
Table 1.3 shows a clear trend o f schools serving better-off student populations being closer to the
district center.

                                                            32

-
Table 1.3: School attribute bywelfarl
                                                            I

                                    Primary     Secondary       Phone      Piped water     At least one    Distance
                                    teachers     teachers     connection  in satisfactory  building in   from district
 Quintile and                      trained in   trained in     (percent)    condition     unsatisfactory   center to
 geographic         Enrolled-to-   1999-2003    1999-2003                   (percent)      condition     school (km)
 location          capacity ratio  (percent)     (percent)                                  (percent)
 Poorest quintile
        Rural          1.6            52.9         49.3          40.6         41.5             62.8          16.4

       Urban           1.2            63.4         62.5          53.2         46.5             43.6          9.5

        Total          1.6            53.6         50.1          41.4         41.8             61.6          16.0

 Quintile 2
        Rural          1.5            58.7         48.9          57.6         45.5             63.8          11.0

       Urban           1.6            63.1         44.8          48.1         45.9             76.5          14.7

        Total          1.5            59.3         48.3          56.3         45.6             65.6          11.5

 Quintile 3
        Rural          1.5            59.8         44.7          48.8         39.4             55.8          15.6

       Urban           1.5            64.3         51.8          65.8         61.2             67.3          6.0

        Total          1.5            62.0         48.1          57.0         49.9             61.4          11.0

 Quintile 4
        Rural          1.4            56.1         38.2          34.5         23.6             60.6          21.9

       Urban           1.2            64.2         51.4          79.6         59.0             58.0          4.4

        Total          1.2           63.4          50.1          75.3         55.6             58.3          6.1

 Richest quintile
        Rural          1.7            69.6                                    42.9             85.9          5.8

       Urban           1.1            64.9                                    61.8             44.8          3.7

        Total          1.1           65.0          58.0                       61.4             45.8          3.8

 Overall
       Rural           1.5           57.5          47.3          49.6         41.3            61.6           14.2

       Urban           1.2           64.5          54.3                       59.9             54.3          4.7

        Total          1.3           61.9          51.7          69.3         53.1            57.1           8.2
Source: Merged URPS wave 1        005) and "passportization" (2005) datas

The management structure o f the education sector is extremely fragmented among two competing
government agencies: the Ministry of Public Education (MPE) and the Ministry of Higher
Education (MHE). Eighty percent of all preschool, primary, and general secondary education
institutions are managed by the Ministry o f Public Education (MPE). Higher Education i s
managed by the Ministry o f Higher Education (MHE), which i s also the case for the new
specialized secondary schools that are managed through the MHE Center for Specialized
Secondary Education. This arrangement makes it difficult to assure coherence and efficiency o f
management across the twelve grades of the compulsory education cycle. Higher education
remains centrally financed and managed. The management o f most preschools, primary,
secondary and specialized secondary schools are ostensibly decentralized to local governments
(hokirniats). But there i s a fundamental disconnect between local governments' responsibilities
for managing education and their means for doing so. In order to keep schools functioning, the
state budget finances whatever local governments - oblasts or rayons - are not able to finance
through their own resources. It does so by varying the percentage o f the locally collected VAT
and other central taxes. General secondary schools are financed through the MPE's budget;
specialized secondary schools are financed through the budget o f MHE's Center for Specialized
Secondary Education.




                                                      33

Existingstudies (including the Bank's Public Expenditure Review (PER) further suggest that the
cost-effectiveness and labor market relevance o f education spending, particularly on vocational
secondary education, is low. Statistics on learning achievement are not nationally available and a
systematic analysis o f access issues has not so far been carried out. Further work i s therefore
needed both to develop an adequate monitoring system and to improve targeting o f government
expenditures.

Untilthis APL,working relationshipsbetween Uzbekistan and the World Bank hadnot included
borrowing for education although a strong policy dialogue on sector developments was
maintained.    As mentioned above, the School Education Development Program comprises a
major program o f school rehabilitation and construction, provision o f educational materials and
equipment (including IT and internet access), and training o f teachers and school principals. The
Government o f Uzbekistan i s focusing on school rehabilitation and construction while
international financial institutions (including the Asian Development Bank, the Islamic
Development Bank, and the World Bank) as well as bilateral donors are providing support to
other Program components.        This APL, in particular, provides both financial and technical
support to several aspects o f the SEDP, including the provision of educational materials and
training o f teachers. The APL i s therefore complementary to ongoing reform in the education
sector. At the same time, it strengthens the pro-poor aspects o f the SEDP by targeting the rural
poor in its interventions; it promotes effective teaching and student learning by, inter alia,
supporting the novel approaches of school-based teacher training and community involvement in
schools; and it highlights improving the efficiency o f spending by supporting the reform o f
education finance.




                                                 34

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or otherAgencies
                              UZBEKISTAN: BASIC EDUCATION


Donors Projects                Start and    Content                                           Georgraphic
                               comDletion                                                     coverage
       TA: Monitoring                       Policy analysis, information management
ADB    Implementationof         1997-2003
       EducationReform,                                                                       Country-wide
       Loan: Basic                          Supplyof equipment, teacher training, curriculum
       Education                1997-2004   development, ICT, infrastructure,textbook and
       Development                          educational materials,management                  Country-wide

       TA: Basic Education                  A sub-sector review aiming at formulating an
       StaffDevelopment         1998-1999   adequatepolicy frameworkfor staff development
       Program                              anddevelopment of adetailedproposalfor aBasic
                                            EducationStaffDevelopmentProject.
                                            Improving curriculum andtextbook development
       TA: Textbook Sector                  chainfrom curriculum planning to textbook
       Development              2003-2004   distribution. Improving learningachievementsof
       Program                              pupils enrolledincompulsoryeducation(grades 1-
                                            12), increasingaccessof the poor to quality
                                            education.                                        Pilot
                                             Assessment of education administrationtraining
                                            needs of the administrativepersonnel, policy
                                            studies inthe areas of (a) staffdevelopment, (b)
                                            non-governmentprovision of education, (c)
                                            education finance, and(iii)  training of school
       Loan: Education                      principalsanddistrict administrators.Establishing
       Sector Development       2003-2007   adistanceeducationcapacity to conduct teacher
       Programand Project                   training andretraining. Strengtheningcommunity
                                            involvementinschoolingand improving learning
                                            conditionsthrough rehabilitation ofthe physical
                                            infrastructureandprovision o fequipment for
                                            resource-poor schools, assistanceto communities
                                            inestablishingautonomousandeffectiveschool
                                            boards, and school grantson a competitivebasis    Country-wide
                                            Efficient and sustainableprovision of affordable
                                            textbooksnationwide, andother learningmaterials
       Loan: Second                         supportedby necessaryinstitutional andpolicy
       Textbook                 2004-2009   reforms.Four components:(i) strengthening the
       Development                          educational policy framework; (ii)  sustainable
                                            provision of textbooks;(iii)school library
                                            development, and (iv) book sector development.    Country-wide
                                            (i) procurement of equipment for supplyingto
       Loan: Introduction of    Expected    schools; (ii)reinforcing professionaldevelopment
       ITto General             start date  of school teacher for supportingITintroduction;
       SecondarySchools        2006         (iii) developinglearningandmethodology
                                (5 years)   resourcesfor IT support; and(iv) capacity
                                            building andmanagementsupport.                    Country-wide
                                            Minorschool rehabilitation,teachertraining        6 pilot special
                                            materialsdevelopment, management,M&E and          schools inthree
       Basic Educationfor                   publicity                                         regions
       Childrenwith Special    2006-2008                                                      Surkhandarya,
       Needs (JFPR grant)                                                                     Kashkadarya,
                                                                                              Tashkent Obasts and
                                                                                              Tashkent city
       Global Education                     Curriculumdevelopment, educationalmaterials,
       Initiative; Sanitation,              training of teachers, families, and communities.  Selected districts in

UNICEF Water use, and                                                                         Andijan, Ferghana,
       Sanitary Educationin    current                                                        Karakalpakstan,
       Schools and                                                                            Khorezm, Syrdarya,
       communities,Family                                                                     Tashkent regions

                                                      35

Donors  Projects      Start and  Content                                          Georgraphic
                      completion                                                  coverage

I       education


                                 training, curriculum development                 selectedregions:
USAID   PEAKS, ICT    closed                                                      Karakalpakstan,
F                                                                                 Ferghana, Andijan,


        ACCELS        closed     training (English)                              Country-wide
                                 Academic andteachingstaff exchangeprograms,
I       IREX          closed     ICTprograminschools,                            Country-wide
                                 Textbook development, textbookrental system,
British                          training for managementand trainersofteacher
Council               on-going   upgradecourses, distance education, student and
                                 teacher exchange programs




                                          36

                             Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                                 UZBEKISTAN: BASICEDUCATION

                                          ResultsFramework

Program Purpose                      Outcome Indicator                    Use of Outcome Information
Support Uzbekistan's efforts to      0Students performance on             0To monitor progress towards
improve effectiveness o f teaching    standardized student assessment      achievement of Government's
ingeneralsecondary education         0Percentage o f school boards         program goals and APL objectives
and pre-schools by providing          participating inschool               To improve methodology and
students with the new knowledge       improvement activities.              content o f teacher training
and skills required inthe
contemporary global economy
and increasing community
involvement in school decision


Improved effectiveness o f           0Student learning achievement as      To monitor improvement on
teaching ingeneral secondary          measured by a new standardized       education attainment and student
educationlocated inpoor areas so      test of learning achievement to be   learning and provide feedback to
that students will graduate on        administered to a sample o f         education authorities, schools,
time with competencies and skills     students inproject and non-          teachers, employers, parents and
that are relevant to participate ina  project schools.                     students.
globalized world.                    0More equitable distribution and      To correct inequities and
Improved efficiency o f budget        increased efficiency inutilization   inefficiencies inbudgetallocation
allocation and strengthened           o fbudget ingeneral secondary        and utilization of inbasic
budget management and                 education.                           education.
accounting ingeneral secondary       0Information on base line            0To monitor impact ofpolicies and
education.                            indicators is collected and          programmatic interventions
Improved capacity o f the             analyzed at least once a year.
MinistryofPublic Educationto
implementandmonitor

                                                                               fIntermediate Outc

Component1:Learning                   Modem teaching and learning         0Ensure that teaching materials and
conditions inpre-schools and          materials i s available inat least   equipment are reaching schools.
grades one to four o f general        80% o f all targeted classes in
secondary educationclassrooms         project schools.
have improved as a result o f
teachmg materials being
available.
Component2: Increase capacity         In-service teacher training         0Ensurethat inservice teacher
o fthe Republican Institute for       institutes have adopted new          training institutes have the capacity
Pre-School Teacher Training and       school based teacher training        to provide school based teacher
inthe Republican Institute for        strategies                           training.
Teacher Training to provide          0At least 163 facilitators for
training on child centered            introducing child centered
teaching strategies to a larger       teaching strategies inschools have
number ofteachers inany given         beentrained.
year                                  Availability o fnew training
                                      materials to be used inphase two.
Component3: Improved school           Active participation o f school      Decisions to move to phase two.
responsiveness to local needs and     boards inneeds assessment and        Stimulate community involvement
demands through activation o f        selection of learning materials.     inschool immovementactivities


                                                      37

school boards.                                                         and decision making.

Component 4: Create                Agreement on per-capita funding     Assess readiness for scaling up
institutional conditions for more  formula.                            per-capita funding.
efficient use o f education        Readiness of implementation         Monitor allocation o f education
resources ingeneral secondary      plan, and training materials for    expendituresinfavor o f cost-
education.                         introducing the per capita funding  effective items.
                                   Norms and regulations to support
                                   per capita fimding are inplace.
Component5: Stronger capacity      Student assessmentpiloted and       Provide feed-back to education
for MPE to monitor and evaluate    information usedto inform           authorities on quality o f education
the impact o fprojects and         decisions on teacher training.      and budget related decision
programs                           School board survey conducted       making.
                                   andusedto decide if continuation    Decisionto move to phase two.
                                   o f phase two is plausible.




                                                   38

       FZ   / E
             x




       S
             m




-
d
m d


       +
       6

Triggers for the transition from Phase one to Phase two. The second phase will be initiated
under two conditions: (i)   school boards in at least 75% o f project school have participated in
school needs assessment and prioritization o f learning materials; and (ii)standardized student
assessment has been piloted in a representative sample o f students inboth project as well as non-
project schools.

A key indicator for the transition from phase one to phase is the activation o f School Boards.
According to MPE estimates 65% o f schools have already established School Boards. However,
there i s not independent information on how active they are. As part o f the LSMS household
survey planned for October o f 2006 the World Bank will conduct a school survey to establish a
baseline data that will be used to assess School Board involvement on school activities. A repeat
survey will be conducted by April or M a y o f next year to assess the impact o f the project on
activating School Boards.

The performance indicators listed bellow for phase one would complement the above mentioned
"triggers".  They will be used to assess readiness to implement phase two activities in each
component and to make corrective changes in component design or implementation plans as
needed.      The project will also monitor a series o f output indicators presented in Annex 4.
Progress monitoring o f these indicators will set the basis for planning and negotiations on phase
two ofthe project.

Objective 1: Improve teaching conditions in pre-school and in grades one to four of general
secondary schools.
     0   At least 75% o f targeted schools have conducted a needs assessment and submitted to
         their respective rayons their priority list for receiving teaching and learning materials.

Objective 2: Modernize and strengthen the capacity of the Republican Institutefor Pre-School
and the Republican Institutefor Teacher Training.
         A total 163 facilitators trained and training materials ready to start training school
         teachers' teams duringphase two o f the project

Objective 3: Lay the ground workfor introducingper-capitafinancing.
         Per-capita formula adopted and training materials to support its introduction are
         available.
         New regulations inplace to support introduction o f per-capita funding.

Objective 4: Improved capacity of the Ministry of Public Education to implement and monitor
investmentprograms.
     0   Standardized student assessment has been conducted on a pilot based to a representative
         sample o f students in project schools. The fulfillment o f this indicator will function as a
         trigger for movingto phase two o fthe program;
     0   Information on base line indicators i s collected and analyzed during annual project
         review meeting;
     0   Timely implementation progress reports produced bi-annually by main education units
         involved inthe project.




                                                   40

                             Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                             UZBEKISTAN: BASIC EDUCATION

The proposed APL consists o f five closely inter-related components grouped intwo main areas.
The first area consist o f component one, two and three which are all oriented toward the
improvement of learning and teaching conditions in general secondary schools located in poor
areas. Component one focuses on improving students learning conditions in pre-school and
general secondary schools through the provision of learning materials and equipment. The second
component aims at improving the quality o f teaching in those schools by upgrading teaching
skills and competencies of teachers and by promoting cooperation-based methods in schools. The
third component seeks improve learning conditions by stimulating and strengtheningcommunity
participation inschool decision making.

The second area consist o f component four and five. These components are oriented towards
improving the management and monitoring capacity o f the sector. Component four intends to
improve efficiency in allocation and utilization o f public financial resources in education by
strengthening the capacity of the sector on budget planning and execution. The last component
will strengthen both the capacity o f the Ministry o f Public Education to effectively manage and
coordinate the implementation of the project and to monitor itsprogress and impact.

The implementationo fthe APL will be done intwo phases with an overall duration o f four years.
The first phase will last one year and a half, and will concentrate on setting up conditions for
stimulating community involvement in school decision making processes through the activation
of school boards; on strengtheningthe capacity o f teacher training institutions to provide training
to an increased number of teachers during a given academic year; and on creating conditions for
introducing per-capita funding in general secondary schools. During this phase the MPE will
make a concerted effort to improve learning conditions inpre-schools and ingrades one to four of
participating school through the provision of teaching and learning materials. Finally, the MPE
will improve its capacity to implement investment programs and to monitor and evaluate the
impact o f interventions with a special focus on assessingprogress on students' learning.

Based on the institutional conditions developed duringphase one, phase two o f the program will
help improve competencies, knowledge and skills of pre-school and primary school teachers to
works inteams and to use child centered and active teaching approaches, and student assessment
methods consistent with the new teaching. Duringphase two school board will be encourage to
prepare proposals for school improvement interventions and the MPE will scale up the
introduction of per capita funding inBukhara oblast.

The transition from phase one to phase two will be conditioned to the achievement of significant
progress in the activation of School Boards. According to MPE estimates 65% o f schools have
already established School Boards. However, there i s not independent information on how active
they are. As part of the LSMS household survey planned for October o f 2006 the World Bank
will conduct a school survey to establish a baseline data that will be usedto assess School Board
involvement on school activities. A repeat survey will be conducted by April or May o f next year
to assess the impact o f the project on activating School Boards. The project will also monitor a
series of output indicators presented in this annex together with the description of each
component.      Progress monitoring o f these indicators will set the basis for planning and
negotiations on phase two of the project. A second indicator that will be used as a trigger for
phase two i s student assessment. The MPE would have to carry out a standardized student
assessment to a sample of students attendingproject as well as non-project schools.



                                                 41

What follows i s a description o f the overall project activities with specific attention to the
implementation and financing o f activities corresponding to phase one.

Component 1: Provision of Learning Materials and Resources for Pre-School and for
                  Grades one to four of General Schools and Pre-Schools. (Total estimated
                  cost US$9.8 million)

The overall objective o f this component i s to improve the quality o f teaching and learning in the
targeted schools by providing them with modern, l o w cost and high impact learning materials and
resources. This i s to be done in full alignment with the priorities and on-going activities o f the
School EducationDevelopment Program (2004-2009) and incoordination with educationprojects
supported by other donors also focused on equipping schools with teaching and learning
resources, materials and aids. Specific objectives for t h s component are:

    0   Improve student learning conditions and quality o f teaching in selected rural and remote
         schools through the provision o f priority teaching materials and equipment.
    0   Provide the means (available information, improved logistics and demand-driven
        approach) for rural/remote schools to have better access to teaching materials and
        resources, thus beginning to close the gap between better-equipped urban schools and
        underserved rural schools.

Duringphase one the project will finance the provision o f teaching and learningmaterials inpre-
schools and in all classes o f grades one to four o f the targeted schools. The process o f deciding
what type o f teaching materials each school will receive will be demand driven with a strong
participation o f the school community and parents through their respective school boards. School
boards will be activated as part o factivities financed under component three.

Duringthe life o fthe project, this component will finance the following activities in 1501general
secondary schools and 673 preparatory groups in 598 pre-schools in 23 rayons located in seven
oblast': (i)provision o f learning materials and resources to selected pre-schools and stand-alone
primary schools; (ii)    demand-driven provision o f learning materials and resources to selected
general secondary schools; (iii)    targeted training to rayon heads, inspectors, officials in charge o f
monitoring and evaluation, and heads o f the Centers o f vocational orientation and psychological
counseling as local implementation agencies and actors for this component. Pre-schools will
receive all items containedina set list o f materials and equipment.

For general secondary schools, the project will promote full participation o f school directors,
teachers and parents in the selection o f materials and equipment through active dissemination o f
information and a set o f procedures which ensure a demand led approach. As a consequence, the
provision o f learning materials and resources to general secondary schools will be done through
standard request forms (School Request Manual: SRM) prepared by schools on the basis of an
evaluation o f their needs, priorities and capacities. The MPE will be responsible for the definition
o f procedures to be used in order to guide schools in the preparation o f their requests and
definition o f priorities, the establishment o f the evaluation criteria o f school requests, and, when
appropriate, all the tasks related to procurement and distribution o f materials. Given the fact that
there i s considerable disparity among the participating schools in terms o f materials and
equipment, and the fact that they may be getting those materials from different sources, an
estimative budget ceiling will be established for each school or category thereof. The School
Request Manual (SRM) will also be used to carry out an inventory which will, on the one hand,


8See Annex 6 for the list of oblast and rayons that will benefit from the project.


                                                    42

update the available passportizaton information obtained in 2004 and, on the other, take stock o f
all the different sources of support for materials and equipment in participating schools. All this
will stimulate the demand-driven approach to the choice of materials and equipment that this
project component aims to attain.

The S R M should contain at least the following:

      -     General information:
               e   Introduction to the objectives o f the Basic Education Project in the context o f
                  the National EducationDevelopment Project.
               e   Objectivesofteaching and learningmaterials andresourcesprovision.
                   List of teaching and learning materials and resources.
               0   Budget ceiling or estimative lump-sumcorresponding to each category or type
                   of school
               0   Contact persons at the Rayon and Oblast level available for further information
                   and instructions.
      -     Informationto be providedby schools:
               e   Inventory of available teaching and learning materials at the school.
               e   Inventory of teaching and learning materials and equipment that i s to be
                   delivered to the school under a differentnational or international project.
               0   Rationale for schools needs: Short account o f how teaching and learning
                   materials and resources are used at the moment.
                   Selection of the teaching and learningmaterials chosen by schools.
               0   School plans for effective use o f these materials (teachers' training,
                   organizational arrangements, mentoring etc.). How many teachers and students
                   will use the materials? Which methodological changes should be introduced in
                   lessons to make an effective use o f the materials and resources and guarantee
                   student outcomes and teachers' continuous professionallearning?
                   Schoolplans for effective maintenance of the chosen materials and equipment.

Proposed investments within this component will lead to the increase - or the recuperation - o f
public credibility and confidence on the education system, which in turn will result in increasing
participation rates, stakeholder involvement and overall quality. Moreover, cost-effective
production and development of teaching aids will stop and revert the perceived deterioration o f
education quality inUzbekistan and ease worlung conditions for many teachers.

From the perspective of schools, the Component will favor a bottom-up approach to needs
identification with regard to teaching and learning materials, emphasizing the role o f teachers,
principals and school boards in making decisions as to which materials and resources are most
neededintheir schools and why. This should leadto increased levels of use of available materials
and, inturn, to better results interms o f student learning.

From the perspective o f the Ministry o f Public Education and of Oblast and Rayon education
authorities, the implementation of this Component will add to their capacity to systematically
review current policies, procedures, projects, rules and regulations in the field o f teaching and
learning materials, emphasizing aspects o f cost-effectiveness, supply and demand constraints,
production, distribution and quality control and evaluation.

The main implementation agency for this component will be the MPE Department o f Development
and Organization o f Education in General Schools (Mr. Asadov, Head). The Department o f School



                                                  43

Endowment (Mr. Amanov, Head) and the Department o f Organization (Mr. Daniyarov, Head) will
also be involved in some key implementation arrangements. It i s envisaged that a number o f national
consultants will be contracted to support MPE Departments throughout implementation.

Rayon education authorities (a total o f 23) will be the local implementation agencies, responsible for
the day-to-day "interface" with schools. Rayons will assist schools with their proposals, will
coordinate training activities provided in component 2, and will take the lead in data-gathering for
monitoring and evaluation o f the component. Centers o f vocational orientation and psychological
counseling will also play a role in disseminating good practice through the rayon school network and
in ensuring the relevance of data related to the impact of this component on student learning. Rayon
Heads of the Public Education Department will be the overall coordinators for implementation o f the
Component at the Rayon level. Inparticular, Rayon Methodologists and, when applicable, Monitoring
and Evaluation Specialists and Heads o f the Centers for Vocational Educationwill:

         Support schools in putting together their School Request Manual, providing key
        information on the evaluation criteria on the one hand, and on the characteristics and
        potential o f the different materials and equipment offered inthe MPEList.
        Provide, on a regular basis, mentoring and consulting to schools, principals and teachers,
        indemonstrating effective uses ofthe selectedmaterials andequipment.
        Be in charge o f conducting data collection for monitoring and evaluation o f the
        Component.
In addition, Oblast education authorities (a total o f 7) will coordinate the implementation of the
component across the rayons participating in the project. More specifically, they will receive the
schools' requests/applications o f learning materials from the different rayons and will be in charge o f
evaluating them according to a set of previously defined criteria before sending them along to the
MPE. It i s envisaged that school principals and school community stakeholders (i.e., parent
associations, school boards, etc.) are to be included inOblast evaluation committees).

Criteria for evaluation o f school requests will include at least the following:

                 Compliance with the assignedbudget ceiling or lump-sum.
                 Consistency of the request with the declared inventory o f materials and
                 equipment.
                 Continuity and innovation between current and proposed classroom practices.
                 Number o f teachers and students who will use the materials and equipment.
                 Number of different subjects and areas inwhich the materials and equipment will
                 be used.
                 Awareness of the needed methodological changes.
                 Feasibility o f maintenance plan.

The implementation o f this component will be assessed through the following set o f output
indicators: (i)Actual levels o f use of different types of materials (in other words, the degree o f
curriculum integration o f the new materials and equipment); and (ii)      the extent to which schools
eventually receivedwhat they demanded.

Moreover, over the life o f the project, project impact will be measured by: (i)    Impact on student
learning. This can be measured comparing the evolution of student achievement in the same
school, using the monitoring system presently in place (managed by the MPE Department o f
Standards and Monitoring) and also comparing with control schools in non-participating rayons
(with a centrally administered standardized test); and (ii) time graduation rates from general
                                                              on


                                                  44

secondary education (baseline year will be 2005. The first o f these three indicators will also be
used to assess the impact o f other interventions promoted under the project therefore they will be
usedwithin a more comprehensive impact evaluation framework that will be put together to assist
the MPEasses its overall program and not only this project.

Component 2: Strengtheningof In-Service Trainingfor Teachers and Principals in General
                 Secondary Schools and Pre-Schools (Total estimated cost US$3.8 million)

The overall objective o f this component i s to enhance the quality o f teaching and learning in 1501
general education and 598 pre-schools located in 23 rayons and seven oblasts. This will be done
by upgrading teaching slulls, competencies and knowledge o f teacher from these schools so they
use child centered active learning strategies, complementary student assessment methods,
cooperation-based work methods and made effective use o f modem teaching aids. The
component will also support the training o f school directors to introduce them to the teacher
training program that the teachers will be receiving, and to introduce them to resource
management and community mobilization knowledge and techniques. It is expected that by the
end o f the project there will be an improvement in students learning achievement and that
teachers in beneficiary schools will be worlung in teams, will be learning from each other and
sharing teaching strategies, and will be adapting their teaching strateges to the socio-economic
environment o f their students.

Duringphase one the project will help increase the capacity inthe Republican Institute for pre-
school teacher training and in the Republican Institute to provide training to a larger number o f
teachers in any given year by introducing school based teacher training strategies. The main
activities to be finance during this phase include technical assistance for the development o f
school based training modules and materials, and o f monitoring and evaluation strategies. The
project will also finance provision o f teaching equipment and materials for the Republican
Institutes, Regional Teacher Training Institutes, Rayon Methodological Centers and School
Teachers' Rooms.

Inaddition to buildingcapacity at the RepublicanCenters, bythe end ofphase one there will be a
total o f 168 facilitators trained ready to start worlung with school teachers' teams during phase
two o f the project. These facilitators would not only have acquired new skills and competencies
on active teaching methodologies and team work but they will also be equipped with a set of
teaching materials to facilitate their work.

During phase two, in each participating school a team o f three to five teachers (depending on
school size) will be established to participate in a series o f four one-week-long training events
where they will work and learn together with teams coming from other schools within a given
rayon. Each school team will in-turnbe responsible for training their colleagues and introduce in
their schools child centered and active teaching approaches, student assessment methods
consistent with the new teaching, effective use o f teaching aids and materials, and for creating a
culture o f collaboration and continuous learning within the school. After each training event,
school teams will go back to their schools to work and share their experience with their
colleagues. Duringthis time they will receive coaching and mentoring support from a team o f
facilitators responsible for their training. It i s expected that this practice will help the school
teams strengthen what they learned ineach module and thus buildup their skills.

School directors will also participate in a series o f three training event where they will become
familiar about the teacher training and will strengthen their skills and competencies on school
leadership; school-community collaboration; change management; resource management, etc. It



                                                  45

i s expected that school directors will play a key role in supporting the work o f the teachers' team
intheir schools.

By workmg inteams teachers will be learning from each others and, through collaborative work,
will develop new competencies and acquire new skills that will allow them to train the rest o f the
teachers in their schools. Teachers will be encouraged to search for teaching and learning
methods that are more appropriate to the reality o f their schools and students, thus making their
work more effective.

The training of teachers will be carried out by the 168 facilitators trained duringphase one. They
will work inteams inorder to ensure consistency and achieve maximum impact. Each team will
be composed o f two rayon education methodologists and one expert from the Oblast Institutes for
Teacher Training. The Republican Institute for Teacher Training (RITT) and the Republican
Institute for Pre-School Teacher Training (RIPTT)will be responsible for training the teams o f
facilitators. Each institute will establish a group o f experts that will also work in teams o f two to
train the facilitators. It i s estimated that eight expert groups from the RITT will train
approximately 37 teams o f facilitators that will be working with basic general schools; while five
expert groups from the RIPTT will train 23 teams o f pre-school facilitators. The Human
Resources and Teaching Staff Upgrade Department o f MPE will have the main responsibility for
monitoring and evaluating this component.

It is anticipatedthat short term international technical assistance will be needed for the design o f
the training modules o f the different parties involved in delivering training (staff from the
Republican Institutes, Oblast Institutes and rayon methodologists) and preparation o f the
respective training materials.

The Asian Development Bank (ADB) i s funding a parallel project (Information and
Communication Technology in Basic Education Project) that contemplates the establishment o f
860 Cluster Leader Schools in the whole country. Each cluster will contain on average eleven
schools. Where appropriate, School Cluster Leaders will be used as the places where training for
school teams will be organized and delivered.

The project will promote the use and adaptation o f training modules prepared by donors and
lending institutions and in particular the modules for school directors and teachers developed
under the USAID-PEAKS and UNICEF projects on interactive teaching methods; child centered
teaching; team and resource management; and community involvement.

This component will finance international technical assistance to MPE and Republican Centers
for designing training modules and production o f training materials; training o f staff from
Republican centers and Regional Institutes; training o f rayon education methodologists; training
o f school teacher's teams; training o f teachers; design, production and distribution o f training
materials; and provision o f training equipment to rayons, Regional Institutes'and Republican
Centers.

The development ofthe program is basedon the following assumptions:
         A relatively small moup o fteachers may initiate substantial changes inschools
         A team formed inthe school (3-5 teachers) will take part in a group o f training event to
         develop skills and competencies that will help them introduce innovations intheir schools
         and to encourage other teachers to contribute to changing school practices. From the very
         beginning a representative o f administration- school principal or hisher deputy - will be
         involved in the process. All the team members should be open to changes, be willing to



                                                  46

         learn and to share experience with other teachers. The team should be capable o f learning
         and working together; it should seek common solutions, get their colleagues interested in
         their activities, and create an atmosphere o f teaching and learning in the school's
         community.


0    Cooperation among teachers will encourage growth o f the teachers' professional
     competencies and the school's internal development.
         Teachers' teamwork will create conditions for teachers' development by learning from
         one another and searching for more effective teaching/learning methods rather than by
         individual work or by relying on advice o f external experts. The teams o f schools
         participating in the project will develop their professional competence through constant
         sharing o f experience. Teachers' cooperation at school and among schools will encourage
         bothteachers' professionalgrowth and improvement o f schools.

0    The use o f modem teaching aids, active teachindlearning methods and complementary
     evaluation methods will enhance the Quality o f the teaching;/learninp process inbasic general
     schools
         Teachers will learn how to apply active teaching/learning methods that are well suited to
         the learning needs o f their students and complementary students' assessment strategies
         and methods. They will also learn how to use teaching aids effectively. Reproductive
         methods o f learning will gradually transform into interpretational methods. The use o f
         teaching aids should make the education process more interestingto students and increase
         their motivation.

The implementation o f the component will be staged as follows:

Stage 1: Capacity development o f the Inter-Institutional Management Team and each o f the
Expert Groups located at the Republican Institute for Teacher Training and the Republican
Institute for Pre-School Teacher Training. This will be done with technical assistance and expert
support o f an international expert and a team o f local consultants with experience in the
introduction o f active learning methods in schools. The Expert Groups o f the Republican
Institutes will be responsible for the development o f the modules and training materials to be used
duringthe training o f school directors and o f oblast specialists and rayon methodologists, and for
the training o f these professionals. They will also work with the oblast specialist and rayon
methodologists in the preparation o f the training materials for training the school teacher's teams
and the teachers themselves.

Stage 2: Inbasic general school, a group o f 106 facilitators (methodologists from 23 rayons and
specialists from the seven Oblast Institutes for Teacher Training participating in the project) will
be prepared to work with 1,501 teachers' teams. Inpre-schools, a group o f 62 facilitators will be
prepared to work with 598 teachers' teams. The facilitators will work inteams o f three, consisting
in one specialist from the Oblast Institute for Teacher Training and two rayon methodologists.
The selection o f the methodologist that will be participating in the training will be done by the
Director o f the Rayono together with the Director o f the Oblono, inconsultation with the Director
o f the Oblast Institute for Teacher Training. The purpose o f the training is to train two
methodologists and one specialist from the Oblast Institute o f Teacher Training (OITT) on
techniques and procedures that will help them to operates as facilitators o f learning. It is
envisioned that by the end o f the training they will have acquire some basic facilitation and
mentoring skills that will allow them to help teachers learn how to teach their colleagues to
introduce child centered teachingtechniques that rely on active learning.




                                                 47

The training will consist o f three one-week long modules followed by two weeks o f on-the-field
coaching and mentoring provided by the expert's teams. During these weeks the facilitators are
expected to complete some practical assignments that will help them put into practice and test
what they learned duringthe week-long module.

                                     Training Scheme for Facilitators


  Expert Team
       from
  Republican
     Institutes




As part o f their training the facilitators will develop the training materials for the training o f the
school teams. This material will be developed as a join collaboration o f the facilitators and the
Expert Groups from the Republican Institutes. They will receive technical assistance and support
from the international and the local consultants.

It i s expected that this training will be done from mid October to midDecember during the first
year o f the project.

Stage 3: School directorddeputy directors from participating schools will participate in a series
o f three one-week-long training events. The training will include modules to understand the
training program o f school teams; to introduce the concepts o f effective schools and school
leaderships; to understand and be able to promote professional collaboration among teachers and
create community o f learners in schools; to promote community engagement; to understand
change management; and for the effective management o f school resources.                  The School
directorddeputy directors will be trained at the oblast level by the team o f oblast specialist and
rayon methodologists. After the training the directors will go back to their school where they will
begin working with their staff in the creation o f a community o f learning to promote the creation
o f an effective school. The first task will be the establishment o f a core teachers' facilitation team
composed o f 3 to 5 teachers (depending on the size o fthe school) that will receive further training
to help change the way school work. After each training event directors/deputies will receive
coaching and mentoring from their trainers.




                                                   48

                                                Training Scheme for School Directors



 One team O f
 oblast
 specialist and
 rayon
 methodologists




 A total of 1,501 directors from basic general schools and 598 directors from pre-schools will be trained by an oblast team
 of trainers/facilitators.
 Inaperiod of2 months, each oblast team (2 methodologists plus one specialist from the oblast Institute for teacher
 training) will train 4 groups o f directors from all the schools that will be sending teachers to participate inteachers' training
 during a given academic year.

Stage 4: Each school will form a team o f three to five teachers to participate in a series of four
one-week-long workshops. Inthe workshops they will join a similar team from other ten schools
and will jointly acquire knowledge and develop skills and competencies on how to create
effective schools; how to promote child centered learning environments in schools; how to
encourage active learning in classrooms and the creation of community of learners in schools;
peer mentoring; and complementary student assessment strategies. After each training session the
school team will go back to their schools to start working with their colleagues in the promotion
of team work in the school, the creation o f active learning environment in classrooms, the
introduction of student assessment methods that reinforce learning and the creation o f learning
communities.

Starting with the second workshop, the school teams will spend time during the workshops
reflecting on their experience, learning from each other and collecting good practices. Inbetween
each workshop the school teams will receive mentoring and coaching from the facilitators' team.
They will be encouraged to consult withteams from other schools.

The programfor improvingteachers' professional competencies will cover the following areas:
               What is, how to recognize and how to promote effective schools.
               Active learning theories, concepts and practices. Child centered teaching.
               How to identify and promote good, effective teaching.
               How to promote school as a learning community and community of learners within
               the school.
               How to promote active learning among colleagues and foster cooperation and mutual
               support.
               Methods of learningthrough cooperation ina classroom.
               Students' achievement andprogress assessmentthat will encourage learning.
               Promotion o f interactive teaching and learning with the help o f various aids and
               materials.
               Problem-solving at school.
               How to work inteam and foster classroom and school change.

In recent years a number of positive changes have been taking place in the area of teachers'
professional development through the work o fnon-governmentalorganizations and the support o f



                                                             49

donors (USAID-PEAKS, UNICEF, British Council, etc.) and international lending institutions
(ADB).But these changes have not permeated through the system due in part to lack o f local
capacity, the targeted nature o f the interventions, or to approaches to staff development intended
to reach individual teachers. These programs have produce valuable materials, developed
innovative training approaches and prepare a cadre o f teacher training specialist that will be
incorporated as appropriate in the implementation o f this component. The project will promote
the use and adaptation o f training modules prepared by donors and lending institutions and in
particular the modules for school directors and teachers developed under the USAID- PEAKS
project on interactive teaching methods; child centered teaching; team and resource management;
and community involvement.

This component will finance international technical assistance to MPE and Republican Centers
for designing training modules and production o f training materials; training o f staff from
Republican centers and Regional Institutes; training o f rayon education methodologists; training
o f school teacher's teams; training o f teachers; design, production and distribution o f training
materials; and provision o f training equipment to rayons, Regional Institutes and Republican
Centers.




                                                  50

   STRUCTUREOF PHASE4: WORKING WITH TEACHERS




  /        Examdes
                                               Practice

        Elementsof Training
         -- Examplesandmodels
            TheoryandKnowledge
                 -
Theory
  \      - PlanningandPracticewith peers
         -- Feedbackfrom
            On-the-jobExperimentingandReflection
                        experts and colleagues



                                          Experimenting
        Reflection




                             51

- I   N


Component3: SupportActivation of SchoolBoards (Total estimated cost US0.17 million)

The objective of this component is to strengthen and stimulate community participation in school
decision making processes.        There is strong empirical evidence that active community
involvement in school life contributes to improvement o f the school environment and students'
learning achievements. In Uzbekistan, School Boards are institutions with high potential to help
bring together a wide array o f actors relevant to the school life such as school administrators,
teachers, students, parents and mahalla representatives. The Government recently enacted
Regulation to promote the creation o f School Boards comprising parents and other school
stakeholders. As of today, due to lack of experience and knowledge within the education sector
on methodologies for school community mobilization and lack o f mechanisms to promote it, only
65 percent of Boards have been established and not all o f them are really active. In order to
stimulate the activation of School Boards the project will finance small grants provided to schools
on a competitive basis.

Duringphase one this component will support the MPE inits effort to activate the School Boards
in 1501 schools in23 selectedrayons. Itwill complement and build on experiences gained during
the implementation o f similar community mobilization activities under projects such as USAID
PEAKS, UNICEF, ADB and many local NGOs. It will finance local technical assistance, training
and small grants. The project will help increase the number of education specialist at all
levels of the education system with knowledge, competence and skills to promote
activation of School Boards and community participation.

In each rayon, a team of certified facilitators consisting of one certified oblast and several
certified rayon specialists will be responsible for training school directors on School Board
activation and on how to involve the school community on school needs assessment and
prioritization. These facilitators will also train School Boards on the preparation o f school grants
that will be provided underthe project duringphase 2.

During phase one the project will finance all training and promotion activities needed to get
parents and other members of the school community more involved on school activities. Special
attentionwill be givento their involvement inthe process of selection of learning materials.

During phase two the project will continue building capacity throughout the school system on
community mobilization and activation of school boards. In order to encourage school boards to
further their involvement on school improvement activities phase two of the project will also
provide school improve grants to school boards on a competitive basis. The activities under this
component during phase two can be divided into two subcomponents: (i)       capacity building; and
(ii)competitive grants for school improvement.

The main objective of this sub-component is to increase the number of education specialist at all
levels of the education system with knowledge, competence and skills on community
mobilization and activation o f School Boards. This will be done through a series of training and
technical assistance aimed at building institutional capacity on community mobilization and
establishment of School Boards. A group of specialists from Oblast Teacher Training Institutes,
Oblast Education Centers, and Rayono methodologists will the core of a team of facilitators
responsible for activating School Boards in the project rayons and, in the long run, countrywide.
At the end of the project there will be a cohort of 17 community mobilization facilitators inthe
seven project oblasts and 56 inthe twenty three project rayons.




                                                  54

MPE has limited experience and access to the knowledge, competencies and skills that are
required to stimulate parents' participation and community engagement in school activities. In
order to strengthen this capacity as well as the capacities o f oblast andrayon education offices the
MPE will hire consultant services to helpdevelop training modules and materials required to train
education sector staff in this area. The main responsibility of the service provider will be to
develop, organize and deliver training o f trainer's activities for selected staff from the oblast
institutes for teacher training (OITT), the oblast education centers (OEC) and Rayono staff. At the
end o f the training the participants that successfully complete all training activities will be
certified as school community mobilization facilitators. Based on previous experience with
similar type o f training, it i s expected that 73, out o f a total o f 119 participants will be certified as
facilitators: 17 from oblasts and 56 from rayons. The facilitators will inturn organize and conduct
school community mobilization training events for community representatives inrayon's schools
(3 representatives per school). After the training, Rayono facilitators (methodologists) will
continue providing coaching to school representatives in order to promote activation of School
Board; conduct needs assessment and prioritization; and prepare and write grant applications.

School Board should replace and amalgamate all other School Committees worlung in a school,
such as Committee for distribution o f textbooks and clothes to the poor school children,
Committee to support school infrastructure, Committee for National Concept "Oila-Mahalla-
Maktab", Parents' Committee, etc. This integration will enhance the capacity o f schools to
mobilize resources ina concerted and deliberate way. The School Boards are expected to actively
participate in the selection o f the learning materials to be provided under Component 1. In the
long run, as schools are given more autonomy and new mechanisms o f school funding are
introduced School Boards will play key role in decision making regarding distribution and use of
non-budgetary resources as well as budget funds.

Theschemefor the trainings is asfollow:
In each oblast, the service (trainer) provider hired by MPE conducts training of trainers (TOT)
activities to train staff nominated by the oblast department o f education (Obluno), the oblast
institutes for teacher training (OITTO, the oblast education centers (OEC) and the rayon education
departments (Rayono). From Rayono methodologists are the most likely staff to be nominated.
The number o f trainees from oblast and rayons will depend on the number and size o f schools
participatinginthe project. The training will be conducted inthe premises of OITT. By the end o f
TOT, the trainer provider will certify the trainees with good performance as facilitators o f school
community mobilization. It i s important to have facilitator from oblast participating in the
training events in order to keep the knowledge, and develop competencies and slulls at this level
for future scaling-up o f these activities to other rayons inthe oblast.

Ineach rayon, a team of SCM Facilitators consisting of one certified staff from the oblast and
several certified staffs from rayon will be responsible for providing orientation training to school
directors and training on SCM to groups o f school community representatives. It i s envisaged that
3 representatives from each school (school administration, teaching staff and community/parents)
will participate in the training together with teams from other 10 schools. SCM facilitators will
work in couples and will receive coaching from the training provider during the first training
event organized under their supervision. The training will last approximately 5 days for each
group o f school community representatives and 1 day orientation for school directors. Training
venue will be providedby Rayono. There will be 2-3 weeks pausesbetween series o f training in
rayons to enable rayon facilitators to monitor and facilitate community mobilization process in
the schools where they providedtraining.




                                                    55

Ineach school, trained school representatives will be responsible for conducting SCM activities,
facilitate School Boards establishment and needs assessment. Rayon SCM facilitators will
monitor the process and provide methodological support.

It is expected that once they are established the School Boards will consolidate or amalgamate all
other Committees workmg in a school such as the Committee for distribution of textbooks and
clothes to the poor school children, the Committee to support school infrastructure, the
Committee for National Concept "Oila-Mahalla-Maktab", the Parents' Committee, etc. inorder to
have a single body that will manage all community based activities in a school. The School
Boards are expected to have active participation inthe selection of the learning materials that will
beprovidedunder Component 1.

Rayon SCM facilitators will also provide procurement and financial management training to
School Boards that get grants.

Oblast and rayon SCM facilitators will disseminate best practice, facilitate networking and
experience sharing between School Boards inrayons and oblast.

 Table4.1: Typesof training envisagedunder component.
 Trainer              Trainee                  Subject                     Duration      Location
                                                                           (estimated)
 Trainer              OITT and OCE staff,      TOT on school community     10days        Oblast
                      rayonmethodologists      mobilization                per group o f
                                                                           trainees
 Trainer              Obluno and Rayono        Orientation training on     0.5 day       Oblast I
                      respective staff         component objectives and    per training  rayon
                                               SCM
 Trainer              Republican Grant         Training on grants          1day          Tashkent
                      Committee                evaluation
 Trainer              Oblast Grant             Training on grants          1day          Oblast
                      Committees               evaluation                  per oblast
 Trainer              Rayon Grant              Training on grants          1day          Rayon
                      Committees               evaluation                  per rayon
 SCM Trainers         School community         School community            5 days        Rayon
                      representatives          mobilization, school boards per group o f
                                               establishment etc.          schools
 Rayontrainers        School Boards who        Procurement, financial      1day          Rayon
 (methodologists)     were awarded the         management (bookkeeping     per group of
                      grants                   and accounting, account     schools
                                               management), relevant
                                               legislation, reporting, M&E




The training modules will includebutnot be limitedto the following topics:
     School community mobilization (SCM) concept
     SCM methodology and techniques (participatory process, focus groups discussions etc)
     School Boards and their role incommunity mobilization. SchoolBoards Charter.
    Key areas for SCM (like inclusive education, gender)
    Participatory needs assessment and prioritization
    Monitoringand evaluation
    Fundrising



                                                56

e   Grant proposals preparation
e   Basic procurement and accounting
e   Basic business administration (for income generating activities)
e   Training techniques (for TOT)

UNICEF i s in the process o f implementing its new program for the next two years. It envisages
development of training modules for Teacher Training Institutes on child-centered school and
other related topics. Depending on how advance the community mobilization module is by the
time o f implementation of this subcomponent the project will make a special effort to coordinate
in order not to duplicate activities and resources. Depending on UNICEF progress the Basic
Education Project would adapt and adopt the module developed with UNICEF support.

     Subcomvonent 3.2: Small wants to imvrove learning environment in schools

In order to activate and stimulate the establishment of School Boards the subcomponent will
finance, on a competitive basis, small grants o f up to $2,000 to be used for the improvement o f
school learning environment. School Boards will be invited to prepare and submit proposals to
fund school based initiative aimed at enhancing teaching and learning conditions in the school.
The proposals will be review and evaluated by grant committees operating at the republican,
oblast and rayon levels established under the supervision and coordination o f MPE. It i s expected
that demand-driven grants will not only stimulate the activation of School Boards but will also
get them engaged in promoting and supporting initiative related both to the improvement o f the
learning environment as well as to issues of student enrollment, attendance, education quality and
learning achievement.

Grant Committees will be established at different levels to review and approveheject grant
proposals from schools. The Rayon Grant Committee will be established by respective Obluno in
each project rayon. It will make preliminary screening o f the grant proposals and send selected
ones to the Oblast Grant Committee. Oblast Grant Committee will be establishedby MPE ineach
project oblast. It will make final decision on grants award. MPE will also establish Republican
Grant Committee that will decide on general allocation for oblast and will selectively review and
provide feedback on grants approved by Oblast Grant Committees.

The Gant Committees will includerepresentatives o f the education system (MPE, Obluno, Rayon
depending of the Committee level), facilitators from oblast and rayons and representatives for the
civil society. It will be desirable to have the Oblast Coordinators of the ADB Education project to
participate inthe Committees work.

Once a grant i s approved its implementation i s a responsibility of the School Board.

The following activities will be eligible under the small grants financing:
e   Income generating activities (IGA)
e   Equipment for workshops, agricultural facilities and inputs
e   Small works/measures for improving water-sanitation situation inschools
e   Activities for improving access to education and education attainment

Not eligible activities:
e   Constructioflehabilitation works.
e   Textbooks and learning materials
    Computers



                                                  57

0   Expensive equipment not relevant to IGA.
0   Recurrent cost.

Fundsflow mechanism

The mechanism for flow of funds under component 3 is reflected inthe flow o f fund chart of the
project. The component particular financial arrangements for the grants are in line with the
School Boards Charterg and are as follows. School Boards either use non-budget account o f a
school or have it under rayon education department. Grants provided by MPE under this
subcomponent must be used strictly in accordance with the approved grant application and with
authorization of the School Board. According to national regulations all payments for goods and
services procuredby the School Boards shouldbe made by bank transactions.

MonitoringandEvaluation

Monitoring of the component activities will be done at several levels:

    i)      At community level        - by   community auditing commission that i s elected by
             community andreports directly to community.

    ii)     At rayon level -by Rayono methodologists (SCM facilitator) and rayon authorities
    iii) Atoblastlevel-by Obluno, SCMoblastfacilitator,oblastauthorities.

    iv)     At republican level -by MDEIof MPE.
Monitoring and evaluation will also be done by the monitoring and evaluation unit of MPE as an
integral part of the overall project evaluation.




9The School Boards Charter was approved by MPE Order #260, October 2005.


                                                 58

Implementation Schedule"



  Preparation stage
  Establishment o f the Interdepartmental coordination       1MPE                     I ByNegotiations




 I arrangements etc.)                                     I                            I

   Hire Local Consultant to support MDEI, who to              MPE                       ByNovember, 2006
   develop methodology for schools needs assessment
   Development o f the methodology for schools needs          Consultant                By December, 2006
   assessment, including need for LMR for the primary
   grades.
   Design training materials to teach education               Consultant                By January, 2007
   departments specialists, school directors and SBs to
   assess school needs.
   Publication o f the designed materials (methodological     MPE                       ByFebruary, 2007
  recommendations for schools needs assessmentand
  training materials to teach school directors and SBs
   members).
   Training for 7 oblast, and 23 rayon education              Consultant                By February, 2007
   departments' representatives to use methodological
  recommendations.
  Training for school directors to use methodological         MPE, Oblast PED,          By April, 2007
  recommendations by education departments'                   Rayon PED,
   specialists                                                participating inproject
   Training for SBs members to use methodological             Project schools'          By May, 2007
   recommendations by school directors                        directors
   Participation o f the SBs in selection o f LMR for the     MPE                       ByJune, 2007
   primary grades.
   Hire Training Agency for TOT on SCM                        MPE                       By March, 2007
   Development o f the training modules for TOT, SCM          Training Agency           By May, 2006
   training, CGs training, orientation trainings.
   Development o f training materials
  Adoption o f the training modules and training          I   MPE                     I ByMay, 2007




   lo Assumption: credit i s effective on December lS',       2006



                                                              59

Component4: ImprovementinEducationFinancing,Budgeting,andManagement
                  (Totalestimated cost US$0.89 million)
The overall objective o f this component i s to improve efficiency o f general secondary education
financing by building capacity inthe education sector for budget planning and formulation, on the
one hand, and management and accounting, on the other, in the process o f expanding per capita
financing in the sector. The different actors involved in the implementation o f this component
include Ministry o f Public Education, oblast, city, rayon, as well as school-level education staff.
The component consists o f two phases.
         Phase I: Preparationfor expansion ofper capitafinancing in the education sector
The objective o f this first phase i s to lay the groundwork for expansion o f per capita financing in
the education sector by ascertaining the correct formula, designing an implementation plan,
preparing training materials, and putting all necessary legal and institutional prerequisites in
place.

The Uzbek authorities attach a highpriority to education, as reflected in the highlevels o f public
spending on the sector - close to 9 percent o f GDP in recent years. However, the high level o f
education spending inUzbekistan may reflect substantial inefficiencies in the use o f resources in
the sector. The country's current inputs-based education budgeting system i s one o f the likely
contributors to these inefficiencies. Under this system, the education budget is formed by the
Ministryo fFinance withthe help of itsregional divisions from individual school budgetrequests
that are provided based on detailed physical and financial input norms (e.g., teachers' hours o f
work per week    - 20 hours in general secondary). When the budget requests overrun the resource
envelope allocated to the education sector, the Ministry o f Finance adjusts the sector budget,
including through across-the-board budget cuts. Since the involvement o f the Ministry o f Public
Educationinthe budgeting process i s minimal, it cannot use the budget as a policy instrument. In
addition, the current system o f education finance does not encourage schools and rayon education
authorities to strive for cost efficiency and improved management since any possible reduction in
unit costs, for example through the merger o f classes or energy saving, would result inreduced
funding the following year. Furthermore, the system is overregulated and highly centralized at
the national level: rigid staffing rules combined with detailed line item budgeting give schools no
flexibility to adjust and use available funding more effectively. Finally, while current regulations
cannot be considered intentionally inequitable (there are very few preferences given to individual
regions), in practice, per pupil expenditures on general education at rayon and school level are
very uneven.

In this regard, capitation financing offers the potential for more efficient programming and
allocation o f education resources.        Paired with increased managerial autonomy for school
directors, capitation financing can provide a powerful incentive for more efficient use o f
resources. Therefore, the Ministries of Public Education and Finance launched a two-year pilot in
Akkurgan rayon (Tashkent oblast), financed by the U S A I D PEAKS project, introducing per
capita financing in 49 general secondary schools. The pilot began in January 2005 and was
scheduled to be completed by June 2007. In 2006, however, the pilot was discontinued by the
Government o f Uzbekistan as a result o f larger geopolitical rather than technical considerations.
Nonetheless, the pilot did implement for both 2006 and 2007 a unified per capita formula that
maintained budget neutrality. The reasons behind this budget neutrality include the desire to
minimize budgetary shocks to schools as a result o f the new financing methodology, as well as
the fact that overall 2006 and 2007 education budgets inAkkurgan were approved before schools
were able to develop their budgets based on the per capita formula. Initial results o f the pilot are




                                                    60

that, relative to the year 2005, the number o f students, teachers, and classes is lower in 2006, but
this translates into a stable class size and student-teacher ratio.

Therefore, in this first phase, the Ministry o f Public Education, in particular the Department o f
Forecasting, Financial Management, and Accounting, will be provided with technical assistance
to 1) learn from the experience to date o f the Akkurgan pilot in per capita financing in the
education sector; 2) assess the merits o f the different capitation financing formula options
available to Uzbekistan; 3) design a detailed implementation plan for expanding per capita
financing to the oblast level, including detailing the necessary legal and institutional
preconditions for scaling up; 4) design detailed training materials, tailored to the different actors
requiring training; and 5) design a monitoring and evaluation mechanism to assess the results of
implemented education financing reforms, including updating and revising the capitation formula
ifnecessary.

The choice was made to implement per capita financing ineducation inBukhara oblast first since
other project components will be active in this oblast and so synergies will be fostered between
different components thereby better leveraging project resources. A first step will therefore be
the collection o f necessary school data from all schools in Bukhara oblast. The collection of
these data will be undertaken incoordination with existing data collection efforts by the MPE and
ina sustainable manner, allowing for future expansion o f the database to the national level. The
data will be used, amongst other things, for purposes o f simulating school and overall budgets
under the different per capita finance formula options, in order to inform the choice o f the
appropriate formula for implementation. Inaddition, duringthis first preparatory phase, personal
computer sets will be procured for Bukhara oblast, rayon, and city education office economists
and accountants (total o f two sets per education office) as well as accountants in independent
schools.

The expansion o f per capita financing in the education sector in Uzbelustan coincides with the
introduction o f a new Treasury system in the country. The timing o f the roll-out o f the new
Treasury system is in selected oblasts as o f the beginning o f 2006, with country-wide
implementation by 2009. To date, the Republican level o f the MOPEis integratedinthe Treasury
system, and Bukhara oblast's entry into the system i s expected in 2007. The potential exists for
the new Treasury to implement financial controls in a manner that hampers the gains in spending
flexibility that are sought under per capita financing. On the other hand, it is possible to specify
budgetary appropriation rules (including the number o f chapters and the flexibility to switch
between chapters), to be implemented by the Treasury, that are commensurate with the new per
capita financing system inthe education sector. Inorder to achieve this positive complementarity
between per capita financing and the new Treasury, this first phase will facilitate interactions
between the Ministry o f Public Education and the Ministry o f Health in order to learn from the
experience o f the latter in implementing per capita financing reform in the context o f the new
Treasury. Inaddition, the Ministry o f Public Educationwill be assisted in actively pursuingwith
the Ministry o f Finance the specification o f appropriation rules in a manner consistent with per
capita financing inthe education sector.

In order to involve the main stakeholders in the implementation o f the expansion o f per capita
financing in the education sector, a worlung group will be established that will include
representation from the Ministries o f Public Education and Finance as well as Bukhara oblast,
amongst others It i s clear that in addition to the Republican level, directors, economists, and
accountants in the Oblast, City, and Rayon Education Offices, as well as school principals and
accountants, will have important roles to play.



                                                   61

        Phase 11:Capacity building in budgeting and accounting during expansion of per capita
        financing in the education sector

The specific objective of the second phase i s to scale up implementation o fper capita financing in
Bukhara oblast by first building capacity for education budgeting, management, and accounting
among central, oblast, local, and general secondary school-level staff.         The detailed training
materials, including tailored content for the different actors, will be one o f the outputs o f the first
phase, as mentioned above. In addition, capacity building in per capita financing during this
phase will occur intandem with the progress made on expanding the implementation o f per capita
financing inBukhara oblast, beginning with initially three rayons before encompassing the entire
oblast.

The Department o f Forecasting, Financial Management, and Accounting o f the Ministryo f Public
Education has the main responsibility for overall coordination and implementation o f this phase.
However, given the fact that per capita financing in education remains relatively new to the
Ministries o f Public Education and Finance themselves, the training during this phase will be
contracted out to an appropriate local university, institute, or business school. This local entity
will benefit from the collaboration with the international consultancy under the first phase, an
arrangement that aims to foster improvement in the capacity o f the local entity in the medium
term. In addition, the training modules for per capita financing, budgeting, management and
accounting for budgetary organizations will build on existing training modules under the USAID
PEAKS project.


Outputs ofthe Component
An extensive internationalconsultancy will provide the technical assistance duringthe first phase
"Preparation for expansion of per capita financing" to the Ministry o f Public Education, in
particular the staff o f the Department o f Forecasting, Financial Management, and Accounting.
Output indicators for the first phase are:

    a) Per capita formula adopted and training materials to support its introduction are ready to
        be used.
    b) New regulationsinplace to support introduction o fper capita funding.

Extensive training for oblast, city, rayon, and school-level education staff is envisioned under the
second phase "Capacity building in budgeting and accounting", with the caveat that training i s
restricted to Bukhara oblast. Output indicators are therefore:

    a) Numbers o f oblast, city, and rayon education office directors provided with general
         training on per capita financing, budgeting, and management;
    b) Numbers o f oblast, city, and rayon education office economists provided with specific
         training on per capita financing, budgeting, and management;
    c) Numbers of oblast, city, and rayon education office accountants provided with specific
        training on per capita financing and accounting;
    d) Numbers of school principals provided with general per capita finance, budgeting, and
        management training;
    e) Numbers of school accountants provided with specific training on per capita financing
         and accounting.




                                                  62

Outcomesofthe Component
The short-term outcome indicators are:-

     1) the number o f schools and rayons implementing per capita financing in the education
         sector;

     2) the production o f timely and reliable budget reports, on a monthly, quarterly, and annual
        basis, for the Ministry o f Finance by the Ministry o f Public Education under the new
         financing mechanism.

The more long-run outcome indicator i s the degree of improvement in the efficiency o f general
secondary educationpublic expenditures, measuredby improvements in
     1) student-teacher ratios;
     2) the ratio o f student achievement to education expenditures.


CoordinationandImplementationofthe Component
The Department o f Forecasting, Financial Management, and Accounting o f the Ministryo f Public
Education has the main responsibility for overall coordination and implementation o f this
component. In addition, a working group similar to the working group on the PEAKS project
will be established to oversee the expansion o f and commensurate training for per capita
financing.    The working group will comprise representatives from the Ministry o f Public
Education, Ministryo f Finance, PEAKS working group, and Bukhara oblast, amongst others. Its
main objective i s to provide a forum for discussion o f ensuing issues as activities are prepared
and implemented, the resolution o f these issues, or alternatively their referral to the relevant
authorities. The workmg group i s also expected to request and review a regular update on
implementationo fper capita financing inBukhara.


Descriptionof Activitiesand Sequenceof Implementation

Inthis section, activities are divided betweenthe first and secondphase ofthe project, where the
first phase lasts until August 2007, and the second phase the remainder o f the four years o f
implementation.

PhaseI

Step 1: Internationalconsultancy provides:
        detailing o f necessary preconditions for scaling up per capita financing to the level o f an
        entire oblast, including the legal and institutionalrequirements;
        evaluation o f existing options for per capita allocation formula for the education sector;
        technical assistance to MPE for deriving school, rayon, and oblast budgets for Bukhara
        oblast usingthe chosen formula;
        outline o f different training requirements for oblast, local, and school-level education
         staff inorder to successfully scale up per capita financing;
        technical assistance to MPE on training materials, including tailored content for the
        different actors;
        technical assistance to MPE on plan for detailed implementation o f expansion of per
        capita financing;
        technical assistance to MPE for design o f monitoring and evaluation mechanism o f
        piloted per capita financing, including indicators and expenditure tracking system.



                                                 63

Step 2: Ministryof Public Education:
    a) collects relevant school data for all schools inBukhara oblast;
    b) choosesthe financing formula after conductingbudgetary simulations;
    c) derives school, rayon, and oblast budgets for Bukhara oblast usingthe chosen formula;
    d) either directly fulfills or bring about fulfillment of necessary legal and institutional
         preconditions for scalingupper capita financing to the level of an entire oblast;
    e)   initiates and completes process o f identifying appropriate contractor(s) for trainings
         requiredfor different sets of actors;
    f) designs plan for detailed implementation and monitoring and evaluation of expansion of
         per capita financing;
    g) hires the local consultant who will provide support to the Department o f Forecasting,
         Financial Management, and Accounting;
    h) procures personal computer sets for Bukhara oblast, rayon, and city education office
         economists and accountants (total of two sets per education office) as well as accountants
         inindependent schools.

PhaseII

Step 3: Training contractor(s) provide relevant training on per capita financing, budgeting, and
management inBukhara to:
    a) oblast, city, andrayon education office directors;
    b) oblast, city, andrayon education office economists;
    c) oblast, city, and rayon education office accountants;
    d) school principals; and
    e)   school accountants.

Step 4: Per capita financing is implementedinthree rayons of Bukhara oblast.

Step 5: Training contractor(s) provide on-the-job training on accounting to Rayon Education
Office accountants and school accountants inBukhara oblast.

Step 6: MinistryofPublic Educationundertakes assessment ofexperience inper capita financing
infirst three rayons inBukhara oblast, includingpotentially revising and updating the per capita
finance formula.

Step 7:Per capita financing is implementedinthe remainingrayons ofBukhara oblast.

Step 8: MinistryofPublic Educationundertakes assessment of experience inper capita financing
inentirety ofBukhara oblast.

Other Technical Assistanceto Ministryof PublicEducation

For the duration o f the project, a full-time local consultant will sit in the Department o f
Forecasting, Financial Management, and Accounting, and report to its director. The role o f this
consultant will be to provide support to the Department in the implementation o f this project
component. Amongst other tasks, this consultant will ensure coordination with other project
components, as well as with the relevant actors outside the Ministry of Public Education (e.g.
MinistryofFinance andthe working group onper capita financing inBukhara oblast).




                                                64

Component5: Support for ProjectManagement andResultsManagement
                  (Total estimated cost US$0.44 million)

Project Munugement: The objective o f this component i s to effectively coordinate and implement the
Basic Education Project, and in doing so, strengthen the capacity o f the MPE and other education
institutions to manage, implement, monitor and evaluate the impact o f education improvement
projects.

The Project will be implemented directly by the Ministry o f Public Education (MPE) including the
involvement o f subordinate units, such as different republican centers, as well as oblast and rayon
education agencies. Consultant support for the project will be provided on a limited basis where there
i s a critical need. Component five, in particular, will be coordinated by a four-person project support
o f local consultants situated in the Department o f School Endowment. This existing Department i s
currently responsible for all procurement activities in the MPE. The support team will share office
space with the existing staff, and will work in parallel with them, sharing information on technical
matters, as well as supplies and computers and office related equipment that will be provided under the
project. However, the team will report directly to one o f the Deputy Ministers o f Public Education.

There will be four consultant positions on this team: (i)   Procurement Specialist (PS), (ii)Financial
Management Specialist (FMS),          (iii)Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, and (iv)        Project
Coordinator (PC) The PS will be responsible for preparation o f a procurement plan and for ensuring
that all tendering processes are consistent with World Bank procedures and guidelines. The F M S will
be responsible for tracking all expenditures, and ensuring consistency with Bank guidelines. The ME
will be responsible for monitoring project implementation through a management information system.
The PC will coordinate the activities o f all five project components, ensuring that activities move
forward in a sequenced and structured fashion. The PC, FMS, ME and PS together will be responsible
for ensuring that the MPE implements the Project in accordance with the procedures set forth in the
Credit Agreement, the Project Appraisal Documents and the Operations Manual. In addition to the
four local consultants, Project Components 1-4 will be implemented by different Departments which
fall under the authority o f the MPE (Note, these arrangements are described in the other Component
summaries above):

     0     Component 1 will be implemented, at the MPE level, by the Department o f Development
           and Organization o f Education in General Schools, the Department o f School
          Endowment and the Department o f Organization;

     0     Component 2 will be implemented at the MPE level by the Department o f Human
          Resources and Teaching Staff Upgrading, with active involvement o f the Republican
          Centers o f Education (General as well as Pre-school) and other appropriate agencies and
          the oblast and rayon levels;

     0    Component 3 will be implementedby Main Department for Organization o f Activities of
          General Education Authorities.

     0    Component 4 will be implemented by the Administrative, Finance and Accounting
          Department o f the MPE.
It i s anticipated that to carry out the above component activities it will be necessary to provide, as
needed, additional consultant support to the targeted departments.

Results Management: To ensure effective implementation o f the Project, and that Project impacts are
measured in such a way as to increase lessons learned and sector knowledge, it is critical that all the
activities o f the project are carefully monitored and then evaluated.       An effective management


                                                 65

information system (MIS) should be developed which i s able to carry out this task. Two types o f
indicators are required: (i)process indicators; and (ii)   outcomehmpact indicators. Process indicators
will monitor the completion o f project activities, i.e. teaching materials distributedto schools, number
o f teachers trained, number o f schools boards participating in the implementation o f project activities,
etc. Outcome/impact indicators will measure learning improvement, teacher performance, efficiency
inresource allocation and other factors which demonstrate effectiveness o fthe project.

The Department for Standards Improvement and Implementation o f Advanced Educational
Technologies will have responsibility for maintaining the management information system that
monitors both sets o f indicators. The Component 5 consultant unit will work with the Standards
Departmentto ensure that they are regularly informed and updated on project progress.

Monitoringand Evaluation

The project will take advantage o f current MPE capabilities o f monitoring and evaluation, thus
concentrating responsibility inthis field inthe republican, oblast and rayon departments and units
for monitoring and evaluation. The school-based data collection will be combined with a
centralized and standardized (pilot) testing scheme that will be managed by the MPE Department
o f Standards and Monitoring (with the assistance o f international experts and a local consultant
firm for data collection and entry) in schools participating in the project as well as outside the
project in order to get comparative data. Such testing will provide comparable hard evidence on
student performance and will enable the MPE to determine project impact in a scientific way, as
it allows to compare performance data with similar schools in other oblasts and rayons not
participating in the project. Standardized assessment data will then complement the already
available classroom-based assessment data, and the MPE capacity in this regard will be
considerably strengthened.

In addition, the network o f monitoring and evaluation specialists at both the Oblast and Rayon
levels will receive training and develop uniform data collection techniques to deal with each o f
the project components. For instance, monitoring actual levels of use o f the new materials
delivered to schools i s crucial to determine their degree o f curriculum integration, thus making it
possible to talk about impact on student learning and student achievement. This information will
be complemented with beneficiary surveys at both the local and regional levels that will provide
precious information on project outputs and outcomes. One obvious example inthis regard has to
do with teachers' satisfaction and (perceived) improved job conditions after receiving the new
materials and equipment, as well as training.

Arrangements for M&E: The Department o f Standards and Monitoring at the MPE will be in
charge o f coordinating the monitoring and evaluation plan for the Project. The network o f M&E
specialists at Oblast and Rayon public education departments will be fully involved in the
process, from data collection to data analysis and reporting. During the first six months o f the
project effectiveness learning tests will be administered to a sample o f students; and surveys will
be administered to their parents; teachers; school board members.                   A brief school
characteristics/inventory survey will also be carried out.            These surveys will cover a
representative sample o f students and schools that are included in the project; as well as a sample
o f students and schools that are not included inthe project (for comparisonpurposes). Inorder to
allow comparisons over time, the survey instrument that aims to capture the functioning o f school
boards should cover (and expand on) the existing and planned surveys that are relevant: namely
the school-boards-survey that was implemented in2006 by the MPE and a supplementary survey
to take place inFall 2006 (to be commissioned by the World Bank).




                                                 66

To further strengthen current M&E capabilities, a local consulting firm and international
consultants will be hired to support, inform and implement the new (pilot) standardized testing
scheme and other elements of the M&E plan. International consultants will contribute to the
design o f student learning tests; student, parent, school-board and school characteristics surveys.
Training sessions on monitoring and evaluation instruments and procedures will need to be
carried out with the participation of rayon heads and, when applicable, monitoring specialists and
heads of vocational orientation centers. It will also be highly recommendable that school
principals of the participating schools attend those trainings.     The local consultant firm will
participate in the design of survey instruments, and be responsible for the fielding o f
tests/surveys, data entry, and provision o f raw data files to the MPE and to the World Bank on a
timely basis.

Follow-up data collection should be carried out regularly, with another major testing and survey
fielding activity to take place during the last year of the project. The follow-up survey(s) will
implement identical/comparable tests and questionnaires to enable the evaluation of the
effectiveness o f project interventions. A series of short-term visits by international consultants
are envisaged after the baseline data collection as well, to support the MPE, Oblast and Rayon
officials involved inmonitoring and evaluation; and to contribute to the final evaluationreport for
the Component.

The following considerations will guide this activity:

    1. The evaluation o f impact should cover a sufficient number o f schools in the project
        rayons as well as in comparator regions (sampling decisions will be made during the
        survey design stage).
    2. Outcome indicators at the preschool level will be difficult to measure- learning outcomes
        are not really possible to obtain and enrollment rates are already highand, intheory, only
        constrained by the number o f places available.
    3, The outcome indicators of interest for the general schools include
             a. School attendance
             b. Schoolcompletion, on-time graduation rates
             c. Drop out rates
             d. Learning outcomes
    4. The impact o fthe project on the above indicators will be measured talung into account, as
        much as possible, the (i)characteristics of the schools, teachers, school-boards and
        communities, (ii)   specific project interventions, (iii)characteristics of the students and
        parents, including a proxy welfare measure, and (iv) the ability o f the schools to obtain
        resources/participate inthe project.
    5. The sources o f data for the indicators listed inpoint 3 are:
             a. Student; parent; teacher; school-board-member; and school inventory surveys.
             b. Student testing: Two types of testing will probably be used to measure student
                learning outcomes. The first i s the existing testing that the MPE carries out
                regularly in all schools. The second is a pilot exercise aimed to develop a test
                that will be administered to a sample of students in all of the project schools and
                comparator schools (the administration and contents o f this latter test will be
                identical to ensure comparability across schools).

Evaluation: Activities

    1. The first step will be to decide on the project and non-projectkomparison schools that
        will be surveyed. It is expected that comparison rayons will be selected based on an


                                                 67

           analysis o f the School Passport data, household survey data and administrative data on
           the rayon and schools. It i s estimated that 50 comparator rayons might need to be
           selected to ensure a sample sufficient for the analysis given the variation ininterventions.

     2. The specific data collection activities are briefly outlinedbelow. The data collection will
           occur inmultiple points intime. The first i s before the project is implemented (before the
           intervention): a baseline.    The last will be at final year o f the project. A more limited
           mid-term evaluation is also envisaged.
                a. Baseline data:
                         i.Becausethe schoolpassportdataistwoyears old, thswillhavetobe
                             redone inthe project and comparisonrayons at the very beginning o f the
                             project.    Essentially what i s needed i s an inventory o f what
                             infrastructure, goods and equipment the schools have as well as the
                             resources they have received from the Government school improvement
                             project and other donors (as well as local donations). This information
                             will be part o f the Request manual to be filled out by all schools in the
                             project area:    the same data will be required for the schools in the
                             comparison rayons.       Additionally, it will be important to collect
                             information from the school director concerning the school's priority
                             needs.    Such needs should encompass all needs, not simply those
                             included in the project. Second information on the presence or absence
                             o f school boards or committees as well as a brief description o f its
                             activities. Basic characteristics o f the school director and teachers will
                             also be collected. The information that will be collected on teachers will
                             include: their demographic characteristics, educational background, work
                             experience, training received, participation in project training program,
                             use o f new techniques, as well as attitudes about teaching in general and
                             the project activities inparticular.
                         ii.Student learning:     Standardized tests o f learning achievement will be
                             conducted prior to any project intervention, both the existing test and the
                             new one that will be piloted inthese areas.
                       iii.Informationonstudentcharacteristicsandthoseoftheirhouseholds.
                        iv. All three o fthe above data sources willneedto be linked.

                b. Mid-term follow-up data collection.

                c. Final data collection, in a way that i s fully consistent with testing and survey
                    instruments developed for the baseline.

 PotentialDifficultiesinEvaluatingthe Impactofthe Project

There are several technical difficulties that will be faced by the evaluation o f this project. The
first i s that the project interventions are not exogenous to the schools themselves. Inother words,
the initial characteristics o f the schools and their staff will play a major role in determining the
actual intervention the school will receive. Teaching materials will be requested by the schools
based on their own assessment o f needs.             This confounds the analysis because unobserved
Characteristics o f the schools that may be correlated with the effectiveness o f the use o f resources
will determine the resources they obtain. (Components o f this project which will be globally
distributed-a     fixed package to all schools-will    not have this problem.)




                                                      68

One way to deal with this problem is to ensure that the sample o f schools being selected i s large
enough o take into account the variety o f interventions that may occur. For this reason it i s
advisable to use a large sub sample o f the project schools and it i s important to consider a
relatively large sample of comparison rayons. Having very clear criteria for review and approval
o f school requests will also help to lower the problem as these may (a) decrease the variation o f
project interventions and (b) limit the impact o f individual school's unobserved characteristics.
However, it is expected that there will still be variation based on the school's actual requests.
Also, detailed information on the other interventions that schools are receiving will need to be
collected.




                                                69

                                         Annex 5: Project Costs
                             UZBEKISTAN: BASIC EDUCATION


                              ProjectCost Summary by Component




                                                                                   US$'OOO
                                                                             Local  Foreign  Total
 1. Learning Materials and Resourcesfor General Secondary Schools            7,465     1,854 9,319
 2. Strengthening of In-ServiceTraining for Teachers and Principals in G:    1,727     1,719 3,446
 3. Support to School Boards                                                    152        6   157
 4. Education Finance Budgetingand Management                                  415      410    825
 5. Project Managementand Results Management                                    184     221    406
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                         10.425    3,729 14,153
 Physical Contingencies                                                        422      209    631
 Price Contingencies                                                           271        62   333
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                          11,161    3,957 15,118




                                                       70

                            Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                             UZBEKISTAN: BASICEDUCATION


The Project will be implementeddirectly by the MPE, specifically by the Department o f Development
and Organization o f Education in General Schools within the Ministry. It i s envisaged that, at a
minimum, four consultants will be located within the Department of School Endowment              - MPE's
procurement department - to assist with implementation, specifically, one financial management
consultant, one procurement consultant, one M&Econsultant, and one coordinator.

Component I:Provision of Learning Materials. The MPE will be responsible for the overall decision
mahngregarding this component, the definition o f procedures to be used in order to guide schools in
the preparation of their request and definition or priorities, the establishment o f the evaluation criteria
of school requests, and all the tasks related to procurement and distribution o f materials. Provision of
materials will be demand driven, i.e., basedupon developed criteria developed under the project, those
eligible schools will be provided with a list o f available materials and they - with the participation o f
the community and other stakeholders -will select what they consider to be the most essential items.

The main implementation agency for this component will be the MPE Department o f Development
and Organization o f Education in General Schools (Mr.Daniyarov, Head). The Department o f School
Endowment (Mr. Amanov, Head) and the Department o f Organization will also be involved in some
key implementation arrangements. It is envisaged that a number o f national consultants will be
contracted to support MPE Departments throughout implementation.

Rayon education authorities will be the local implementation agencies, responsible for the day-to-day
"interface" with schools. Rayons will assist schools with their proposals, will coordinate training
activities provided in component 2, and will take the lead in data-gathering for monitoring and
evaluation o f the component. Centers of vocational orientation and psychological counseling will also
play a role in disseminating good practice through the rayon school network and in ensuring the
relevance of data relatedto the impact of this component on student learning.
Component 2: Strengthening of In-Service Trainingfor Teachers and Principals in General Secondaiy
Schools and Pre-Schools. Training of teachers will be focused on schools and pre-schools within
rayon as the unit of intervention. It will be structured around teams o f teachers coming from different
schools within a rayon that will be learning together. The training model will rely very little on
individual isolated work or on the advice of external experts. The school teams participating in the
project will develop their professional competence through constant sharing of experience. Schools
participatinginthe training will establish school learningnetworks.
By working in teams teachers will be learning from each others and will be developing new
competencies and acquiring new skill through collaborative work. They will be encouraged to search
for teaching and learning methods that are more appropriate to the reality o f their schools and
students, thus making their work more effective. It is expected that the cooperation o f teachers at he
school level and among schools will result both in teachers' professional growth and improvement o f
learning conditions in schools.

The training of teachers will be carried out by a team o f rayon education methodologists who will be
working together under the guidance and with direct support and training o f experts from the Regional
Institutes and the Republican Centers (general education and pre-school). The Human Resources and
Teaching Staff Upgrade Department of MPE will have the main responsibility for monitoring and
evaluating this component. It i s anticipated that short term international technical assistance will be
needed for the design o f the training modules of the different parties involved in delivering training



                                                  71

(staff from the Republican Centers, Regional Institutes and methodologists) and preparation o f the
respective training materials.

Component 3: Support to Activation of School Boards. The MPE through the Main Department
for Organization o f Activities o f General Education Authorities will be the main agency
responsible for the implementation o f this component. Since both agencies do not have much
experience on this type of activities, at the beginning o f the project and until the Institute
develops sufficient capacity and expertise, they will need to receive technical assistance from an
organization experienced inschool community mobilization.

Component 4: Improvement in Education Financing, Budgeting, and Management. Inorder to involve
the main stakeholders in the implementation o f the expansion of per capita financing in the education
sector, a working group will be established that will include representation from the Ministries of
Public Education and Finance, the existing PEAKS working group, as well as Bukhara oblast, amongst
others.   The working group will, amongst other tasks, review the output from the international
consultancy providing technical assistance to the Ministry o f Public Education on expansion o f per
capita financing.

In the Ministry of Public Education, the Department o f Forecasting, Financial Management, and
Accounting has the main responsibility for overall coordination and implementation o f this
component.     Given the fact that per capita financing in education remains relatively new to the
Ministries o f Public Education and Finance themselves, the training under this component will be
contracted out to an appropriate local university, institute, or business school. This local entity may
find it necessary to team up with an international body in order to provide training o f an appropriate
quality, but with the stipulation that the collaboration will be used to foster improvement in the
capacity o f the local entity in the medium term. In addition, the training modules for per capita
financing, budgeting, management, and accounting will build on existing training modules under the
USAID PEAKS project.

Component 5: Project Management. As described above, the Project will be implemented directly by
the Ministry o f Public Education (MPE) including the involvement o f subordinate units such as
different republican centers as well as oblast and rayon education agencies. Consultant support will be
provided on a limited basis where there is a critical need. Component five will be coordinated by a
three-person consultant team to be situated in the Department of School Endowment. This existing
Department i s responsible for all procurement activities in the MPE. The consultant team will share
office space with the existing staff, and will work in parallel with them, sharing information on
technical matters, as well as supplies and computers and office related equipment that will be provided
under the project. However, the consultant team will report directly to one o f the Deputy Ministers o f
Public Education.

There will be three to five local consultant positions in this team: (i)  Procurement Specialist (PS),
(ii)Financial Management Specialist (FMS), and (iii)Project Coordinator (PC) and (iv) two
component specialist. The PS will be responsible for preparation o f a procurement plan and for
ensuring that all tendering processes are consistent with World Bank procedures and guidelines. The
FMS will be responsible for traclung all expenditures, and ensuring consistency with Bank guidelines.
The PC will coordinate the activities o f all five project components, ensuring that activities move
forward in a sequenced and structured fashion. The two component specialists will help coordinate
specific task for components one to four.

The PC, FMS, PS and component specialists together will be responsible for ensuring that the MPE
implements the Project in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Credit Agreement, the



                                                 72

Project Appraisal Documents and the Project Operations Manual. A Condition of Effectiveness will be
that MPE adopts the Revised POM satisfactory to the World Bank. Finally, working with the
Department for Standard's Improvement and Implementation of Advanced Education Technologies,
the Unitwill ensureproper monitoring andevaluation ofthe Project.

In addition to the four local consultants, Project Components 1-4 will be implemented by different
Departments which fall under the authority of the MPE (Note, these arrangements are described inthe
other Component summaries above).




                                               73

Oblasts,Rayons and Number of Schools and Pre-schools
            Participatinginthe project




                        74

                       Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                              UZBEKISTAN: BASICEDUCATION


1.       ExecutiveSummary

An assessment o f the financial management arrangements proposed and being implemented by
the Ministryof Public Education o f the Republic o f Uzbekistan (MPE) was undertakenduringthe
appraisal mission from October 17 to October 21 to determine if the financial management
arrangements are acceptable to the Bank. These financial management arrangements include
systems o f budgeting, accounting, financial reporting, auditing, and internal controls. Duringpre-
appraisal it was agreed that MPE will have direct responsibility for all implementation activities,
with the Finance and Accounting Department o f MPE(FAD) having overall responsibility for the
financial management aspects of the project. While this presents significant benefits in terms o f
capacity building within MPE it also presents significant risks as the MPE lacks experience with
implementation o f Bank-financed projects; and the initial assessment found the financial
management arrangements for the project and staffing to be inadequate and required additional
strengthening to satisfy Bank requirements. . The assessment was updated in December 2005 and
August 2006, during which it was determined that all elements o f the action plan had been
completed and that the financial management arrangements were satisfactory to the Bank. FAD
hired a local financial management consultant to design a computerized accounting system, using
the 1-C accounting software, which is already widely used in Central Asia, and will support
financial requirements o f both the World Bank and the Government. A project operational
manual which includes financial procedures has been prepared with the support o f a Bank-
financed consultant and reviewed by the Bank. In addition FAD will hire a local consultant,
financed under the Credit as a financial specialist under terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank
to support them for the duration o fthe project.

Conclusion: Overall the financial management arrangements for the proposed Basic Education
Project are now capable of satisfactorily recording all transactions and balances, supporting the
preparation o f regular and reliable financial statements, safeguarding project assets, and will be
subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank.            From a financial management
perspective, the proposed project i s considered high risk, but following mitigating measures the
residual risk i s reducedto substantial. A detailed financial management assessment questionnaire
is included in the project files. A summary of the consolidated risk assessment for the project i s
presented inthe Table below.




                                                 75

                SummaryTable: FinancialManagementAssessmentand Conclusions

 Financia1Management            Risk                 Risk Mitigation Measures.                    Residual
 Assessment                    Rating                                                              Risk
INHERENTRISK
1. CountryLevel: Weak           H      The risk that Bank funds will not be used as intendedis   H
  PFM institutions                    judged as manageablegiven anumber ofrisk mitigation
  (additionalinformationare            measuresoutlinedbelow. Incommonwith all donor
  includedincountryissues              projectsthese financial managementarrangementscan
  inthe nextsection), andthe           not give an absolute assurancethat Bank funds will be
  projectis being                      used for the purposesintended.
  implementedinan
  environmentofperceived
  high corruption.
2. ImplementingEntity           H      The projectdesignprovidesfor implementationthrough        H
                                       MPE, rather than standalonePIU. MPEhasno
                                       experience with projectmanagementand
                                       implementation;the key risk is that lack of coordination
                                       couldresult indelays and an overall lack of
                                       accountability.To mitigatethis risk MPE will recruit
                                       additionalconsultantsto support the project activities,
                                       including adedicatedproject coordinatorreporting to the
                                       DeputyMinister.
3. ProjectLevel:Project i s     H      Expectedinvolvementof local and international             S
  mediumsized, but alittle             consultantswill improveimplementationcapacityat
  complex with 5                      projectlevel, including aproject coordinatorto work
  componentsin phase 1.                closelywith MPE managementand staff.
  Projecthas beenredesigned
  as APL.
4. FundsFlow                    H     Fundsflow arrangementswill follow transactions based       M
                                      procedures, including a Special Account managedby
                                      MPE. Proceduresto ensure timely disbursement o f
                                      funds, particularlyto local level institutionsare included
                                      inthePOM.
5. Staffing                     H     Ingeneralstaffhas low capacityandhavebeen                  S
                                      supportedby consultantsduring preparation.Consultants
                                      support will be retainedduring implementation.
6. AccountingPoliciesand        H     ProjectOperationalManual (POM) has beenpreparedby S
  Procedures                          aconsultant documentingaccountingpolicies and
                                      procedures,reportingandaudit arrangements,
                                      expenditure authorizationand operationof bank
                                      accounts.
7. InternalAudit                NA    There is no internalaudit function, and none i s planned.  NA
8. ExternalAudit                H     Projectfinancial statementswill be auditedannuallyby a M
                                      private sector auditor acceptableto the Bank.
9. Reportingand Monitoring       S    Computerizedaccountingsystemwhich is able to               S
                                      preparereliablefinancial reportshas beendeveloped and
                                      reviewedby the Bank.
10.InformationSystems           H     MPE has installedsuitable software, capable of recording S
                                      transactionsandproducingfinancialreports.
Legend: H-High S - Substantial M-Moderate     L....LowN/A-Not applicable.




                                              76

2. ImplementationArrangements

MPE will have direct responsibility for all implementation activities. This method has the
advantage for allowing the ministry to build capacity through hands-on experience o f managing
the project. The main risk associated with not having a single dedicated unit responsible for
coordinating the project activities i s that the project could be delayed and have a general lack o f
cohesion. This risk will be mitigated through the creation o f the Steering Committee and the
support provided by a consultants working in the Departments implementing the various
components o f the Project.

3.       Strengths andWeaknesses
The MPEhas established an appropriate project accounting systems and documented inthe POM
appropriate procedures to be followed in the management o f project funds. All procurement and
payments and accounting will be done at FAD level rather than at the rayon or oblast level.
Progress during the implementation o f a financial management action plan showed a strong
commitment to building a system that will satisfy the Bank requirements throughout project
implementation.

MPE has no direct experience o f implementing World Bank-financed projects. However, they
have been receiving support from local consultants indeveloping the project components and the
POM. A consultant has also been appointed to develop a computerized accounting system which
will be used for the project. Further capacity buildingwill be required to implement the project;
and Finance and Accounting staff will require training and guidance during the initial phase of
project implementation. The full-time financial management consultant will not be hired until
project inception, but it i s expected that the consultants currently contracted for project
preparation will provide essential support in the interim including help in the development o f
project software and installation..

4.       CountryIssues andlinkageto the currentproject

A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Uzbekistanwas completed in2004.
The conclusion o f the CFAA i s that there i s a high risk to public funds due to: (1) process and
institutional breakdowns between policy setting and budgeting, and (2) fragmented budgetary
processes, including extensive extra-budgetary funds. In common with other countries in Central
Asia modem concepts o f internal and external auditing are yet to be fully understood. Systems o f
public accountability need to evolve and there i s a general lack of transparency at all levels of
government. The government i s slowly beginning to address these issues; major reforms to the
health and education sector are planned and weaknesses in the budgetary process are being
tackled through the development o f revisedbudget preparationprocedures and the introduction o f
a treasury system. The capacity of the Government to absorb and implement an ambitious series
o f public sector financial management reforms will be a challenging long term exercise requiring
training, computerization and basic guidelines to staff..

All current World Bank financed projects in Uzbekistan have been managed by stand alone
project implementing units (PIUs). Most PIUs use the cash basis o f accounting, which i s not in
accordance with IFRS, but i s allowedunder IPSAS and which in many cases i s sufficient for
proper project accounting. There are no public sector internal audit units functioning in
accordance with international norms, although the Bank i s currently providing support to develop
a framework public sector internal auditing through an IDF grant. Outside the international firms
most local audit firms lack either the technical capacity or the requisite experience to carry out
audits o f Bank financed projects. The Bank does not yet place any reliance on audits conducted


                                                   77

by the state auditor; the Chamber of Accounts. Project audits have been conducted by private
sector auditors that are eligible to audit Bank-financedprojects.

The C F A A noted that the availability o f skilled staff in PIUs has been a problem but that, in
general the fiduciary arrangements for Bank-financed projects have worked well in Uzbekistan.
The C F A A goes on to argue that moving towards a greater reliance on national institutions and
public financial management systems requires a phased approach based on demonstrable progress
towards strengthening these institutions and systems. The proposed approach to financial
management and procurement in the Basic Education Project supports this cautious approach
through the provision o f consultants to support MPE staff in the implementation o f the project
within the Ministry.

5.       Staffing of the AccountinglFinance Function

The development o f accounting systems is being handled by the Finance and Accounting
Department o f MPE (FAD). FAD has seven staff supporting the budgeting and accounting
function o f the Ministry, including some 40 subordinate budgetary institutions. The preparation
work was carried out with the support o f a consultant who, while funded by MPE, i s worhng
under terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank. Overall responsibility for implementation and
overall quality o f financial management within the project will rest with the Director o f FAD,
supported by the Chief Accountant. Once the Credit becomes effective, FAD will select and hire
a financial management consultant to support the Department during project implementation.
Workmg under the supervision o f FADmanagement s(he) will support the implementationo f day
-to day aspects of financial management and disbursement, including managingthe special
account, maintaining books o f accounts, reporting day-to-day transactions and preparing
accountingreports and financial statements, as well as monitoring financial flows to the project. It
i s envisaged that during the initial implementation o f the Project FAD staff will need considerable
training on project financial management and disbursement procedures, to equip them with skills
for effective project financial management.

6.       Accountingpolicies and procedures

MPE have developed a Project Operations Manual (POM) which includes the financial
procedures, key internal control mechanisms to be followedby the Ministryinthe application and
use o f funds. The manual reflects the structure as well as the flow o f funds to support project
activities. Accounts and records for the project will be maintained by the Ministry which will
operate and maintain a project-specific financial management system (FMS) capable of
generating Interim Unaudited Financial Statements (formerly Financial Monitoring Reports) in
accordance with formats agreed with the World Bank. Books o f accounts for the Project will be
maintained by the Ministrybased on generally accepted accounting principles. FAD will generate
and maintain accounting vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures on all activities
o f the project, and will document the accounting transaction information flows.. Funds will be
transferred from the Special Account to pay for eligible expenditures in accordance with
instructions contained in the Disbursement Letter. MPE will also maintain appropriate financial
records and reports in accordance with existing government financial regulations and project
specific procedures established in the Project Implementation Plan. These accounts which follow
generally accepted accounting practices will reflect the progress o f the project and identify its
resources, operations and expenditures. The project accounts will reflect all financial transactions
during the project period for the Credit by project component and by expenditure categories. In
accordance with the Uzbekistan Country Financing Parameters no counterpart financing i s
anticipatedfor the Project.


                                                  78

Additional accounting policies that will need to be applied on the project (besides standard
accountingpolicies used for Budget organizations) will include the following major assumptions:
  --  cash accounting as the basis for recording transactions;
      reporting should be done in U S dollars (reporting currency), except for the MOF that may
  -   require reports bothinU S D and UZS;
      consolidated IFRs should be prepared for all components, including all donors funds..

7.       Internalaudit andInternalControl

There is no internal audit department within the Ministry and none i s proposed inthe near future.
However, MPE are subject to periodic compliance audits by the Control and Revision Unit o f the
Ministryo f Finance (CRU). For the purposes of the Credit, no reliance will be placed upon the
audits performedby CRU.

The Financial Management Manual reflects the structure o f the MPE, FAD and administrative
arrangements, internal control procedures, including procedures for authorization of expenditures,
maintenance of records, safeguard o f assets (including cash), segregation o f duties to avoid
conflict o f interest, regular reconciliation o f bank account statements, bank signing mandate (to
include at least two signatories), regular reporting to ensure close monitoring o f project activities,
as well as the flow o f funds to support project activities. All procurements will follow Bank
procurement guidelines, and payments from the DesignatedSpecial Account will be for eligible
project expenditures only, duly confirmed as such by the project coordinator. Inparticular project
payments will not be made through the treasury system (no reliance on the treasury or country
system), and payment procedures will be separate from those normally followed by MPE for
regular budgetary expenditures.

To further strengthen the internal control framework and to provide additional assurance that the
project i s being implemented in an environment o f strong internal control system, that ensures
proper use o f project funds there will be an operational review towards the end o f the lstPhase o f
the project (within 12 - 18 months), and every two years duringthe 2"d Phase, to be carried out by
independent auditors and under TORs acceptable to Bank. The operational review will identify
gaps in the framework, assess controls that work and that do not work and make
recommendations to strengthen the internal control framework. The cost of the operational review
will be eligible for financing under the Credit.

8.       ExternalAudit

Annual audits for the project accounts will be carried out in accordance with the guidelines:
Financial Management Practices in World Bank-financed Investment Operations (November
2005). The guidelines require a single audit opinion on the project financial statements as a
whole, which will include the Special Account Statement and the Statement o f Expenditures used
as the basis o f withdrawing funds from the Credit Account. The project will adopt these
guidelines and submit a single audit opinion on the annual project financial statements within six
(6) months o f the fiscal year end. Terms o f reference (TORs) for the audit as well as a shortlist o f
audit firms to be invited to tender for the audit contract will be cleared with the Bank prior to the
end o fthe fiscal year.

As noted above, the World Bank does not intend to place reliance on the government external
auditing activities conducted by the Chamber o f Accounts. The external audit will be carried out



                                                   79

by independent auditors inaccordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and terms
o f reference acceptable to the Bank. The TORS will stipulate both the audit o f financial
transactions and an assessment o f the operation o f the financial management system (FMS),
including a review o f the internal control mechanisms.


The following chart identifies the audit reports that will be required to be submitted by the MPE
together with the due date for submission.

                       Audit Report                                             Due Date
      Entityfinancial statements                     N / A
      Project financial statements (PFS), including  Within six months o fthe end of eachfiscal year and also at
      SOEs and SpeciaYDesignatedAccount. The         the closing o f the project.
      PFSs include sources and uses o f funds by
      category, by components and by financing
      source; SOE statements, Statement o f
      Designated Account, notes to financial
      statements, and reconciliation statement.
      Operational audits on the internal controls,   Towards the end o f the 1'' Phase o f the project (12-18
      efficiency and effectiveness inthe use of      months), and every two years duringthe 2ndPhase.
      credit funds.

9.       ReportingandMonitoring

Project management-oriented Interim un-audited Financial Reports (formerly FMR's) will be
used for project monitoring and supervision. The project will prepare and submit Interim
Financial Reports (IFR) in a form and frequency agreed with the Bank (sample forms are
included in the POM). These IFRs are customized to reflect the specific characteristics o f the
project, while meeting the Bank's minimum information requirements for the financial
monitoring o f the Project. The IFRs will include, but not be limited to: (a) Sources and Uses o f
Funds, (b) Uses o f Funds by Project Activity, (c) Output Monitoring Reports, (including written
summary o f project progress, and explanations for significant budget variances); and (d)
Procurement Reports. MPE will submit quarterly IFRs for the Project to the Bank starting with
the first quarter ended in which disbursements will commence and quarterly thereafter, no later
than 45 days after the end o f the relevant quarter. The project accounting software will generate
IFRs, incorporating all components, categories and performance indicators which are acceptable
to the World Bank. Review o f actual results against budgets will be a key managerial tool for
monitoringperformance o f the project.

10.      Informationsystems

While FADhas automated a number o f accountingprocedures using spreadsheets and partial use
o f 1 C accounting software that was installed during project preparation period, at present the
Department does not have an integrated computerizeddouble entry bookkeeping system for entire
operations o f the Ministry.FAD has been using 1C accounting software to record transaction for
one sector o f the Ministry since the completion o f the installation in late 2005. It i s expected that
the Ministry will use 1C accounting software for all operations in the future. The Department,
software consultants and the Bank will work to ensure that the reporting system is able to produce
other reports required by the Government and eliminate duplicative reporting requirements
wherever practicable. The system i s fully operational pending the commencement o f the Project.




                                                   80

11.      Impactof procurement arrangements

Overall risk o f procurement under this project has been assessed as high, and this will have an
impact on financial management, and the financial management team will pay particular attention
to compliance with procurement guidelines. A local consultant will be located in the Office o f
School Endowment and will report to its Director. This consultant will receive additional training
in World Bank procedures and guidelines related to procurement, and will buildcapacity inthe
department along these lines. Initially it i s envisaged (see details inAnnex 8) that MPE will have
a short term international consultant to support MPE. MPE will prepare annual budgets in line
with the Procurement Plans, and these budgets will form the basis for spending.

12.      PlanningandBudgeting

Budgets, prepared in accordance with the IFR format (disbursement categories, components and
activities, financial sources, account codes, and by quarter), will establish physical targets to
ensure linkage between expenditures and physical progress, and proper comparison between
actual and budgeted performance. A detailed budget for the first full year o f project
implementation, broken down by quarter, will be prepared before the Credit becomes effective.
The document and information flowing between the Office o f School Endowment and FAD are
documented within the POM.

13.      Disbursementsarrangements

Credit funds will flow to the project via disbursements to the Designated Account (Special
Account) opened by the Recipient. Disbursements will follow the transaction-based method, i.e.
reimbursements with full documentation, Statements o f Expenditure (SOEs), direct payments and
special commitments. Withdrawals from the Credit Account will be requested in accordance with
the guidance provided in the Disbursement Letter. Withdrawal applications may be signed by the
Deputy Minister o f MPE with responsibility for Finance and Economics, and the Chief
Accountant (or their alternates). The financial management consultant will ensure completeness
and accuracy o f all withdrawal applications and will append herhis signature as part o f the
internal control procedures. SOEs will be used for contracts for goods less than US$lOO,OOO,
services for firms less then US$lOO,OOO and for individuals less than US$20,000, training, grants
and incremental operatingcosts.

                               Allocation of Credit Proceeds

                                                          Amount of
                                      Amount of the the Credit
                                    Credit Allocated Allocated          % ofExpenditures
 Category                                      $US'OOO   SDR            to be Financed
 Goods                                           14,172     9,542,400           100%
 Consultantsand Audits                              700       471.500           100%
 Training                                           113        76,000           100%
 OperationalCosts                                    15        10,100           100%
                                             15,000,000  10,100,000



14.      DesignatedAccount (DA): To facilitate project implementation, the Recipient will
open a DesignatedAccount (DA) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, and on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. IDA will make an initial deposit to the Designated Account


                                                   81

upon the request by the Ministry o f Finance (MOF) after Credit effectiveness. The ceiling o f the
Designated Account (DA) i s set at $1,000,000 and the statement o f expenditure limits are
specified in the disbursement letter which provides additional instructions for the withdrawal o f
credit proceeds. Advances to and replenishment o f the Designated Account from the Credit
accounts will be made against withdrawal applications, supported by appropriate documentation
or statements o f expenditure prepared by FAD, signed by the authorized officials o f MPE and
submitted to the Bank for approval. The project will all retain copies o f all supporting
documentation for project expenditure and will make these available to the Bank's supervision
missions and to the auditors.

15.     SupervisionPlan

Progress reports on the project implementation will be monitored in detail during supervision
missions. The IFRs will be reviewed on a regular basis by the FMS and the results or issues
followed up during supervision missions. Annual audited project financial statements and
management letters will be reviewed and issues identified will be followed up with MPE.

The FMsupervision missions will include: (i)review o f the project's financial management and
                                              a
disbursement arrangements (and may include a review o f a sample of SOEs and movements on
the Designated Accounts for each funding source) to ensure compliance with the Bank's
minimumrequirements; (ii) the project's quarterly interim financial reports as well as the
                             review
project's annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter and remedial
actions recommended in the auditor's Management Letters; and during the Bank's on-site
supervision missions, review the following key areas (a) project accounting and internal control
systems, including report o f the operational review; (b) budgeting and financial planning
arrangements; (c) disbursement management and financial flows, and (iii)any incidences o f
corrupt practices involving project resources   . The Bank will conduct risk-based financial
management supervisions, at appropriate intervals, involving at least three staff weeks inthe first
year.




                                              82

                              Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements
                       UZBEKISTAN:BASICEDUCATION PROJECT
                                            A. General

Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers'' dated M a y
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various items under different
expenditure categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed by the
Credit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-
qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the
Recipient and the Bank inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least
annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutional capacity.

Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project will include: teaching materials,
training equipment, laboratory equipment, etc. For procurement o f goods under the project, the
following methods will be used: ICB, NCB for publication o f training modules and materials,
Shopping and Direct Contracting. The Bank's SBD for all ICB contracts will be used.

Consultant Services:      Consultant's services will include Quality and Cost Based Selections
(QCBS), Fixed Budget Selection (FBS), Consultant Qualifications (CQ), Least Cost Selection
(LCS), and Individual Consultants (IC). QCBS selection over US$lOO,OOO will be advertised in
the UNDevelopment Business on line version and dg-Market (Gateway) and inlocal media (one
newspaper o f national circulation or the official gazette) from which a short list o f six firms will
be established. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO, short lists may be based
solely on national firms unless qualified international firms expressed interest. Contracts
estimated at less than US$lOO,OOO will be procured following the CQ method. Individual
consultants will be selected inaccordance with Part V o f the Consultants Guidelines

After the contract signature the Recipient shall publishin the UNDB online and in dgMarket the
name o f the contractor, price, duration, and summary scope o f the contract.

Training: Training for the MPE staff will be conducted in accordance with a biannual training
program that the MPE will submit to the Bank for its agreement before implementation.

OperatingCosts: The credit will finance the incremental operating costs o f the MPEto oversee
and manage the project.       Operating costs will be incurred according to an annual budget
satisfactory to the Bank and using the procedures to be described in the Project Operational
Manual.

B.       Assessmentofthe agency's capacityto implement procurement
The MPE will be responsible for the overall project management and coordination. With a view
to helping the MPE build its overall capacity to implement projects, the Bank has agreed that
MPErelevant departments will be responsible for the implementation o f the components relevant
to them. An assessment o f the procurement capacity o f the MPE, in general, and DSE, in
particular, has been conducted by Messrs. NaushadKhan and Fasliddin Rakhimov on October 10,
2005, and also during the appraisal mission on August 23-30, 2006. The DSE has the staffing
which appears to be sufficient for the current procurement o f approximately US$30 million under
the SCDP which is conducted in accordance with the standing government resolutions. The DSE


                                                 83

staff does not have enough capacity to add procurement under the proposed project to their
existing workload; nor do they have any experience inconducting international procurement. As
a result o f the findings and recommendations o f the CPAR dated February 2003 and this
assessment, the overall risk for procurement under the project i s determined to be "high risk". At
the completion o f Phase I, team will review the procurement capacity o f the MOE as well as
                            the
the functioning of procurement under phase Iwith a view to making adjustments as necessary.


The project may face the following potential risks during implementation:

                 The MPE/DSE staff lack capacity to undertake additional procurement work.
                 They also lack experience in international procurement. Furthermore, even if
                 one or two public officials are added to the staff o f the DSE for the additional
                procurement work, these officials, given the mismatch between their low
                 remuneration and the skills-mix required to conduct international procurement,
                 may not be sufficiently motivated to undertake and perform their new duties
                 efficiently in a timely and efficient manner. This arrangement will slow down
                 disbursements and project implementationand disbursements;

                 The public officials, who will be involved inproject procurement through tender
                 committees, and the public officials o f other education-related agencies at
                 different levels o f government, who will be involved in procurement, are not
                 familiar with procurement procedures, and may obstruct the procurement
                process;

                 The bureaucratic system creates opportunities for informal interference in
                procurement process by senior officials. Furthermore, the past and the current
                 experience shows that the formal involvement o f MFER in the procurement
                process has resulted, and may will result, in delays in procurement and project
                implementation;

                 Suppliers and consultants and contractors, and goods required for the project,
                may not be available or interested in participating in competition for goods and
                 services required for under the project, and goods and services may not be
                 available inthe country, leadingto higher prices.

Based on the analysis made, the following actions are recommended to mitigate the above-
mentioned risks.

        Inorder to ensure that the overall capacity ofthe DSEto conduct procurementis builtup
        at the same time as procurement under the project i s conducted ina timely, economic and
        efficient manner, one full-time local and one qualified and experienced international
        consultant for short-duration visits according to a pre-agreed work schedule, will be
        added to the current DSE team. One staff from DSE will be appointed as procurement
        coordinator who will receive on-the-job training from the international consultant.

        The timing o f the selection and deployment (short-duration visits to Uzbekistan) o f the
        international consultant will be determined carefully to optimize the use o f hisher
        services. The international consultant will not only support the local consultant in all
        aspects o f the procurement process but he/she will also be made responsible to provide
        on-the-job training to the local consultant, the DSE, and the DSE procurement



                                                84

         coordinator so that by the time the international consultant completes his assignment,
         which should not last more than ayear, the DSE team is fully prepared to conduct all
         procurement itself;


    0    The IDA will review and comment on the qualifications and experiences o f tender
         committee members selected by the MPE to ensure that only the person with appropriate
         qualifications are selected with no conflict o f interest. The DSE procurement staff and all
         potential members o f tender committees will attend a two-day project procurement
         launch workshop that will be organized by the Bank staff immediately after the credit
         agreement i s signed. Furthermore, the Bank team will help the project coordinator
         identify suitable training courses for the DSE existing team, the procurement coordinator
         and the local consultant;


    0    A simple but detailed Revised Operational Manual will be prepared. The manual will
         include procurement methods to be used in the project along with their step by step
         explanation as well as the standard and sample documents to be used for each method;


    0    The Bank staff will organize in September/October 2006 a short procurement seminar for
         the project procurement staff and for the concerned high officials to improve their
         understanding o fthe importance o fprocurementprocedures.

         The DSE team will work closely with the staff o f the MFER to foresee and reduce any
         potential delays inthe procurement process that may be caused by the MFER;


    0    The DSE team will establish (two months after effectiveness) and maintain a database o f
         suppliers o f the required goods, and consultants (firms and individuals, as well as an
         inventory o f the available goods in the country). It will also prepare a database o f
         historical prices so as to be able to prepare more precise and up-to-date contract estimates
         to use meaningfully use them as reference prices; and


    0    The Bank staff will review the efficiency o f procurement under the project and the
         improvement in the procurement capacity o f the DSE team after one year o f the credit
         effectiveness, and will make recommendations for hrther improvements as necessary.

C.ProcurementPlan

The Recipient, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the Recipient
and the Bank Project Team. The Procurement Plan will be available inthe project's database and
inthe Bank's external website. Itwill be also updatedannually or as requiredto reflect the actual
project implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity.

D.FrequencyofProcurement Supervision

Inaddition to the procurement priorreview to be carried out bythe Bank staffon a regular basis,
the capacity assessment report o f the implementing agency has recommended supervision
missions to visit the field every six months to carry out ex-post review o f procurement under the
project.




                                                   85

      .
E.Detailsofthe ProcurementArrangements InvolvingInternationalCompetition

1. Goods andNon-ConsultingServices

      (a) List o f contract packages to be procured following procurementprocedures:




      (b) All ICB contract for goods, NCB contracts for training modules and materials, all
      direct contractingwould be subject to prior reviewby the Bank.

2. Consulting Services

      (a) List o f consulting assignments.


        1        12                          3          4              5
                   Description             of Selection Review         Expected
                   Assignment                Method     by Bank        Start
                                                        (Prior / Post) Date
                  InternationalProcurement    IND        Prior review   December, 2006
                   S ecialist.
                  Teacher training to support    IND    Prior review   January, 2007
                  MPE, Republican Institute,
                 ITrackingandand Monitoring
                  System       Logistics.
        3        ITraining  on finance       CQ         Prior review   January, 2007
                  budgeting and
                  Management.
        4         International consultant,  rND        Prior review   December, 2006
                  Monitoring and Evaluation                            7
                  o f student learning.
        5         International Consultants  rND        Prior review   January, 2007
                  evaluation per-capita
                  funding and tracking of
                  expenditures (2 positions).




                                                 86

*  The report on the qualifications and experience o f all evaluated candidates, the terms o f
reference and the terms o f employment o f the consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the
Association.
(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above $100,000 per contract and all single source
selection o f consultants (firms) will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists of consultants for services
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national
consultants inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

Prior Review Thresholds: The project procurement plan will indicate which contracts will be
subject to prior or ex-post review. The following contracts will be subject to prior review:

        a.     All contracts awarded through ICB (estimated to cost more than US$lOO,OOO)
        b.     All NCB contracts for training modules andmaterials;
        c.     All TORSfor consulting services, irrespective o fthe contract value;
        d.     Contracts with consulting firms (XJS$lOO,OOO) and contracts with individual
               consultants estimated to cost US$20,000 or more each; and
        e.     Single source or direct contractingi s also subject tojustification.

The remaining contracts will be subject to ex-post review. One in five contracts will be
post reviewed. The above thresholds will be adjusted as the project implementation
progresses and the DSEhas acquired higher procurement capacity.




                                                   87

                          Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
                              UZBEKISTAN: BASICEDUCATION


Economic Analysis: Rationalefor Public Intervention

The economics literature recognizes two grounds for the use o f public resources: market failure
and equity. Inthe education sector, the main causes o f market failures are externalities, i.e. the
notionthat reliance on individuals to pay the full cost o f education may result inthe provision and
demand o f education being below socially optimal levels. Inthe present context, where the focus
i s on basic education that i s overwhelmingly public provided and with near universal coverage,
market failure does not constitute important ground for public intervention. Therefore, the
primary rationale for using Project funds to increase public funding o f basic education in
Uzbelustan rests on equity grounds. The Ministry o f Public Education (MPE) has applied three
targeting criteria in determining which rayons are to benefit from Project interventions: 1) the
share o frural and remote schools inthe rayon; 2) relatively poorer rayons within an oblast; and 3)
those rayons that are considered "waterless and deserted areas" under Resolution N2215 o f the
Cabinet o f Ministers dated August 9, 1991. The specific attributes o f the basic education sub-
sector in Uzbekistan are such that the inequities do not lie predominantly in enrolment or
attendance rates (which are near universal).      Instead, they manifest themselves in the school
infrastructure as well as availability o f learning and teaching inputs, and they are apparent
between urban and rural and remote areas. Addressing these types o f inequities i s a worthy use o f
public funds since school resources have an impact on learning outcomes for basic education
students.

There i s evidence to support the above statement. The 2000 Programme for International Student
Assessment (PISA) assessed the learning achievement o f 15-year-olds in the three educational
domains o f reading, mathematics, and science in OECD countries (including the Czech Republic,
Hungary, and Poland in Eastern Europe) as well as several non-OECD countries (including
Albania, Bulgaria, Latvia, FYRMacedonia, and the RussianFederationinEastern Europe and the
Former Soviet Union). Inthe publication "School Factors Related to Quality and Equity: Results
from PISA 2000" (OECD 2005), several sets o f factors posited to influence the performance o f
students at different schools are analyzed:

        student characteristics, e.g. student socioeconomic and immigration status;
        school context, e.g. school type and location;
     0  school climate, e.g. disciplinary climate and teacher support;
        school policies, e.g. instructional time and policy on communication o f performance
        information to parents; and
        school resources, e.g. index o f the quality o f a school's physical infrastructure, index o f
        the quality o f a school's educational resources, index o f teacher shortage, professional
        development, etc.

In the context of the Uzbek School Education Development Program (SEDP) in general and
Project interventions in particular, several o f the above sets o f factors are relevant, most
obviously school resources, but also school context (given the Project's focus on rural and remote
areas), and student characteristics (given the higher rates o f poverty inrural areas documented in
the 2003 Living Standards Assessment (World Bank 2003)).




                                                  88

The findings are that the above five sets o f factors explain together 75 percent o f the variance
between schools in OECD countries, with 50 percent of variance explained by student
characteristics alone, 18 percent by school context, and 6 percent by school climate, policies, and
resources. This last share i s higher for several East European and Former Soviet Unioncountries,
i.e. FYR Macedonia, Poland, and the Russian Federation, where 10 percent or more of between-
school variance in student performance i s explained by school climate, policies, and resources.
From the point of view of Project interventions, perhaps the most relevant finding i s that on
average inOECD countries, school resources, school context, and student characteristics together
explain 69 percent of the differences between schools instudentperformance. The corresponding
shares for individual Eastern European and Former Soviet Union countries are 86 percent for the
Czech Republic, 82 percent for Albania, 81 percent for Hungary, 78 percent for Bulgaria, 74
percent for FYR Macedonia, 68 percent for Poland, 58 percent for Latvia, and 49 percent for the
Russian Federation, averaging at 72 percent slightly above the OECD average.

Inequities in Basic Education in Uzbekistan

Having established the importance o f addressing inequities in school infrastructure and learning
and teaching materials for improving student learning, it remains necessary to examine the extent
and nature o f these inequities in Uzbelustan. To this end, data from the first wave o f the
UzbelustanRegional Panel Survey, fielded in2004, were analyzed. The survey was conducted in
Kashkadarya oblast in Nishanskiy rayon and other rayons; in Andijan oblast in Markhamatskiy
rayon and other rayons; and in Tashkent City. The Regional Panel Survey included both a
household survey (3,000 households) as well as a community survey (190 communities, or
technically speaking, primary sampling units). The household survey data include data on
enrollment and attendance o f those aged 7 years and above, while the community survey data
include information on the distance o f the community from the rayon and oblast center, as well as
information on the characteristics of schools in general in that community. Given that this i s a
regional survey, findings are not nationally representative but do nonetheless provide valuable
insightsthat may very well apply on the national level.

Table 9.1 provides data on enrolment and attendancerates of those 7-15 years old, by geographic
location o f their community o f residence. Overall, enrolment and attendance rates are near
universal, as mentioned above, at 98.1 and 98.0 percent respectively. At 98.7 percent enrolment
and 98.5 percent attendance, the highest rates are in urban areas, followed very closely by rural
communities that are close to both the rayon and oblast center. There i s a roughly 1 percentage
point drop in both enrolment and attendance rates when communities are remote from either the
oblast or rayon center. Finally, there i s a further roughly 1 percentage point drop in both
enrolment and attendance rates for communities that are remote from both the rayon and oblast
center. Thus, although enrolment and attendance rates do vary by the community's geographic
location, for all types of communities the rates are above 96 percent, and the gap between the
communities with the highest and those with the lowest rates is only 2-3 percentage points.
These findings therefore arguably do not point to important inequities in basic education
enrolment or attendanceby geographic location inUzbekistan.




                                                  89

Table 9.1: Enrolment and attendance rates of 7-15-year-olds, by geographiclocationof
community, 2004


                            Both           Urban       Rurala
                            urban                                                                         Remote
                            and rural                  Close to           Remote         Remote           from rayon
                                                       rayon and          from oblast    from rayon       and oblast
                                                       oblast center      center         center           center

 Number of
 observations                    2,959       1,070                  611            907            927                556

                          I                          1
 Enrolment rate (%)                                                98.4            97.1           97.0               96.1

  Attendance rate
  ("/I                            98.0         98.5                 98.4           97.1            97.0              96.1
                                          ~




                          I              I           I
  For rural locations, data were available on the distance to the rayon a Ioblast center.
The median distance to the rayon center was 12 kmand to the oblast center 37 km.
A community was considered remote from either the rayon or oblast center ifthe distance to it exceeded the respective
median distance.
  The sum o f the rural categories exceeds the total number of rural observations (1,889) since the categories "remote
from oblast center", "remote from rayon center", and "remote from oblast and rayon center" are not mutually
exclusive.

The picture that emerges when analyzing the attributes o f schools in different types o f
communities i s very different from an equity point o f view. Table 9.2 provides data collected
from school officials in the community on aspects such as whether schools have sufficient
numbers o f teachers, rooms, desks, boards, manuals, and heating equipment, and whether those
physical materials available are in good condition. It i s first important to note that overall shares
o f schools with sufficient numbers o f inputs, or inputs in good condition, leave much to be
desired. Thus, for both urban and rural communities, only 83 percent o f schools have sufficient
numbers o f teachers, and 79 percent sufficient numbers o f boards. The next range i s for rooms
and desks, where 72 and 66 percent respectively o f schools overall have sufficient numbers.
Finally, the greatest need lies in manuals and heating equipment, where only 57 and 56 percent
respectively o f schools overall have sufficient numbers. Interms o f overall quality o f schools,
only 40 percent o f schools are deemed in good or excellent condition, while 18 percent have
experienced deterioration intheir condition over the last five years.

Beyond this sobering bigpicture, schools inurban communities fare better inalmost every aspect,
followed by schools in rural communities that are close to the rayon and oblast center. Clear
disparities are apparent between urban schools and rural remote schools, whether these are remote
from the oblast or rayon center or both. Indeed, it i s o f interest to note that distance from the
oblast center inmany instances has more o f an impact on school attributes than distance from the
rayon center. Across the board, however, schools inrural communities that are remote from both
the rayon and oblast center fare worst, inmany instances exhibiting as little as halfthe share that
i s observed inurban schools, e.g. only 38 percent o f schools in these communities have sufficient
numbers o frooms or desks, as compared to roughly 80 percent o f urban schools.




                                                            90

 :able 9.2: Schools' attribu :s, by geographic location of community, 2004
                                                                   Geographic location of community
                                      Both         Urban                                        R u 11a
                                     urban                                                                              Remote
 (percentage share o f                 and                          Close to          Remote           Remote         from rayon
 schools, unless otherwise            rural                        rayon and        from oblast      from rayon        and oblast
 specified)                                                      oblast center         center           center          center


 Number o f observations                   190            96                 33                 43              42             24

 Sufficient number o f
 teachers                                 83.2          84.4               84.8               79.1            73.8            66.7

 Sufficient number o frooms               72.1          84.4               69.7               44.2            54.8            37.5
 Roomsingood condition                    66.8          79.2               54.5               46.5            50.0            33.3

 Sufficient number o f desks              66.3          77.1               60.6               46.5            50.0            37.5
 Desks ingood condition                   61.1          67.7               60.6               48.8            42.9            33.3

 Sufficient number o fboards              78.9          83.3               87.9               62.8            66.7            58.3
 Boards ingood condition                  75.8          81.3               84.8               55.8            61.9            50.0

 Sufficient number o f
 manuals                                  57.4          64.6               54.5               37.2            52.4            37.5
 Manuals ingood condition                 68.4          76.0               66.7               51.2            61.9            54.2

 Sufficient number o f
 heating equipment                        55.8          70.8               45.5               32.6            42.9            37.5
 Heating equipment ingood
 condition                                56.8          74.0               42.4               32.6            42.9            37.5

 Sufficient number o f other
 equipment                                50.0          62.5               39.4               30.2            35.7            25.0
 Other equipment ingood
 condition                                58.9          69.8               45.5               46.5            47.6            41.7


 Schools' quality excellent or
 good                                    40.4           47.9               29.0               27.9            35.7            25.0
 Schools' condition
 deteriorated inlast 5 years              17.6          15.6                6.5               34.9            28.6            45.8

  For rural locations,data were a\ lable on the istanceto the rayon andoblas enter.
The median distanceto the rayon center was 12 kmand to the obiast center 37 km.
A community was considered remote from eitherthe rayon or oblast center if the distance to it exceededthe respective
median distance.
  The sum of the rural categories exceeds the total number of rural observations (94) since the categories "remote from
oblast center", "remote from rayon center", and "remote from oblast andrayon center" are not mutually exclusive.
  Overall quality of schools was specified as either "excellent", "good", "fairly good", or "poor".
  The condition of schools was specified as either having improved, deteriorated, or remained unchanged during the
last 5 years.




                                                            91

Financial Analysis: Public Expenditures under the 2004-2009 School Education Development
Program

The presidential decree "On 2004-2009 State Nation-wide School Education Development
Program" dated May 21, 2004 established an extra-budgetary School Education Fund in order to
ensure funds accumulation and timely financing o f school renovation works, as well as providing
schools with modern instructional laboratory equipment, computers, desks, and school furniture.
Thereupon, Resolution No. 263 of the Cabinet of Ministers o f the Republic o f Uzbekistan dated
June 7,2004 states that the major sources for the Fundshall be:

    a) Budgetary allocations envisaged inthe budgetas a separateentry;
    b) Funds from local budgets mobilized through collection of taxes and levies beyond
        forecasted values;
    c) Grants and credits allocated by international financial organizations and institutions;
    d) Income generatedthrough investingtemporarily idle Fundresources;
    e)  Other proceeds that are not prohibitedby the law.

The intervention of the Office of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers to secure off-budget
funding for an important policy intervention in the education sector in this somewhat ad hoc
manner i s customary inUzbekistan for the financing o f sectoral policy change (European Union
2005).    An additional regulation on the above-mentioned budgetary allocations (item (a))
stipulates the introduction, as o f January 1, 2005, for all enterprises and organizations, including
those enjoying special taxation procedures, compulsory deductions for the development o f school
education at the rate of 1percent of a specified sum (see Table 9.3).

For 2005, available data indicate the following breakdown by source o f revenue for the School
Education Fund: 84.4 percent from the additional 1 percent tax; 12.4 percent from funds
generated by local government; and 2.4 percent funds from sponsor organizations and other off-
budget proceedings. In other words, the bulk o f revenues are derived from the 1 percent tax,
which is levied on a very broad range of enterprises and organizations, and which has been
declared on the same footing as national taxes and duties, with the stipulation that it remains in
effect solely for the period o f implementation o f the SEDP, i.e. not beyond 2009. Given the
breadthof enterprises and organizations involved, and the fact that the additional 1percent levy i s
for a limited time period, important behavioral change on the part of payers is unlikely.
Therefore, projections on the revenue generated for the School Education Fund can arguably be
made with some confidence. The Government of Uzbekistan has made such projections and
Table 9.4 provides a breakdown o f annual expenditures out o f the School Education Fund (in
millions o f constant 2005 soums). These expenditures assume availability o f donor funding to
cover the financing gap for years 2006-2009. As Table 9.4 shows, annual expenditures for SEDP
increase over the period 2005-2009, albeit at a declining rate, since they double between 2005
and 2006 but grow at a rate o f roughly 40, 20, and 10 percent annually thereafter. The total
expenditure for SEDP over 2005-2009 amounts to US$ 1.2billion (assuming a constant exchange
rate over the period).




                                                 92

  Table 9.3: Objects of imposition of compulsory deductions for the development of school
  education




                      mes based on risk, as well as from




                                                              deducting purchase value of heat energy, water
                                                              and natural gas as regards heat, water and gas
                                                              enterprises.
Enterprises o f other branches of economy                     Sales volume of commodities deducting VAT
                                                              and excise tax


  It is further possible to compare the percentage breakdown o f annual expenditures over the
  lifetime o f SEDP.         Table 9.5 provides this percentage breakdown o f projected annual
  expenditures, demonstrating that for all years, roughly seven-tenths of expenditures are for
  construction and rehabilitation works, with the remaining three-tenths for furniture and
  equipment.       The largest single category o f expenditure is capital reconstruction, which also
  increases its share over the years.         By contrast, the share o f new construction expenditures
  declines progressively, while other categories remain roughly constant. Expenditures on learning
  and lab equipment capture the largest share o f expenditures under furniture and equipment.

  There i s clear maintenance costs associated with SEDP that the Ministry o f Finance i s not takmg
  into account. According to the School Education Fund's manager, since the capital investment
  programs under SEDP are mostly school renovation activities, they result in minimal
  maintenance costs (European Union 2005). However, it i s also true that the construction of close
  to 300 new buildings i s foreseen over the lifetime o f SEDP (as calculated from Table 9.5)
  presumably entailing sizeable repercussions for the current budget o f the education sector, and
  these are presently not being taken into account. This fact i s further complicated by the manner
  in which SEDP is being financed, i.e. through the off-budget School Education Fund, while
   SEDP's implications for the recurrent budget will needto be integratedinto the regular
  Government's budget.




                                                        93

x
0


0
e
N




-



m
c
c
N




-



oc
c
0
N
      w
      d m
        w;c
        m o o *
              P




-




0
t-
0
N




-



      -
\o
0
N
      w N o d
        w m d
        m m r r



-




m
0
0
N     m
      m d w h
        w m h
        N d r C




-

Table 9.5: Projected School Education Fundexpenditures in support of the School
 Sducation DeGelopr ent Progr: n, 2005-2C 9 (percer age share)
                          2005        2006        2007         2008        2009      2005-2009
 TOTAL                       100          100         100           100       100             100
 Construction&
 rehabilitationworks         71.3        71.O        69.2          69.1       69.3           69.6
 New construction            16.0        14.4        11.2          10.6        9.9           11.6
 Capital reconstruction      30.9        35.6        36.2          36.6       37.9           36.3
 Capital repair              19.9        16.1        17.5          17.5       17.2           17.4
 Current reDair               4.5          5.0         4.2           4.4       4.2            4.4
 Strengthening
 material& technical
 baseof schools              28.7        29.0        30.8          30.9       30.7           30.4
 Furniture                    8.3          7.6         8.5           8.5       8.5            8.3
 Learning and lab
 equipment                   12.1        14.2        15.5          15.7       15.3           15.0
 Computer equipment           5.8          4.4         4.5           4.4       4.5            4.6
 Sport inventory and
 equipment                    2.5          2.7         2.4           2.3       2.4            2.4

Interms o f maintenance costs and implications for the recurrent budget of the education sector
resulting fi-om Project interventions, these are not likely to be substantial. The bulk of Project
funds are designated to the provision o f learning materials and other resources, which are not
estimated to result insizeable maintenance expenditures. The Project component on strengthening
in-service training for teachers and principals, in turn, is not introducing in-service training per se
into the education sector, but rather modifying the existing approach and methodology. The
Project component supporting activation o f the school boards does introduce training, technical
assistance, and grants into the system that are not present to date. However, these activities do
not extend beyond the lifetime o f the Project since they are in support o f the establishment o f the
school boards and not their day-to-day running. Finally, the Project component on capacity-
buildingin education finance, budgeting, and management is responding to an immediate need
for training on a new system o f education finance. This need will be either fully addressed within
the lifetime o f the Project, or any remaining capacity-building can be integrated into existing
training provided by the Ministryo f Finance to staff o f the Ministry o f Public Education.

It remains to consider how SEDP expenditures fit into overall public expenditures on education,
and how these inturn feature intotal public expenditures and GDP. Projections for overall public
expenditures on education, shown in Table 9.6, demonstrate the importance o f the SEDP for the
education sector inUzbekistan. Thus, SEDP expenditures constitute 10 percent o f total education
expenditures in the country in 2005, rising progressively to 24 percent o f total expenditures by
2009. Since projections are only available until2009, the final year o f SEDP, this leaves open the
question o f whether the Government o f Uzbekistan expects public education expenditures to
suddenly drop by 20 percent or more in2010.




                                                  95

Table9.6: Publicexpenditureson education, 1994-2009
             If currentso1 ns, unlessot: :mise stated)
              Government    National       School            Consolidated       SchoolEducation
              expenditure   Programfor     Education         government         DevelopmentProgram
              on education, Personnel      Development       expenditureon      expenditures,as
              including     Training       Program           education,         percentageshare of
             foreign        expenditures   expenditures      includingforeign   consolidated government
              sources                                        sources            expenditures(incl. foreign
                                                                                sources)
                    1             2               3                  4                      5
                                                                   1+2+3                   314
 Actual
    1994          5,354                                            5,354
    1995         21,482                                           21,482
    1996         42,871                                           42,871
    1997         71,079                                           71,079
    1998         104,232                                          104,232
    1999        204,3 14                                          204,314
    2000        316,953                                           316,953
    2001        442,600                                           442,600
    2002        694,060                                           694,060
    2003        618,507       195,934                             814,441
    2004        752,328    I  258.381                            1.010.709
 Projected
    2005        986,460       271,827           146,007          1,404,294                 10.4
    2006        1,237,714     288,286           317,697          1,843,697                 17.2
    2007        1,444,765     316,190           465,151          2,226,106                20.9
    2008        1,666,803     313,991           601,741          2,582,535                23.3
    2009        1,860,077     352,290           707,867          2.920.234                24.2

While a drop o f 20 percent inpublic education expenditures seems rather sharp, it i s nonetheless
true that public education expenditures in Uzbehstan have been and are projected to remain
remarkably highwhen considered either as a share o f total public expenditures or GDP. As Table
9.7 shows, 2005 public education expenditures constitute fully 27.7 percent o f total public
expenditures inthe country, and 8.9 percent o f GDP, and are projected to rise by 2009 to 31.7 and
10.5 percent, respectively. By contrast, the 2001 OECD average shares of public education
expenditures in total public expenditures was 12.7 percent, and in GDP, 5.3 percent (OECD
2004). In other words, the shares in Uzbehstan are on the order o f twice the magnitude of the
OECD average shares. Even compared to a country like the Russian Federation (with a 2001
share of education in total expenditures o f 11.5 percent and 3.0 percent in GDP) the shares in
Uzbekistan remain remarkably high. Seen in this light, a drop o f 20 percent inpublic education
expenditures in 2010 may very well be warranted, but assuming that it i s done deliberately as a
result o f policymahng and allowing for reallocation within the education sub-sectors, for
example.




                                                96

Table 9.7: Public education expenditures in relationto total public expenditures and GDP,
994-2009 I                                       otherwiseindic;
            Consolidated      Total consolidated GDP            Consolidated        Consolidated
            government        government                        government          government
            expenditure on    expenditure                       expenditure on      expenditureon
            education, net of                                   education,net of    education, net of
            foreign sources                                     foreign sources, as foreign sources, as
                                                                percentageof        percentageof
                                                                total consolidated  GDP
                                                                government
                                                                expenditure

                    1                 2                3                4                   5
                                                                        112                 1I3
Actual
  1994            5,354            21,620           64,878             24.8                 8.3
  1995           21,482           113,722           302,787            18.9                 7.1
  1996           42,871           202,558           559,072            21.2                7.7
  1997           71,079           317,352           976,830            22.4                 7.3
  1998           104,166          472,324          1,416,158           22.1                 7.4
  1999           204,290          655,888          2,128,660           31.1                9.6
  2000           307,494          926,810          3,255,567           33.2                9.4
  2001           414,564         1,297,298         4,925,270           32.0                 8.4
  2002           661,951         1,935,120         7,469,347           34.2                 8.9
  2003           798,525         3,182,132         9,664,100           25.1                 8.3
  2004           946,459         3,725,802         12,189,500          25.4                7.8
Projected
  2005         1,350,582         4,884,115         15,130,000          27.7                 8.9
  2006         1,769,897         5,996,697         18,163,000          29.5                9.7
  2007         2,144,976         6,949,869         21,050,000          30.9                10.2
  2008         2,528,335         7,993,175         24,210,000          31.6               10.4
  2009         2,912,634         9,192,950         27,843,921          31.7               10.5




                                               97

References

Ameels, Jean Charles. 2005. "Advice on Fiscal Policy Reform 2004: Uzbelustan." European
Union.

OECD. 2004. "Education at a Glance: OECD Indicators 2004." Paris: OECD.

OECD. 2005. "School FactorsRelatedto Quality andEquity: Results from PISA 2000." Paris:
OECD.

World Bank. 2003. UzbekistanLiving StandardsAssessment: Policies to Improve Living
Standards (in2 volumes). HumanDevelopmentSector Unit,Europe and CentralAsia Region.




                                           98

                         Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                      UZBEKISTAN: BASIC EDUCATION


The environmental rating category i s "C". The project does not include any civil works.




                                            99

                        Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision


                            UZBEKISTAN: BASICEDUCATION



                                         Planned                   Actual
PCNreview                                03/04/2005                03/04/2005
InitialPID to PIC                        03/10/2005                03/10/2005
InitialISDS to PIC                       03/10/2005                03/10/2005
Appraisal                                10/10/2005                10/10/2005
Negotiations                             0911412006
BoardlRVP approval                       10/24/2005
Planned date of effectiveness            12/15/2006
Planned date of mid-termreview           10/15/2007
Planned closing date                     0613012008

Keyinstitutions responsible for preparation of the project:

- Ministryof Public and Education(MPE), Uzbekistan

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                             Title                             Unit
Ernest0Cuadra                    LeadEducation Specialist          ECSHD
MichaelMertaugh                  LeadEducation Specialist          ECSHD
Ross Pavis                       Operation Officer                 ECSHD
Dilnara Isamiddinova             Country Officer                   TASWB
Saodat Bazarova                  Operations Analyst                DWWB
Dina Abu N.Abu-Ghaida            Senior Economist                  ECSHD
Flora Salikhova                  OperationOfficer                  ECSHD
Gulnora Kamilova                 Team Assistant                    ECCUZ
Naushad Khan                     Lead Procurement Specialist       ECSPS
Gabriel Francis                  Program Assistant                 ECSHD
Nikolai Soubbotin                Sr. Councel                       LEGOP
Dilek Barlas                     Sr. Councel                       LEGOP
HannahM.Koilpillai               Finance Officer                   LOAG1
Andrina Ambrose-Gardiner         Finance Officer                   LOAG1
Juan Manuel Moreno               Sr. EducationSpecialist          HDNED
Norpulat Daniyarov               Financial Management Specialist   ECSPS
Nodira Khusanova                 Consultant
Khamdam Tadjiev                  Consultant

Bank funds expended to date onproject preparation:
     1. Bank resources: US$442,360.61
    2. otal: US$442,360.61

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remaining costs to approval: US$15,000
    2. Estimatedannual supervision cost: US$120,000




                                               100

                            Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File
                            UZBEKISTAN: BASICEDUCATION



----- ConceptNote andMeetingSummary
     PublicExpenditureReview (March, 2005)
      Aid memoires
      Welfare ImprovementStrategyPaper (2005-2010)
-     I S N
      CountryFinancialAccountabilityAssessment (2004)
- World DevelopmentIndicators(2005)
--- Living StandardAssessment (2003)
      MDGreportsfor ECA Region, Includingdata for Uzbekistan
      Reviewof SocialandEconomicAnalysis by Region, for all Regions




                                             101

                                      Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
                                          UZBEKISTAN: BASIC EDUCATION
                                                                                                                    Differencebetween
                                                                                                                    expected and actual
                                                            OriginalAmount in US$Millions                             disbursements

ProjectID  FY     Purpose                                 IBRD      IDA       SF       GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.   Ong.      Frm. Rev'd
PO51370    2005   HEALTH 2                                  0.00    39.48     0.00      0.00     0.00     39.99      9.09         0.00
PO09127    2003   DRAINAGE, IRRIG& WETLANDS                35.00    25.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     49.82     -4.66         0.00
                  IMPRVMT
PO46043    2002   RURENT SUPPORT                           36.14     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      11.32    11.32        -4.1 1
PO49621    2002   BUKHAWSAMARKANDWS                        20.00    20.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     28.12     23.70         0.00
PO09121    1998   RURALWS & SAN                            75.00     0.00     0.00      0.00    13.67      12.51    26.18         2.57

                                                   Total: 166.14    84.48     0.00      0.00    13.67     141.76    65.63       - 1.54




                                                         UZBEKISTAN
                                                    STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                    InMillionsofU S Dollars
                                                Committed                                Disbursed

                                                           IFC                                      IFC
       FY Approval   Company                    Loan      Equity     Quasi     Partic.   Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic.
       1996          ABNAMRO Uzbek              0.00        1.oo      0.00      0.00       0.00       1.oo      0.00       0.00
       1999          Asaka Bank                 2.00        0.00      0.00      0.00       2.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
       2003          Asaka Bank                 4.26        0.00      0.00      0.00       4.26       0.00      0.00       0.00
       1999          NBU-SME                    3.73        0.00      0.00      0.00       3.73       0.00      0.00       0.00
       2000          SEFAsia Granite            1.oo        0.00      0.32      0.00       1.oo       0.00      0.32       0.00
       1999          SEF Elma Cheese            0.51        0.00      0.00      0.00       0.51       0.00      0.00       0.00
       1997          SEFFayz                    0.01        0.30      0.00      0.00       0.01       0.30      0.00       0.00
       2001          SEFHamkorbank              0.50        0.00      0.00      0.00       0.50       0.00      0.00       0.00
       2001          SEFParvina                 0.00        0.00      0.82      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.27       0.00
       1995          UZBEK LEASING              0.00        0.36      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.36      0.00       0.00
       2000          UZBEK LEASING              0.00        0.18      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.18      0.00       0.00
       2003          UZBEK LEASING              1.75        0.00      0.00      0.00       0.25       0.00      0.00       0.00

                                Totalportfolio:  13.76      1.84      1.14      0.00      12.26       1.84      0.59       0.00

                                                            Committed                                  Disbursed

                                                           IFC                                      IFC

       FY Approval   Company                    Loan      Equity     Quasi     Partic.  Loan       Equity      Quasi      Partic.
       1996          ABNAMRO Uzbek              0.00        1.oo      0.00      0.00       0.00       1.oo      0.00       0.00
       1999          Asaka Bank                 2.00        0.00      0.00      0.00       2.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
       2003          Asaka Bank                 4.26        0.00      0.00      0.00       4.26       0.00      0.00       0.00
       1999          NBU-SME                    3.73        0.00      0.00      0.00       3.73       0.00      0.00       0.00
       2000          SEF Asia Granite           1.oo        0.00      0.32      0.00       1.oo       0.00      0.32       0.00
       1999          SEF ElmaCheese             0.51        0.00      0.00      0.00       0.51       0.00      0.00       0.00
       1997          SEF Fayz                   0.01        0.30      0.00      0.00       0.01       0.30      0.00       0.00




                                                                102

2001    SEF Hamkorbank              0.50        0.00      0.00    0.00     0.50   0.00       0.00  0.00
2001    SEF Parvina                 0.00        0.00      0.82    0.00     0.00   0.00       0.27  0.00
1995    UZBEK LEASING               0.00        0.36      0.00    0.00     0.00   0.36       0.00  0.00
2000    UZBEK LEASING               0.00        0.18      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.18      0.00  0.00
2003    UZBEK LEASING               1.75        0.00      0.00    0.00     0.25    0.00      0.00  0.00
                   Totalportfolio:   13.76      1.84      1.14    0.00    12.26    1.84      0.59  0.00




                                                            ApprovalsPendingCommitment
        FY Approval     Company                         Loan      Equity    Quasi     Partic

        2007            Hamkorbank I1                 0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00

                             Total pendingcommitment:    0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00




                                                     103

                                          Annex 14: Country at a Glance

 OVERTY a             IAL
                                                       tan     Asia      Income       1Development diamond'


                                                                            2,353
                                                                             580    I             Life expectancy

                                                                            1364

                                                                                      I
                                                                              19
                                                                              2 3      GNI                              Gross
                                                                                      ~

                                                                                       per                              primary
                                                                                       capita                        enrollment


                                                                               31                        I
                                                                   69         59
                                                                   28         80
                                                                    5         39           Access to improvedwater source
                                                                   92         75      ~




                                                                   97         62
                                                                  1)4         04             -Uzbekistan
                                                                  1)5         11)                  Lowincomegroup
                                                                  r)2         99

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and
                                                               2004        2005
GDP (                                                            2.0          0 7
Gross                                                            24 5        25 1
Export                      IGDP                                 40 2        39 6
Gross                                                            319         32 7
Gross                                                            345        35 7
                                                 ..     5 2       9.9         13.6

                                                 .       06        12
                                                        0.5      416
                                                                 172
                                                                 39
                                                                 96

                                                               2005 2005-09
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                                               7.0         3.5
GDP percapita                                                     5 5         2 2             -Lowincomegroup                  1
Exportsof goods andservices                                       92


STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                            1985      1995     2004        2005        growth of
(%of GDP)                                                                                        capltal and GDP (%)

Agriculture                                      ..    32.3      30.8        28.1       T
industry                                         _.    27.8      26.0        28.7
 Manufacturing                                   ..      119     n.2          113
Services                                         ..    39.9      43.3       43.2

Householdfinalconsumptionexpenditure             ._    50.6      519        50.9             00     01   02    03    04    05
Generalgov't finalconsumptionexpenditure               22.3      15.2        15.4
Importsof goods andservices                      ..._   28.1     32.8       32.0      I        -GCF           -GDP



                                         1985-95 1995-05       2004        2005
(average annualgrowth)                                                                 Growth of exports and imports (%)

Agriculture                                   0.3        4.9      lJ.1        6.2   1 3 0 ~
industry                                      -4.3       2.9      5.0         5.0
 Manufacturing                                           1.3      2.0         2.0
Services                                     -3.8        5.0      7.5         8.0
Householdfinalconsumptionexpenditure
Generalgov't finalconsumptionexpenditure
Gross capitalformation                       -0.5        4.6      5.2         7.0
Importsof goods andservices                      ..     -0.9     8.3          3.5


Note:2005 dataarepreliminaryestimates.
This tablewas producedfrom the DevelopmentEconomics LDB database.
*Thediamondsshowfour keyindicators inthecountry(in bo1d)comparedwithits income-groupaverage.B dataaremissing,thediamondwill

                                                              104

995   2004




   105

                          Annex 15: Letterof DevelopmentPolicy


                                                                               September 18,2006

Mr.PaulD.Wolfowitz
President
The World Bank

Letter of Development Policy


Dear Mr.Wolfowitz,

The purpose o f this Letter i s to describe the current situation in the education system o f
Uzbekistan and define the main directions and necessary tools for its further development.

The National Program for Personnel Training (NPPT) launched in 1997 started educational
reforms with restructuringsecondary and higher education inorder to provide the new knowledge
and slulls required in the contemporary global economy. A comprehensive National School
Education Development Program has been adopted by the Uzbekistan government in2004 as the
next stage to achieve goals of the NPPT. The main objectives o f the School Education
Development Program include significant improvements inthe school education system including
improvements in physical conditions o f educational facilities, development o f educational
standards satisfactory to international standards,, creation o f equal access, and quality and
educational conditions for children living inrural and urban areas.

Untilnow, the working relationships betweenUzbelustanand the World Bankhave not included
borrowing for education although we maintain a strong policy dialogue on sector developments.
The Ministry of Public Education i s working closely with other international partners such as
ADB, Islamic Development Bank, UNICEF, UNESCO, and bilateral donors. At this stage we
request the support from the World Bank to be extended to financial and technical cooperation on
the School EducationDevelopment Program through a credit from the International Development
Association in the form o f an Adaptable Program Credit. An initial commitment o f US$40
million with a one and a half first phase o f about US$15 million is requested to support
implementation o f this initiative.

Recent developments
Secondary education in Uzbekistan was extended fiom 9 to 12 years under the NPPT. Basic
general school education last 9 years while years 10-12 are covered by professional colleges and
academic lycea. Among all transition economies, Uzbekistan today stands out for the particular
attention the government has given to the education sector. With spending levels at around 9
percent o f GDP, Uzbekistan reaches or even exceeds OECD standards. Untilrecently, education
expenditure has concentrated on new programs to upgrade upper-vocational secondary education,
while acute investment shortages have remained inbasic education (grades 1-9). This imbalance
has been addressed under the 2004 National School Education Development Program in
general school education. Total education sector expenditures under this program are planned to
increase to 11percent o f GDP. The investment costs o f the program are estimated at $1.2 billion
over the projected 2004-2009 implementation period. The program i s to be financed by a
combination o f donor financing and budget financing, the central feature o f which i s a new


                                                106

earmarked sales tax o f 1 percent. This new tax i s expected to generate additional revenues o f
from 150 to 170 billion soums per year. Donor financing o f about $82 million has also been
pledgedinsupport ofthe program, and more i s beingsought.

The School EducationDevelopmentProgramcomprises a major program o f schoolrehabilitation
and construction, provision o f educational materials and equipment (including IT and internet
access), and training of teachers and school principals. Accompanying the major investments
underthe programare significant performance-based salary increases for teachers and school
principals. Salary increasesadopted since the start of the programreportedly average over 50
percent and reverse the long-term trend of declining real salaries inthe sector. They are also
expected to helprestore prestigeinthe teaching profession and to attract qualified graduates to
become teachers. The Program is expected to addressthe lack o f teachers' professional
competence to promote active engagementby students on their own learning, insufficient and
outdated equipment inclassrooms and special rooms, poor provision with modem teaching aids,
and ineffective use o f available teaching aids and information technologies inorder to improve
leamindteaching quality ingeneral secondary schools.
The government o fUzbekistanfinances school rehabilitation andconstruction andInternational
Financial Institutions (IFIs) such as ADB, Islamic Development Bank, and bilateral donors
support school equipment. However, untilnow the supply o f learningmaterials, an important
resource inthe education process, i s not financed from any source and therefore we request
World Bank fundingto fillthis gap.
Inrecentyears anumber ofprograms, includingNGOimplementedanddonor-financed ones,
took place inthe area of teachers' professionaldevelopment. However, the need for teacher
training inthe sector with nearly 450 thousand teachers i s extremely highand it was not covered
by these programs. Another issue inteacher training is that the majority o fMPEsanctioned
teachers' shlls improvement programs are focused on novelties (?)inthe content and specific
subjects rather than inteaching methods. This strategy does not encourage improvement o f the
entire school learning environment and therefore there i s a strongneed for introducing an
innovative teacher training model to address these gaps. Moreover, the situation i s made worse
by the use of outdated student evaluation systems that mostly focus on assessingcurriculum
content lmowledge.
There are significant regional disparities inper-studentfundingof general schools. The
disparities inper-studentspending ingeneral education are substantially higher at the district
level compared to the regional level, and yet higher at the school level. Inaddition, the current
inputs-based education budgetingsystemresults in substantial inefficiencies inresource use. To
improve the equity inschool financing we suggest developing a new mechanism o fper-capita
funds allocation strengthenedbymanagerial school autonomy.


Statementof the assistanceneeded
We request World Bank support to implementinterventionsthat are part o f or complementary to
the on-going activities under the National School EducationDevelopment Program.
The objectives of the project are to improve: (i)    efficiency o f teaching and learning in general
secondary schools and pre-schools of participatingregions through provision o f new teaching and
learning materials, improving teaching practices and activation of school boards activities; (ii)
efficiency of budget allocation and strengthening of budget planning and formulation in general
secondary education; and (iii)    the capacity o f the MPE to implement and monitor investment
programs.




                                                 107

This would include:
    9 provisionoflearningmaterialsandother learningresources, whicharenotestimatedto
        result insizeable maintenance expenditures;
    P introducing an innovativeapproach andmethodology into the in-service training scheme
        for teachers and principals that would help increase efficiency and the capacity of teacher
        training institutions to train all teachers in shorter periods o f time.;
    P activation of school boardsto increase school accountability bygivingparents and other
        members of the school community a more active participation in school decisionmaking.
        Since this activity i s crucial to ensure community and parents' participation and influence
        on the education process and educational outcomes, it plays a central role duringthe first
        years o f the project;
    P capacity buildingineducation finance, budgeting, andmanagement to respondto an
        immediate need for training on a new system o f education finance; and
    9 strengtheningthe capacity oftheMinistryofPublic Educationtomonitorthe impactof
        projects and programs impact and to assess progress instudents' learning.

The primary rationale for usingproject funds to increase public fundingo f basic education in
Uzbekistanrests on equity grounds. The Ministryo f Public Education (MPE) has applied three
targeting criteria indetermining which rayons are to benefit from Project interventions: 1) the
share ofrural andremote schools inthe rayon; 2) relatively poorer rayons within an oblast; and 3)
those rayons that are considered "waterless and deserted areas" under ResolutionN2215 o f the
Cabinet o f Ministers dated August 9, 1991. The specific attributes o fthe basic education sub-
sector inUzbelustan are such that the inequities do not lie predominantly inenrolment or
attendance rates (which are near universal). Instead, they manifest themselves inthe school
infrastructure as well as availability o f learning and teaching inputs, and they are apparent
between urban and rural and remote areas. Addressing these types of inequities is a worthy use o f
public funds since school resources have an impact on learning outcomes for basic education
students.

The Uzbekistan Basic Education Project will be implemented by the Ministry o f Public
Education. In the course o f the project implementation, the Ministry o f Public Education will
give special attention to the results o f monitoring and social evaluation, which will enable a
timely and adequate response to the problems that may exist or emerge inthe field.

Monitoring results will be evaluated by the relevant agencies and departments o f the Ministry o f
Public Education, and byproject consultants.

The triggers to move on to Phase 2 o f the APL will be: (i)at least 75% o f school boards in the
project schools have participated in the school needs assessment and prioritization o f teaching
and learning materials; and (ii)   a standardized student assessment system has been piloted on a
sample o f students attending bothproject schools and non-project schools.


Sincerely Yours


T. Djuraev
Minister
MinistryofPublic Education




                                                   108

MAP SECTION


                  55E                                                                        60E                                           65E                                                 70E

                        KAZAKHSTAN
                   To
                   To
                  Atyrau                                                                   Aral                                                                                                                                               45N
              45N                                                                         Sea              2001 level of Aral Sea

                                                                                                             1990 level of Aral Sea
                                                                                                                                                        Syr                                                           UZBEKISTAN

                                                                                                                1960 level of Aral Sea                      Dar ya


                   U s t y u r t
                  P l a t e a u                                          Muynak                                                                                 K A Z A K H S T A N
                                                    K A R A K A L PA A K S T A N                                          K  y    z
                                                                                   muDarya                                            y    l
                                                                                                                                                K
                                                                                                                                                     u
                                                                                                                                                         m
                                                                                           Nukus                               d                                                                                                KYRGYZ
                                                                                                                            n        N O V O II
                                                                                                                                     N A V O                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                        Qyzylorda               Adelunga Toghi REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                          a         Uchkuduk                                                                    (4301 m)
                                                                                                                      l                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                             To                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                          Qyzylorda                           NAMANGAN             Bishkek
                                                                                                                   w
                                                                                                   Urgench
                                                                                     KHOREZM              L o                                                                                                                  ANDIZHAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ANDIJON
                                                                                                                                             Muruntau                         SYRDARYA            TASHKENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Namangan
                                                                                                 a n                                                                                       TASHKENT                             Andizhan
                0        50       100       150       200 Kilometers               T      u   r

                                                                                                                                                                             Gagarin       Darya          Kokand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Fergana
                0              50             100              150 Miles                                     AmuDar ya                                                                  Syr


                                                                                                                                                                       DZHIZAK
                                                                                                                                                                        JIZZAKH          Guliston                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kashi  40N
              40N                                                                                                     BBU KKH O R O
                                                                                                                           U    H A    A
                                                                                                                                                      Zera v              Dzhizak
                                                                                                                                                                          Jizzakh                                             FERGANA
                                                                                                                                                            shan
                                                                                                                                                Navoi
                                                                                                                                   Bukhara
                                                                                                                                   Bukhoro            SAMARKAND
              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information             TURKMENISTAN                                                         Samarkand
              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                               60E                                                  K A S H K A D A R YA                                         TAJIKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                            Qarshi                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                            Khorugh
                      UZBEKISTAN                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                             Mary
                                                                                                                                                                             Denau

                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                            SURKHANDARYA
                                  OBLAST (VILOYATI) CAPITALS

                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                            Termiz
                                                                                                                                                                             er
                                  RIVERS

                                  MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                            To
NOVEMBER                          RAILROADS                                                                                                                                Kabul                                                                   IBRD
                                  OBLAST (VILOYATI) BOUNDARIES                                                                                                        A F G H A N I S T A N                                     PAKISTAN               33508
        2004                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                               65E                                                       70E

