Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  09/20/2006 
Report No.:  37395
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Uzbekistan 
Project ID:  P094042 
Project Name:  BASIC EDUCATION, Phase I 
Task Team Leader:  Ernesto P. Cuadra 
Estimated Appraisal Date: October 10, 
2005 
Estimated Board Date: October 24, 2006 
Managing Unit:  ECSHD 
Lending Instrument:  Adaptable Program 
Loan 
Sector:  Primary education (100%) 
Theme:  Education for all (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
15.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.10
0.10 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
Project objectives:  
 
The APL will last four years (2006-2010) with implementation in two phases.  Phase 
one of the program will span one year and a half.  To provide continuity of program 
interventions, the start of phase two will overlap by about six months with phase one. 
However, phase two will only start if the triggers described below have been met.  
 
Program objectives.  The program will support Uzbekistan?s efforts to improve 
effectiveness of teaching in general secondary education and pre-schools in order to 
provide students with the new knowledge and skills required in the contemporary global 
economy.  
 
Project development objectives.  During phase one, the project development objective is 
to improve learning conditions in pre-school and the first four grades of general 
secondary education.  This will be achieved by increasing the availability of teaching and 
learning materials in schools located in rural poor areas, enhancing the capacity of 
teacher training institutions to introduce school based teacher training strategies, 
increasing community involvement in school decision making, creating the conditions for 
Page  2
a
successful introduction of school per-capita funding, and building project 
implementation, managerial and monitoring and evaluation capacity in the MPE.  
 
Triggers.  The second phase will be initiated under two conditions: (i) school boards in 
at least 75% of project schools have participated in school needs assessment and 
prioritization of learning materials; and (ii) standardized student assessments have been 
piloted in a representative sample of students in project and non-project schools.   
 
3. Project Description 
The proposed Basic Education Project will have five main components:  
 
Component 1.  Provision of Learning Materials and Resources for Grades one to four of 
General Schools and Pre-Schools. (US$9.8 million)  
 
The objective of this component is to improve the quality of teaching and learning in 
selected and grades schools by providing them with modern, low cost and high impact 
learning materials and resources. This is to be done in full alignment with the priorities 
and on-going activities of the School Education Development Program (2004-2009) and 
in coordination with education projects supported by other donors also focused on 
equipping schools with teaching and learning resources, materials and aids.  
 
Component 2.  Strengthening of In-Service Training for Teachers and Principals in 
General Secondary Schools and Pre-Schools (US$3.8 million)  
 
The objective of this component is to increase the capacity of the Republican Institute 
for Pre-School Teacher Training and the Republican Institute for Teacher Training to 
provide training to a larger number of teachers in any given year.  This will be done by 
developing ability and expertise in these Institutes for conducting school based teacher 
training. The component will also help strengthen the material capacity of rayon 
methodological centers and school teachers? rooms to develop and produce child 
centered learning materials by providing them with appropriate workstations and 
audiovisual equipment.  
 
Component 3. Support activation of school boards (US$0.17 million)  
 
The objective of this component is to contribute to the improvement of school 
environment and students? learning achievement by strengthening and stimulating 
community participation in school needs assessment and prioritization for selection of 
learning materials. It will support the establishment and operation of School Boards as an 
instrument for the implementation of the National ?Oila-Mahalla-Maktab?  Concept. The 
component activities will build on experience gained during the implementation of 
similar initiatives carried out under different donor supported projects (UNICEF and 
USAID-PEAKS)  in support of school community mobilization. It will support activities 
related to components one.  
 
Page  3
Component 4.  Improvements in Education Finance, Budgeting Management, and 
Accounting (US$0.89 million).  
 
The objective of this component is to ascertain an appropriate formula, design an 
implementation plan, prepare training materials, and put all necessary legal and 
institutional prerequisites in place to support the introduction of per-capita funding in 
Bukhara oblast during phase two of the program. This work will lay the groundwork for 
expanding per capita financing in the education sector.  
 
Component 5: Support for Project Management and Results Management (US$0.44 
million).  
 
The objective of this component is to enhance the capacity of line units of the MPE to 
coordinate and implement the Basic Education Project, and in so doing, strengthen the 
capacity of the MPE and other education institutions to manage, implement, monitor and 
evaluate the impact of education interventions.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
N/A   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
This project does not have any civil works.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
n/a   
Page  4
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
n/a   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
n/a   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
n/a   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
n/a   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  5
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Ernesto P. Cuadra 
09/08/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Juan Manuel Moreno Olmedilla 
 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Charles C. Griffin 
09/19/2006 
Comments:   
