Page  1
Document of
 
The World Bank 
 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
 
Report No: 58671  
 
RESTRUCTURING PAPER 
 
ON A 
 
PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING  
 
OF  
 
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT-PHASE I  
 
ON A  
 
CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.1 MILLION 
(US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT) 
 
TO THE 
 
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN 
 
DECEMBER 20, 2010 
 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the 
performance of their official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World 
Bank authorization. 
Page  2
Vice President:
Philippe Le Houerou 
Country Director:
Motoo Konishi 
Country Manager
Takuya Kamata 
Sector Manager / Director:
Alberto Rodriguez/Mamta Murthi 
Task Team Leader:
Scherezad Joya Monami Latif 
Page  3
Basic Education Project Phase I 
(P094042, Credit No. 4240-UZ) 
Restructuring Memo 
 
1. 
This memo seeks approval for a two month extension of the closing date of the 
Basic Education 
Project Phase I from December 31, 2010 to February 28, 2011. 
 This would be the third extension of 
the Project for a cumulative of 32 months. 
The Borrower’s request for a 2 month extension was sent to the 
Bank on December 16, 2010 (attached).   
2. 
To date, approximately USD 11.04 million equivalents has been disbursed from the credit, 
accounting for 72 percent of credit proceeds.  As of December 15, 2010, the current undisbursed balance 
of the credit account is USD 4.43 million.  After the reconciliation of accounts, it is estimated that the 
Project would close with an undisbursed balance of USD 1.4 million. 
3. 
The Project is currently performing satisfactorily and has picked up speed considerably in the past 
8
months and has both reached all its indicators and is close to completing all of its ongoing activities. 
The two month extension is being sought so that only one remaining activity-- the procurement of 
computers to schools throughout the country in order to support the Per Capita Financing reforms-- may 
be completed.   In light of savings accumulated due to the appreciation of the SDR in relation to the USD, 
the Government has asked the Bank to allow them to purchase additional computers to expand their 
availability to all schools.   
 
4. 
The proposed extension would help ensure greater utilization of the Credit proceeds. Moreover, 
should this two month extension be granted, the strong commitment shown by the Ministry of Public 
Education makes it likely that this one remaining activity would be completed satisfactorily and would 
contribute further towards the efficiency reforms which this project jumpstarted. It bears mentioning that 
Phase II of the Project is being implemented effectively and is being implemented satisfactorily.   
 
5. 
There are no outstanding audit reports and the last audit report was found satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
