Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4240-UZ 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Basic Education Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated January 29, 2007  
 
Page  2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4240-UZ 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated January 29, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to ten 
million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,100,000) 
(“Credit”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the MPE 
in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:  
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
(b) 
The Operational Manual or any provision thereof has been assigned, 
amended, abrogated or waived without a prior approval of the 
Association. 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of 30 days after notice of the event 
has been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
 
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the 
Operational Manual satisfactory to the Association has been adopted by the 
Recipient. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Recipient. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
Mustakilik Square 5 
 
Tashkent 100008 
 
Republic of Uzbekistan 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
11 6360 IK BOL 
(998-71) 144-5643 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  6
-
4
-
AGREED at Tashkent, Republic of Uzbekistan, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Rustam Azimov 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Loup J. Brefort 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to improve: (i) the efficiency of teaching and 
learning in general secondary schools and pre-schools of participating regions through 
provision of new teaching and learning materials, improving teaching practices and 
activation of school boards activities; (ii) the efficiency of budget allocation and 
strengthening of budget planning and formulation in general secondary education; and 
(iii) the capacity of the MPE to implement and monitor investment programs. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A
.
Provision of Learning Materials and Resources for Grades One to Four in 
General Secondary Schools and Pre-Schools
1. 
Provision of learning materials, equipment and other resources to selected pre-
schools and to all classes in grades one to four in general secondary schools.  
2. 
Training of local educational sector officials, members of school boards and 
other stakeholders. 
Part B
.
Strengthening of In-Service Training for Teachers and Principals in General 
Secondary Schools and Pre-Schools
1. 
Design of training modules and programs and provision of assistance for the 
production and distribution of teacher training materials to promote the use of active 
learning strategies, improvement of student assessment methods, cooperation-based work 
methods, community mobilization and effective use of modern teaching aids in pre-
schools and general secondary schools.  
2. 
Provision of training equipment at the republican, oblast, rayon and school levels 
of the educational sector. 
3. 
Introduction of school-based teacher training strategies in the Republican 
Institute for Teacher Training, the Republican Institute for Pre-School Teacher Training, 
and seven Regional Teacher Training Institutes. 
Part C
.
Support for School Boards Activation
Provision of training and technical assistance to central and local level officials, 
as well as school principals and local community stakeholders, on the establishment of 
school boards and their involvement in school needs assessment and selection of training 
materials. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
Part D
.
Improvements in Education Finance, Budget Management and Accounting
1. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to the MPE for: (i) evaluating 
alternative per-capita funding options; (ii) designing an implementation plan for 
expanding per-capita funding to the oblast level; and (iii) preparing regulations to support 
the introduction of per-capita funding. 
2. 
Provision of equipment for education budgeting and accounting at the central, 
oblast, rayon and school level.  
Part E
.
Project Management and Results Management
Strengthening of the capacity of the MPE for project management, 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation, including school surveys, audit, 
procurement, disbursement and financial management activities through provision of 
goods, technical assistance, training and financing of its incremental operating costs. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports. 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester (six months), and 
shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after the 
end of the period covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than 6 months prior the Closing Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
1. 
The Recipient shall, through the MPE, maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 
of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall, 
through the MPE, prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty five 
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall, through the MPE, have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end of such 
period.
 
4. 
The Recipient shall, through the MPE: 
 
(a) 
have the internal control framework, the operational processes and 
procedures followed under the Project audited for the first 12 months of Project 
implementation, in accordance with terms of reference and by independent 
auditors both acceptable to the Association;  
 
Page  10
-
8
-
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period: (i) certified copies of the 
assessment of the internal control framework, the operational processes and 
procedures referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such period, as so 
audited; and (ii) an opinion on such processes and procedures by said auditors, in 
scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, as to whether they provide the 
Recipient adequate accounting, internal control and financial reporting as 
intended for the Project; and  
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
internal control framework, operational processes and procedures, and the audit 
of such internal control framework, operational processes and procedures, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request. 
Section II. 
Procurement
A. General
.
1.
 Goods.
 
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Page  11
-
9
-
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to the 
additional provisions set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule 2 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
C. Particular
 Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Selection Under a fixed Budget 
 
(b)  Least-Cost Selection 
 
(c)  Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
 
(d)  Selection of Individual Consultants, including 
Single-Source Selection 
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Page  12
-
10
-
Section III. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General. 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1)  Goods  
 
9,542,400 
 
100% 
(2)  Consultants’ services   
 
and audit 
 
471,500  100% 
(3)  Training 
 
76,000 
 
100% 
(4)  Operating Costs 
 
10,100 
 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
10,100,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2008. 
Page  13
-
11
-
ANNEX  
to  
SCHEDULE 2 
 
National competitive bidding procedures of the Recipient may be used for 
procurement under the Project provided that the following provisions are complied with: 
1. General
The Recipient represents that the procedures to be followed for national 
competitive bidding under Section II, Part B, paragraph 2, of Schedule 2 to the Financing 
Agreement shall be those set forth in Council of Ministers Resolution No. 456 on 
Measures to Improve the Organization of Tenders for Purchases of Raw Materials, Spare 
Parts and Equipment, that became effective on  November 21, 2000, with the 
clarifications set forth in the following paragraphs required for compliance with the 
provisions of the Procurement Guidelines. 
2. Registration
(a) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms. 
(b) 
Where registration is required, bidders (i) shall be allowed a reasonable 
time to complete the registration process and (ii) shall not be denied registration for 
reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to successfully perform the contract, 
which shall be verified through post-qualification. 
(c) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration 
process is required, a foreign bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity to register. 
3. Advertising
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
daily newspaper allowing a minimum of 30 days for the preparation and submission of 
bids. 
4. Pre-qualification
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works, invitations 
to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
daily newspaper a minimum of 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-
qualification applications. Minimum experience, technical and financial requirements 
shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents. 
Page  14
-
12
-
5. 
Participation by Government-owned enterprises
Government-owned enterprises in the Republic of Uzbekistan shall be eligible to 
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially 
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the 
contracting authority.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid performance 
security requirements as other bidders. 
6. Bidding 
Documents
Purchasers shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods, works or services, acceptable to the Association. 
7. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids. 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents. 
(c) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder having submitted the  
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiation shall take place. 
(d) 
Price verification should not be applied to Bank-financed contracts. 
8. Price 
Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen (18) months) 
shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
9. 
Rejection of Bids
(a) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Association’s prior concurrence. 
(b) 
When the number of bids received is less than three, re-bidding shall not 
be carried out without the Association’s prior concurrence. 
 
Page  15
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each May 15 and November 15: 
 
commencing November 15, 2016 to and including 
May 15, 2026 
 
1.25% 
commencing November 15, 2026 to and including 
May 15, 2041 
 
2.5% 
________________________ 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to 
be repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) 
of the General Conditions. 
Page  16
-
14
-
APPENDIX 
 Definitions 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
4. 
“MPE” means the Ministry of Public Education of the Recipient or any successor 
thereto. 
5. 
“Operating Costs” means incremental operating costs incurred by the MPE on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office 
equipment and its maintenance and repair, vehicle maintenance and repair, local 
travel, communication, translation and interpretation, bank charges, and other 
miscellaneous costs directly associated with the Project, all based on periodic 
budgets acceptable to the Association. 
6. 
“Operational Manual” means an operational manual acceptable to the 
Association and adopted by the Recipient pursuant to Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement. 
7. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated September 14, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
9. 
“Program” means the program designed to improve teaching conditions in 
general secondary schools and pre-schools and set forth or referred to in the letter 
dated September 18, 2006 from the Recipient to the Association. 
10. 
“Training” means expenditures for Project related training courses, seminars, 
workshops and other training activities not included under goods or service 
providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment 
rental, travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers. 
Page  17
-
15 - 
 
