THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO       RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP 11) APL PHASE 2
.RPI5O
THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT II
(ESDP 11)
APL PHASE 11
RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
(FINAL DRAFT 04/01/2003)
JAMES OREHMIE MONDAY






THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                      RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.s
A. Introduction                                                     ..3.
B. Principles and objectives governing resettlement preparation    ..6
and implementation.
C. A description of the process for preparing and approving         ..9
Resettlement plans.
D. Land acquisition and likely categories of impact.               ..12
E. Eligibility criteria for defining various categories of project affected persons.  ..14
F. A legal Framework reviewing the fit between the laws of Lesotho  ..15
and regulations and Bank policy requirements and measures to bridge any gaps
proposed between them.
G. Methods of valuing affected assets.                              ..19
H. Organizational procedures for the delivery of entitlements, including,  ..25
for projects involving private sector intermediaries, the responsibilities financial
intermediary, the government, and the private developer.
I. A description of the implementation process, linking resettlement implementation ..26
to civil works.
J. A description of the grievance redress mechanisms.                ..27
K. A description of the arrangements for funding resettlement, including the  ..28 ¶
preparation and review of cost estimates, the flow of funds,
and contingency arrangements.
L. A description of mechanisms for consultations with, and participation of,  ..29
displaced persons in planning, implementation, and monitoring.
M. Arrangements for monitoring by the implementation agency and,      ..30
if required, by independent monitors.
2



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
A.    INTRODUCTION
1.    The Kingdom of Lesotho is a small mountainous developing country completely
surrounded by South Africa with a population of about 2 million people. With scarce
resources, attributable to the harsh environment on the highland plateau and limited
agricultural space in the lowlands for sustainable agricultural activities such as
subsistence and pastoral farming, Lesotho (despite being landlocked) has abundant
highland fresh water resources and the skills of its resourceful people, the Basotho.
2.    Through the Highland Water Project, Lesotho is successfully harnessing its fresh
water resources for export to South Africa. Similarly, the Government of Lesotho (GoL)
has manifested its commitment to the education of its people by ( a) devoting a relatively
high share of government budget to education, (b) embracing the Education for All and
Millennium Development Goals, (c) identifying education as one of the key strategies for
alleviating poverty in its interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), and (d)
adopting a Free Primary Education (FPE) Policy in 1999.
3.    In line with this strategy, the GoL requested the World Bank for support and the
12 year Education Sector Development Program (II) was designed in 1999 (prior to FPE)
as a 12 year Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to support the education sector. The goal
of the 12 year program is to assist the GoL in achieving its goal of producing more and
better educated Basotho and enabling them to participate in local and regional labor
markets.
4.    The ESDP II is to be implemented in three phases: APL 1 (1999-2002), APL 2
(2003 -2006) and APL 3 (2007 - 201 1).
5.    APL 1 supported mostly primary and secondary education, extensive analysis
and capacity building in the areas of ECD, TVET that would underpin investment
decisions in APL 2 and in NFE. Similarly, analytical work completed in APL2 will
underpin investment decisions for APL 3.
6.    Therefore, the development objective of the proposed ESDP II, APL 2, is to
further increase the access, equity, and the quality of primary and secondary education
and continued strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Education.
7.    The proposed ESDP II, APL 2 is structured to achieve its objectives within nine
major investment components of the project, which are;
1.    Improving Coverage through Construction of Classrooms.
2.    Targeted Equity Based Program
3.    Essential Teaching and Learning Materials
4.    School Support through Decentralized Inspection and Advisory Services
5.    Strengthening School - level Management
6.    Distance Teacher Education Program
7.    Basic Education Curriculum and Examination
8.    Expansion of ECCD through Home-based Care
9.    Further strengthening MOE Institutional Capacity
3



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP 11) APL PHASE 2
The detailed policy and investment elements of the proposed APL 2 Project for the
period July 2003 to December 2007 are:
.  270 primary classrooms with associated administrative block, kitchen, and
latrines are built, 70 of which will be located in remote areas
*  80 classrooms will be added to the existing 20 secondary schools which are
identified for being overcrowded (4 classrooms for each secondary school)
*  20,000 scholarships awarded to orphans and other disadvantaged children
annually
* Additional core primary textbooks provided to cater for the new enrolment and
replenishment and secondary textbook revolving fund established
*  5000 primary teachers and 1000 secondary teachers of Math, English, Science,
and Sesotho provided with refresher course bi-annually
*  Primary inspectors (45), primary advisors (85), secondary inspectors (20) and
secondary advisors (17) trained
*  District management strengthened and 10 District Resource Centres provided
with equipment and library materials
*  School management (400 primary principles and deputies, 100 primary
management committees, 500 secondary principals and deputies, and 30
Secondary Boards) trained in finance and management
*  Distance Teacher Education Program continue to be supported so that it
produces at least 250 graduates annually from 2005 onwards
*  Develop an Integrated Curriculum and Examination Framework, localize the
Cambridge Overseas School Certificate Exam and continue to implement
National Standardized Tests in basic literacy and numeracy
*  ECCD home-based centres established in all districts (at least 2 bases per
district)
* Two Non-formal Education Learner Post pilots continue to be supported
* Policy development and capacity building in higher education
* MOE institutional capacity strengthened including (a) Strategic Plan reviewed
and annual operational plans in use; (b) MTEF implemented annually and
education PER updated by 2004; (c) donor coordination strengthened; (d)
Education Planning Unit strengthened in policy development, planning,
monitoring and evaluation; (e) construction of MOE Headquarters building; (f)
ongoing MOE staff training in strategic areas; and (i) HIV/AIDS policy
development.
8.    Specifically, Component 1, Improve Coverage through  Construction  of
Classrooms, will finance the construction of new primary schools and the expansion of
facilities of existing secondary schools.
9.    The identification of sites for primary school construction will be based on the
needs of local communities as expressed by them and/or the findings from a soon to be
commissioned school mapping exercise. Current information from the Ministry of
Education (MoE) Education Management Information System (EMIS) show that Thaba -
Tseka and Maseru Districts have the highest average pupil:classroom ratios (68 and 59).
Therefore, the primary construction will be mainly targeted in these two districts unless
the school mapping exercise proves the contrary.
4



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
10.   Under Component 1, therefore, land will have to be acquired to build these new
schools on and to support the expansion of some existing schools. It is expected that in
a vast majority of cases due to joint partnership manifested through effective
participation and consultation between the GoL/MoE and the local communities,
significant efforts would be made to select these sites to avoid or minimize impacts on
people, land, property and on access to natural and other economic resources, as far as
possible.
11.   To this effect the GoL has prepared guidelines for the establishment of new
government primary schools which seeks community mobilization and participation and
guidelines for identifying school sites.
12.   Notwithstanding, in a minority of cases, identification, selection and acquisition of
land for the construction of new schools and/or the expansion of others, that may lead to
either the physical displacement of people, or their loss, denial or restriction of access to
economic resources (such as farm land and/or trees for example and/or huts for
residential, rest or commercial purposes) and therefore to resettlement and
compensation seems inevitable in some minority cases in this project.
13.   When this occurs, Laws of Lesotho as contained in the Land Act 1979 and the
World Bank Operational Policy OP 4.12 on Involuntary Settlement, will be triggered.
14.   The GoL is not required to prepare a Resettlement Plan at this stage since the
land/sites have not yet been identified. However, the GoL is required by Bank policy to
prepare a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) to be publicly disclosed in Lesotho
and at the infoshop at the Bank. The date for disclosure in-country and at the infoshop at
the Bank must precede-the date for appraisal of the project.
15.   The  RPF   establishes  the  resettlement and  compensation  principles,
organizational arrangements and design criteria to be applied to meet the needs of the
people who may be affected by the project. The RPF is prepared to the standards of the
Governments own policy on resettlement and compensation and the policy of the World
Bank, OP 4.12.
16.   When the school mapping exercise is complete and specific planning information
on the location of these new schools is made and land/sites are identified,
resettlement/compensation plans will be subsequently prepared consistent with this
policy framework and will be submitted to the Bank for approval before any land
acquisition, resettlement, loss, denial of, and restriction to natural resources or any
other impact on livelihood occurs.
14.   This RPF covers the following sections;
B. Principles and objectives governing resettlement preparation and
implementation.
C. A description of the process for preparing and approving resettlement plans.
D. Land acquisition and likely categories of impact.
E. Eligibility criteria for defining various categories of project affected persons.
5



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP 11) APL PHASE 2
F. A legal Framework reviewing the fit between the laws of Lesotho and regulations
and Bank policy requirements and measures proposed to bridge any gaps
between them.
G. Methods of valuing affected assets.
H. Organizational procedures for the delivery of entitlements, including, for projects
involving private sector intermediaries, the responsibilities of the financial
intermediary, the government, and the private developer.
1. A description of the implementation process, linking resettlement implementation
to civil works.
J. A description of the grievance redress mechanisms.
K. A description of the arrangements for funding resettlement, including the
preparation and review of cost estimates, the flow of funds, and contingency
arrangements.
L. A description of mechanisms for consultations with, and participation of,
displaced persons in planning, implementation, and monitoring.
M. Arrangements for monitoring by the implementation agency and, if required, by
independent monitors.
B. PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTIVES GOVERNING RESETTLEMENT
PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION.
The impacts due to involuntary resettlement from development projects, if left
unmitigated, often gives rise to severe economic, social and environmental risks
resulting in production systems being dismantled, people facing impoverishment when
their productive skills may be less applicable and the competition for resources greater;
community institutions and social networks being weakened; kin groups being dispersed;
and cultural identity, traditional authority, and the potential for mutual help are diminished
or lost. The resettlement policy, in most cases, is not triggered because people are being
affected by physical displacement. It is triggered because the project activity causes land
acquisition, whereby a physical piece of land is needed and people may be affected
because they are cultivating on that land, they may have buildings on the land, they may
use the land for water and grazing of animals or they may otherwise access the land
economically, spiritually or any other way which may not be possible during and after the
project is implemented. Therefore, people are in most cases compensated for their loss
(of land, property or access) either in kind or in cash of which the former is preferred.
Therefore, the objectives of this policy are the following;
(i)   Involuntary resettlement and land acquisition should be avoided where feasible,
or minimized, exploring all viable alternatives.
(ii)  Where involuntary resettlement and land acquisition is unavoidable, resettlement
and compensation activities should be conceived and executed as sustainable
6



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP 11) APL PHASE 2
development programs, providing sufficient investment resources to give the persons
affected and/or displaced by the project the opportunity to share in project benefits.
Affected and/or displaced and compensated persons should be meaningfully consulted
and should have opportunities to participate in planning and implementing resettlement
programs.
(iii)  Affected and/or displaced and compensated persons should be assisted in their
efforts to improve their livelihoods and standards of living or at least to restore them, in
real terms, to pre-displacement levels or levels prevailing prior to the beginning of
project implementation, whichever is higher.
Affected people, according to the Bank policy, refers to people who are directly affected
socially and economically by the bank assisted investment projects, caused by:
(a) the involuntary taking of land and other assets resulting in:
a. relocation or loss of shelter
b. loss of assets or access to assets
c. loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected
persons must move to another location;
or
(b) the involuntary restriction or access to legally designated parks and protected
areas results in adverse impacts on the livelihood of the affected and/or displaced
persons.
The resettlement policy applies to all components under the project, whether or
not they are directly funded in whole or in part by the Bank. Therefore, even though
the construction of the Head Office Complex for the Ministry of Education under this
project is not being financed by the Bank, the resettlement policy also applies to this
activity. At the time of the preparation of this RPF the potential sites to house this Head
Office complex were all in the Central Business District (CBD) of Maseru on existing
government land that contained existing buildings housing other government
departments and ministries. The selection of one of these potential sites would mean
relocation of those government offices and demolition of those government buildings. If
the decision therefore is to use one of these sites then, the issues of resettlement and
therefore OP4.12 do not arise and do not apply. If however, other sites are chosen or the
existing situation changes on these potential sites, OP 4.12 may apply.
Similarly, for the Construction of a new 100 bed student hostel for Thaba-Tseka
Technical Institute (TTI), the provisions of OP 4.12 would also apply whether or not the
Bank funds this activity. At the time of preparation of this RPF, the consultant who
prepared it visited the TTI and the proposed sites for this facility. Both sites were fenced
off and are part of the existing complex facility of the TTI and at that time there were no
other users of the sites other than the TTI.
However, at the time the decision is made on which site the MoE Head Office Complex
and the new hostel block for TTI are to be built, a final determination on whether OP4.12
applies would have to be made based on the prevailing situation on the ground at that
time.
7



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP 11) APL PHASE 2
Furthermore, the policy applies to all affected and/or displaced persons regardless of the
total number affected, the severity of impact and whether or not they have legal title to
the land. Particular attention should be paid to the needs of vulnerable groups among
those affected and/or displaced; especially those below the poverty line; the land less,
the elderly, women and children, indigenous groups and ethnic minorities or other
affected and/or displaced persons who may not be protected through the Government of
Lesotho land compensation legislation.
In particular for ESDP II APL 2, the policy also requires that the implementation of
individual resettlement plans are a prerequisite for the implementation of the project
activities requiring land acquisition, that is before any construction activity starts to
ensure that displacement or restriction to access does not occur before necessary
measures for resettlement and compensation are in place. It is further required that
these measures include provision of compensation and of other assistance required for
relocation, prior to displacement, and preparation and provision of resettlement sites with
adequate facilities, where required. In particular, the taking of land and related assets
may take place only after compensation has been paid and where applicable,
resettlement sites, new homes, related infrastructure, public services and moving
allowances have been provided to affected and/or displaced persons. Furthermore,
where relocation or loss of shelter occurs, the policy further requires that measures to
assist the affected and/or displaced persons are implemented in accordance with the
resettlement plan of action.
In this project, in order to make primary education accessible to all Basotho children the
MoE will establish new schools in communities. The need for such schools may be
identified by the MoE through a school mapping exercise or by local communities
themselves. Whether a local community request a school in their location or the MoE
identifies a community for a new school, all school sites would be identified by the local
communities themselves based on a set of criteria set by the MoE which include that the
site should ideally be located within 500m of a settlement area, be at least 20,000m2 in
area and not within 3km in radius from another school. Therefore, land selection and
acquisition will have to be done in a way that satisfies these guidelines. It is anticipated
that in most cases this can be done without impacts on people, land, property and
livelihoods. But, because of the mountainous terrain in Lesotho in general, but more so
in Thaba-Tseka, where this project is targeting for increased school construction, there
is at present a scarcity of suitable land for grazing , subsistence farming and for
residential purposes in some areas. It would therefore not be possible in all cases to
avoid impacts on people, land and property. When this happens, resettlement and
compensation-cannot be avoided and OP 4.12 will be triggered even though-those
affected may not have to physically niove to another location.
It is particularly important to neutralize to the extent possible any socio-economic
pressures in the communities that are likely to be exacerbated by involuntary
resettlement, by facilitating the participation of those impacted in the construction
activities. Therefore, offering impacted people the opportunity to continue to participate
in the planning process that would lead to the preparation of Resettlement Plans is
mandatory and Section L of this RPF deals with this requirement.
Also, offering impacted people the opportunity for employment during the construction of
the schools, will provide additional income generating opportunities to a significant
number of impacted persons who may potentially have to be resettled. Therefore, the
8



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
opportunity for employment of affected people by local building contractors is being
taken advantage of in this RPF, by including it for discussion in the consultative process
with the local communities.
Furthermore, it is worthy to note that rush migration to selected land/sites and forest
areas may occur by those wishing to take advantage of the rules of eligibility described
earlier in this Section. Were this to happen it would bring to bear additional pressures on
the whole planning process and compensation budgets. This has major considerations
therefore when establishing the cut-off dates.
A major object of this RPF is to ensure that affected individuals and households, and
affected and/or displaced communities are meaningfully consulted, have participated in
the planning process, are adequately compensated to the extent that at least their pre-
displacement incomes have been restored and that the process has been a fair and
transparent one.
C. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROCESS FOR PREPARING AND APPROVING
RESETTLEMENT PLANS.
As stated earlier, the World Bank policy oh Involuntary Resettlement OP 4.12 is
triggered because the ESDP II APL 2 Project will finance the construction of new
schools and the expansion of others thereby requiring land acquisition potentially
leading in a minority of cases to loss, denial or restriction of access to economic
resources. Since the location of these sites were not known at the time of the
preparation of the project, the preparation and disclosure of this RPF is a conditionality
for appraisal of this project. However, during implementation of this project, in a process
defined here below, the selection of these sites would be made. When that happens,
land would be acquired or access to economic resources may be lost, denied or
restricted and people may then be affected. At that stage, OP 4.12 calls for the
preparation of individual Resettlement Plans that must be consistent with this RPF.
To address the impacts under this policy, resettlement plans must include measures to
ensure that the affected and/or displaced persons are;
(a)   informed about their options and rights pertaining to resettlement.
(b)   consulted on, offered choices among, and provided with technically and
economically feasible resettlement alternatives.
(c)   And provided prompt and effective compensation at full replacement cost
for losses of assets and access attributable to the project.
The modus operandi for the identification of areas for construction of schools
would be either of two ways:
(1) The MoE will identify using the results of the school mapping exercise
areas that need new primary schools or expansion of existing
secondary schools,
And/or,
9



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP 11) APL PHASE 2
(2) The local communities will identify their heeds and approach the MoE
for approval for a school to be built in their community by this project.
It is worthy to note that throughout Lesotho today, many communities
have identified this need and have not waited for funds from central
government to build their schools. They have gone ahead with the
blessing of the MoE and are operating schools under trees or tents in
their communities on sites that they have already earmarked for
school construction should they be approved for funding or secure
their own funds. A number of these sites in Thaba-Tseka were visited
during the consultations by the consultant who prepared this RPF.
None of the sites visited, appeared to have triggered OP4.12 at that
time.
Therefore, the request to finance the construction of a new school will be made by either
the MoE or the Local Community.
But, the decision whether to approve or not approve the construction of a new primary
school or the expansion of a existing secondary school in any area will be taken by the
MoE subiect the final approval of the World Bank.
The decision on the exact land on which the approved new primary school will be
constructed and any additional land required for expansion of secondary schools will be
made by the local community represented by their elected steering committee.
Once the school mapping exercise is completed, the MoE will sensitize local
communities in areas where it wants to build new schools on the land acquisition
process and grievance procedures. Local communities would also be requested to
submit their proposals for new schools to the PSCU of the MoE.
A community that applies for establishment of a new school in its locality will be
represented by an elected Steering Committee (SC). Where the MoE has identified a
need for a new school, the local community will still be mobilized to elect a steering
committee for that purpose. The steering committee will register the names of all primary
school going age children in the catchment villages, their ages and the standards
(grades) they will be in the following year. The Steering committee will propose a
suitable site for the new school in the locality based on the following criteria which would
have been given to them by the MoE. Once the SC has identified their site, the MoE
officers in the EFU (Education Facilities Unit) will inspect the site and determine the
feasibility and the suitability of the same using the screening criteria below.
Land Selection Screening
* The site should normally not be within 3 (three) kilometers of an established
school that has at least three classrooms (excluding a church hall).
* The site should ideally be located within 500meters of a settlement area.
* There should be a sustainable source of potable water within 1km of the site.
10



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
*  The site should be at least 20,000m2 in size.
* The site owners and/or users if any are consulted and are invited to participate in
the activities of the local community regarding the school.
* The outer boundaries of the site should be clearly marked and the length of the
sides should be measured in meters.
* There should not be any natural or manmade features on the site that could
make construction difficult or that could pose danger to building structures or
humans such as bedrock, gullies, water pipes, swamps, floodplains and rock
falls.
* There should not be any natural or man made features within 100 meters of the
site that could pose danger to pupils once the school is established, e.g. very
steep cliffs, electricity pylons, etc.
*  Ideally there should be at least 100 households in the lowlands and 50
households in the highlands that would provide a catchment for the school.
These should exclude villages in which there are established schools.
* The Local Development Committee should agree to release the Land for
establishment of the school. That is to say that the site must conform to and be
consistent with the local development plan for that area.
* The site should not lead to either the physical displacement of people, loss of
their shelter, loss of assets, loss of income sources or means of livelihood, or
their loss, denial or restriction of access to economic resources. If it does impact
any one of these, chose another site. If this is not possible then OP 4.12 is
triggered and those affected must be compensated.
If the MoE determines that the site is suitable because it satisfies the criteria above, then
the school would be approved for funding. If the site does not meet the criteria above the
SC will be advised to look for another site until a site is found that satisfies the screening
criteria. The EFU will assist the SC if they so request that assistance.
If however the chosen site is suitable but triggers OP 4.12 and there is no feasible
alternative to chose another suitable site that does not trigger OP4.12, then the MoE will
approve the site subject to the SC preparing and fully and completely implementing a
resettlement and compensation plan (RAP). The preparation of the RAP will be
preceded by the conduct of a minor socio-economic study. The SC will be assisted by
service providers to prepare the socio-economic study and the RAP.
The purpose of the socio-economic study will be to collect baseline data within the
chosen site thereby enabling the social assessment of potentially affected
populations/communities. The socio-economic study would focus on the identification of
stake holders (demographic data), the participation process, identification of affected
people (including owners and users of land) and baseline information on livelihoods and
income, in addition to land holding.



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
On completion of the socio-economic study, the resettlement and compensation plan
(RAP) will be prepared for each location that triggers OP 4.12.
The requirements of the RAP are;
(a) Baseline census and socio-economic survey information
(b) Specific compensation rates and standards
(c) Policy entitlements related to any additional impacts identified through the
census or survey
(d) A description of the resettlement sites and programs for improvement or
restoration of livelihoods and standards of living
(e) Implementation schedule for resettlement and compensation activities
(f) Detailed costs estimates.
The RAP is to be prepared by the SC on behalf of the local community.
The RAP would then be screened by the EFU ,and the MoE will be responsible for
approving the RAP . The RAP will also be subject to the final approval of the World Bank
to ensure compliance with OP4.12 and ensure that before construction of schools is
approved, individual resettlement and compensation plans are prepared consistent with
this RPF.
Capacity will be built at the EFU of the MoE through training and the SC will be provided
with technical assistance to ensure all stakeholders involved play their different roles,
effectively. This would be build capacity at the community level which is crucial the
success of this project.
D.    LAND ACQUISITION AND LIKELY CATEGORIES OF IMPACT
At this stage it is not possible to estimate the likely number of people who may be
affected since the sites for these new schools have not yet been identified.
However, the likely affected and/or displaced persons can be categorized into these 3
groups, namely;
(i) Affected Individual - An individual who suffers loss of assets or investments,
land and property and/or access to natural and/or economical resources as a
result of the project activities and to whom compensation is due. For example, an
affected individual is a person who farms a land, pastoralists whose routes have
been altered, or a person who has built a structure on land that has been
demarcated and is now required by the project.
(ii) Affected Household - a household is affected if one or more of its members is
affected by project activities, either by loss of property, land, loss of access or
otherwise affected in any way by project activities. This provides for:
(a) any members in the households, men, women, children, dependent relatives
and friends, tenants
(b) vulnerable individuals who may be too old or ill to farm along with the others
(c) members of households who cannot reside together because of cultural
rules, but who depend on one another for their daily existence
12



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
(d) members of households who may not eat together but provide housekeeping,
or reproductive services critical to the family's maintenance, and
(e) other vulnerable people who cannot participate for physical or cultural
reasons in production, consumption, or co-residence.
In the local culture, members of production, consumption, and co-resident groups form
overlapping, often incongruent sets of people who may exchange domestic or farming
services on a regular basis even though living separately.
Compensation will not be limited to people who live together in a co-resident group,
since this might leave out people whose labor contributions are critical to the functioning
of the "household".
(iii) Vulnerable Households - vulnerable households may have different land
needs from most households or needs unrelated to the amount of land available to
them. This provides for;
a)    unmarried women - may be dependent on sons, brothers, or others
for support. Since an affected individual is able to name the person
with whom s/he is linked in dependency as part of the household,
resettlement will never sever this link.
b)    Elderly - elderly people farm as long as they are able. Their
economic viability does not depend on how much land they farm or
how much they produce because, by producing even small amounts
of food to "exchange" with others, they can subsist on cooked food
and generous return gifts of cereal from people such as their relatives
and neighbors. Losing land will not affect their economic viability.
They will have cash or in-kind replacements to exchange. For future
production they need access to only a small parcel of land. What
would damage their economic viability is resettlement that separates
them from the person or household on whom they depend for their
support. The definition of household by including dependents avoids
this.
c)    Boys - In Lesotho, the school enrollment rate for  boys is
considerably less than for girls for the simple reason that boys are
requested to attend to or look after farm animals for their parents and
are thus forced to miss school. The GoL is taking steps to sensitize
communities to adopt measures that meet both the needs of the
parents and the need for boys to go to school. Particular attention
should therefore be paid to the need for boys from affected
households to  address this issue  successfully. The  future
consequences of having a society of uneducated men can be far
reaching.
d)    Women - may depend on husbands, sons, brothers or others for
support. In many cases too, women are the main breadwinner in their
household. They need relatively easy access to health service
facilities, as mothers and wives. They should not be resettled in a way
that separates them from their households as the very survival of their
households may depend on them. Their compensation must take into
account all these factors.
13



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
e)    Small-scale female farmers- are also vulnerable because they may
not have men available within the household to carry out male specific
land preparation tasks such as ringing trees. Either male relatives in
other households help them voluntarily, or they hire men for cash,
beer (locally brewed) or food. Land compensation specifically includes
the labor costs of preparing a new land, so these women are provided
for by the compensation plan.
f)    Non-farming females- these earn income from other sources and/or
depend on relatives for "exchanges" of staple foods. Since they do not
farm they will not be affected by the sub-projects need for agricultural
land. If a building of theirs lies on land needed by a subproject, they
will receive replacement cost compensation. If someone on whom
they depend is resettled, they are protected because the resettler can
name them as part of the household.
These household types are not mutually exclusive, for example an elderly woman may
be unmarried (or widowed).
E. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR DEFINING VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF PROJECT
AFFECTED PERSONS
The Bank's OP4.12 suggests the following three criterion for eligibility;
a)    Those who have formal rights to land (including customary land
traditional and religious rights, recognized under Lesotho Law.
b)    Those who do not have formal legal rights to land at the time the census
begins but have a claim to such land or assets provided that such claims
are recognized under the laws of Lesotho or become recognized through
a process identified in the resettlement plan.
c)    Those who lose other economic resources such as trees, agricultural
produce on cultivated fields, etc, and or have their access to these
economic resources denied or restricted.
d)    Those who have no recognizable legal right or claim to the land they are
occupying, using or getting their livelihood from.
Those covered under a) and b) above are to be provided compensation for the land they
lose, and other assistance in accordance with the policy. Persons in category c) are
compensated for loss of economic resources in accordance with this RPF. Persons
covered under d) above are to be provided with resettlement assistance in lieu of
compensation for the land they occupy, and other assistance, as necessary, to achieve
the objectives set out in this policy, if they occupy the project area prior to a cut-off date
established by the EFU in close consultation with the SC's, subject to "no objection" of
the Bank.
Persons who encroach on the area after the cut-off date are not entitled to compensation
or any other form of resettlement assistance. All persons included in a), b) or c) above
are to be provided with compensation for loss of assets other than land.
14



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
Therefore, it is clear that all affected persons irrespective of their status or whether they
have formal titles, legal rights or not, squatters or otherwise encroaching illegally on
land, are eligible for some kind of assistance if they occupied the land before the
entitlement cut-off date. Persons who encroach the area after the socio-economic study
(census and valuation) are not eligible for compensation or any form of resettlement
assistance.
Eligibility for Community Compensation
Communities ( districts, towns and villages) permanently losing land and/or access to
assets under customary rights will be eligible for compensation.
Method to Determine the Cut - Off Dates
When the respective school site has been selected by the SC , the EFU and the SC,
will meet to discuss and agree on a programme of implementation. They will also choose
tentative cut-off dates. The dates would then be communicated to the community
through their SC.
The entitlement cut-off date refers to the time when the assessment of persons and their
property in the project area (i.e. the new school site) is carried out, i.e. the time when the
site for the new school has been identified and when the site specific socio-economic
study is taking place. Thereafter, no new cases of affected people will be considered.
The establishment of a cut-off date is required to prevent opportunistic invasions/rush
migration into the chosen land areas thereby posing a major risk to the project.
Therefore, establishment of a cut-off date is of critical importance. The SC's will pay a
crucial role in identifying users of land since most of them would have acquired their
customary rights to use the land from their local customary heads.
F. A LEGAL FRAMEWORK COMPARING THE BORROWER LAWS AND
REGULATIONS WITH THE BANK POLICY REQUIREMENTS AND
MEASURES PROPOSED TO BRIDGE ANY GAPS BETWEEN THEM.
The Kingdom of Lesotho is a sovereign democratic kingdom.
Administratively, Lesotho is divided into 10 districts, namely, Maseru (capital city),
Mafeteng, Mohale's Hoek, Quthing, Qacha's Nek, Thaba Tseka, Mokhotlong, Butha-
Buthe, Teyateyaneng, and Hlotse (Leribe).
The Administrative Head of each district is known as the District Administrator (DA).
The Districts are further divided into Local Authorities, which are sub divided into
Municipal Councils, Urban Councils, Rural Councils and Community Councils.
There is established a District Planning Unit for each administrative district whose
functions are, inter alia, to provide planning services for the Councils within its district
and to finalize the District Development Plan consistent with the overall National
Development Plan .
15



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
Throughout the history of Lesotho, there has been a system of local administration
under Chiefs and Principal Chiefs that have been recognized under customary law.
Land Tenure and Ownership in the Kingdom of Lesotho
The Constitution of Lesotho (1993)
The 1993 Constitution of Lesotho is the supreme law of Lesotho states in Article 108,
section (1) that all land is inalienable and is vested in the King in trust for the Basotho
Nation and the power vested in the King shall be exercised in accordance with this
conctitution and any other law.
The Land Act 1979
The Land Act 1979 provides for:
(a)   the grant of title to land
(b)   the conversion of titles to land
(c)   the declaration of selected development areas and selected agricultural
areas and titles to land therein
(d)   the setting aside of land for use for public purposes
(e)   the establishment of a land tribunal
(f)   the grant of public servitudes.
In Part 1, the act states-that no other person other than the King, shall hold any title to
land except as provided for under customary law or under this act and where the
customary law is inconsistent with this act, this Act shall prevail.
Customary Law as defined in the constitution means the customary law of Lesotho for
the time being in force subject to any modification or other provision made in respect
thereof by any Act of Parliament.
The power to grant titles to land, to grant or create servitudes, to revoke or derogate
from an allocation made under the Act, to terminate or revoke a lease, license or
servitude is vested in the king, as head of state, in trust for the Basotho people and shall
be exercised as provided for under the act.
In Part 2, the Act provides for land held under allocation, Part 3 Section 1 provides for
grant of title to land in Urban Areas and Part 3 section 2 provides for Conversion of
certain titles to land in Urban and Rural Areas. Part 4 provides for granting of leases and
licenses.
Land in Lesotho can therefore be held under four types of tenure;
* Land Held under Allocation - is made in respect of land which is not the subject
of a registrable title, shall not be transferable and shall, subject to power of
revocation, entitle the allottee to use or use and occupy the land for the purpose
stated in the allocation for a period which in the case of a corporate body or
unincorporated may be a limited or indefinite period or in the case of an
16



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP li) APL PHASE 2
individual, may be a limited period or his lifetime but shall not endure beyond his
lifetime.
*  Land Held under Lease is created either by contract or by operation of the law
and is a form under which the landlord of lessor grants the tenant or lessee
exclusive possession of the land, usually for a period defined and in return for a
rent. The tenant has security of tenure and a proprietary interest in the land.
*  Land Held under License
*  Land Held under Customary Law - Customary rights among the Basotho in the
project area are, on the whole, similar. Most of the people belong to one, over-
arching ethnic group, the Basothos. Under Customary Law, a village controls a
certain amount of land whose boundaries are not precise in the surveyor's sense,
but nevertheless are widely accepted. These boundaries contain the village, its
farmlands and fallow, and regularly exploited bush. Bush that is not regularly
used by any village does not belong to anyone and is available for use by
anyone. Anyone wishing to farm in uncontrolled bush should ask permission of
the village chief.
The act provides in subsequent parts for selected development and selected agricultural
areas, Land required for public purposes, the establishment of a Land Tribunal, Land
Revenue, Public Servitutdes and Compensation thereof, Duties of the commissioner of
lands, Grants of titles to lands, Miscellaneous provisions and Amendments, Repeals and
Savings.
The Education Act 1995
The Education Act 1995 regulates the Education Sector in Lesotho by providing for the
Registration of Schools, Management of Schools, Establishment of the National
Curriculum Committee, Teaching Services etc.
The Environment Act 2001
The Environment Act 2001 provides for the management of the environment and all
natural resources of Lesotho and for all connected matters. The key features of the act
are Part Il: General Principles, Part III: Institutional Arrangements, Part IV:
Environmental Planning, Part V: Environmental Impact Assessment, Audits and
Monitoring, Part VI: Environmental Quality Standards, Part VII: Pollution Control, Part
VIII: Environmental Management, Part IX: Environmental Restoration Order, Part X:
Inspection, Analysis and Record, Part XI: International Environmental Conventions, Part
XII: Information, Education and Public Awareness, Part Xil: Financial Provisions, Part
XIV: Environmental Tribunal and Part XV: Offences.
Section 5 of the Act establishes the National Environment Council which consists mainly
of government ministers and whose main function is the formulation of environmental
policy, national goals and objectives pursuant to the Act. Section 9 of the act establishes
of the Lesotho Environment Authority whose main functions shall be the principal
agency for the management of the environment, to co-ordinate, monitor and supervise
17



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                             RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
all sectoral activities of the field of environment and be responsible for the
implementation of the national environmental policy.
At the time of preparation of the project the Lesotho Environment Authority was not yet
established. To a larger extent, the functions and responsibilities of the Lesotho
Environment Authority were being carried out by an overstretched, understaffed and
under funded National Environment Secretariat.
Comparison between Land Law in Lesotho and Bank OP4.12
Whereas the law     relating to Land administration in     Lesotho is wide and varied,
entitlements for payment of compensation are essentially based on right of ownership (
i.e. allocation and land titles and and/or customary ownership). The Bank OP is
fundamentally different from this and states that affected persons are entitled to some
form of compensation whether or not they have legal title if they occupy the land by a cut
-off date.
Therefore, all land to be acquired by the SC's for this project would be so acquired
subject to the Laws of Lesotho and the Bank OP4.12. Where, there is conflict, the Bank
OP 4.12 must take precedence and the purpose for this is to ensure that no project
affected person is poorer after the project than he or she was before the project and
indeed reducing poverty and improving the living conditions of people in the project area.
Comparison of Lesotho Law and World Bank OP4.12 regarding compensation
Category of PAPS/ Type of Lost  Lesotho Law                  World Bank OP4.12
Assets
Land Owners                    Cash compensation based upon  Recommends         land-for-land
market value of unimproved land.  compensation. Other compensation
is at replacement cost.
Land Tenants                   Entitled to compensation based  Are entitled to some form  of
upon the amount of rights they  compensation whatever the legal
hold upon land                recognition of their occupancy.
Land Users                     Not entitled to compensation for Entitled to compensation for crops,
land, entitled to compensation for may be entitled to replacement land
crops.                         and income must be restored to
pre-proje t levels at least.
Owners   of  "Non  permanent"  Silent on this issue          Entitled to in-kind compensation or
Buildings                                                    cash   compensation   at  full
replacement cost including labor
and relocation expenses, prior to
displacement.
Owners of "Permanent" buildings  Valuation based on depreciated  Entitled to in-kind compensation or
market value.                  cash   compensation  at  full
replacement cost including labor
and relocation expenses, prior to
displacement.
Perennial Crops                Cash  compensation  based  on  As per section G of this RPF once
market value                   approved  by  the  Bank  and
disclosed in Lesotho and at the
Bank infoshop.
18



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                     RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
G. METHODS OF VALUING AFFECTED ASSETS.
Valuations methods for affected land and assets would depend on the type of asset. The
three land asset types identified under Lesotho law in this policy framework are;
i)    State owned land vested in the King
ii)   Assets held under Allocation
iii)  Assets held under Lease
iv)   Assets held under License
v)    Assets held under Customary Law
The SC's ( the corporate body on behalf of the local community causing resettlement
impact) would compensate for assets and investments , including labor, crops, buildings,
and other improvements, according to the provisions of the resettlement and
compensation plan. Compensation rates would be market rates as of the date and time
that the replacement is to be provided.
Under customary law land belongs to chiefdoms, towns and villages. However, because
the bank policy on resettlement and compensation , OP4.12, makes no distinction
between   statute and customary rights, not only assets and investments will be
compensated for, but also land. Thus, a customary land owner or land user on state
owned land, will be compensated for land, assets, investments, loss of access etc. at
market rates at the time of the loss.
Compensation Payments and Related Considerations.
Individual and household compensation will be made in cash, in kind, and/or through
assistance. The type of compensation will be an individual choice although every effort
will be made to instill the importance and preference of accepting in kind compensation if
the loss amounts to more that 20% of the total loss of subsistence assets.
FORMS OF COMPENSATION
Cash Payments        ~~Compensation will be calculated in Maloti. Rates will be
Cash Payments                adjusted for inflation.
Compensation may include items such as land, houses, other
In-kind Compensation         buildings, building materials, seedlings, agricultural Inputs
and financial credits for equipment.
Assistance                   Assistance may include 'moving allowance, transportatlon
Assistance           ~~~and labor
Making compensation payments raises some issues regarding inflation, security and
timing that must be considered. One purpose of providing in-kind compensation is to
reduce inflationary pressures on the costs of goods and services. Local inflation may still
occur, thus market prices will be monitored within the time period that compensation is
being made to allow for adjustments in compensation values.
Compensation for Land
Compensation for land is aimed at providing a farmer whose land is acquired and used
for project purposes with compensation for land, labor and crop loss. For this reason,
and for transparency, a "Land" is defined as an area
19



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP 11) APL PHASE 2
*  In cultivation
*  Beirig prepared for cultivation, or
* Cultivated during the last agricultural season
This definition recognizes that the biggest investment a farmer makes in producing a
crop is his of her labor. A farmer works on his/her land most of the months of the year.
The major input for producing a crop is not seed or fertilizer, but the significant labor put
into the land each year by the farmer. As a result, compensation relating to land will
cover the market price of labor invested as well as the market price of the crop lost.
A farmer who loses land will be compensated in-kind by the SC by providing him/her
with another land of equal size, market value and within relatively the same travel
distance in the local community. In the absence of this, the farmer who loses land will
be compensated in cash at the market value of the land lost to assist him/her acquire
new land upon which to farm. This process would be done consistent with the delivery of
emoluments and all other processes described in this RPF.
Land measurement
For the purposes of measuring land, the unit of measurement would be that which is
used by and understood by the affected farmers. Therefore, if a traditional unit of
measurement exist, thatLunit will be used. If a traditional unit of measurement does not
exist, then it is recommended that land will be measured in meters or any other
internationally accepted unit of measurement. However, in such an event, the unit that is
being used must be explained to the affected farmers and must somehow be related to
easily recognizable land features that the farmers are familiar with, such as using
location of trees, stumps, etc. as immovable pegs. The most important concern of this
exercise is to ensure that the affected farmer is able to verify using his/her own
standards/units of measurement, the size of land that is being lost. Ensuring that this
occurs maintains transparency in the system and will thus avoid subsequent accusations
of wrong measurements or miscalculation of areas.
Calculation of Crops Compensation Rate
The current prices for cash crops would have to be determined. All crops to be
compensated using a single market value rate, for each crop grown. This rate
incorporates the value of crops and the value of the labor invested in preparing a new
land. Determining compensation using a single rate per crop creates transparency
because anyone can measure the area of land for which compensation is due and
multiply that by a single rate known to all. This approach also allows assignment of
values to previous year's land (land in which a farmer has already invested labor) and
land that have been planted but have not yet sprouted. The value of the labor invested in
preparing agricultural land will be compensated at the average wage in the community
for the same period of time. The rate used for land compensation is to be updated to
reflect values at the time compensation is paid. The following example, which is based
on 2002 data, derives a total value for a one hectare land from the value of the crops on
the land and the value of labor invested in preparing a replacement land.
20



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                       RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
EXAMPLE OF METHOD TO BE USED TO DETERMINE A COMPENSATION RATE FOR LAND*
(Based on 2002 data. Maloti payments will be revised to reflect crop values and labor rates in effect at the time of
compensation)
Item Compensated             Basis of Value               Maloti /ha
Average of the highest 2002 official
Value of Crops      and market survey land prices per
ha of staple food crops ( corn
etc.),plus cash crops (e.g. maize,
sorghoum).
Labor Invested  Labor costs of preparing a
Labor Invested      replacement land.
Total            Replacement value of crops plus
labor.
Note: This example assumes a one-hectare land.
Crop values will be determined based on:
* A combination of staple foods and cash crops. Specifically, the 80/20 ratio of land
that a farmer typically has in food crops and cash crops is used to determine the
chances s/he would lose food crop rather than a cash crop income.
* The value of stable crops to be taken as the highest market price reached during
the year, in recognition of these factors:
-      Although  most farmers   grow  staple  crops  mainly for home
consumption, they always have the option of selling these crops to
take advantage of the market.
Farmers most often purchase cereals when they have run out, during
the "hungry season" when prices are high. Compensating at a lower
value might put the individual or household at risk.
Averaging the highest price of stable foods yields a high per ha value
that reimburses for the vegetables and other foods that are commonly
inter-cropped with staples, but are almost impossible to measure for
compensation.
* The labor cost for preparing replacement land is calculated on what it would cost
a farmer to create a replacement land. This value is found by adding together the
average costs of clearing, plowing, sowing, weeding twice, and harvesting the
crop. Labor costs will be paid in Maloti, at the prevailing market rates.
The following table presents an example of a compensation schedule for a one-
hectare land. The Maloti values are based on arbitrary labor rates , which will need
to be validated at the time payments are made.
EXAMPLE OF LAND COMPENSATION SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS
21



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                      RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
Activity                Month Paid             Labor in Maloti Iha
Rate Cost/day x no. of days
Clear                    March
Plough                    May
Sow                      May
Weed                      May
Harvest                 November
Total
*Please confirm that these are the months during which these activities are carried out in the Southern Hemisphere.
All agricultural labor activities are included for two reasons. First, because of the need
for transparency, all land labor will be compensated for at the same rate. Second, it is
difficult to forecast when during the growing season a farmer might need to give up
his/her land. Thus, the land compensation covers all investments that a farmer will
make. In certain cases, assistance may be provided to land users in addition to
compensation payments, for example, if the farmer is notified that his/her land is needed
after the agriculturally critical date of March, when s/he will no longer have enough time
to prepare another land without help. Assistance will be provided in the form of labor
intensive village hire, or perhaps mechanized clearing, so that replacement land will be
ready by the sowing dates. The farmer will still continue to receive his/her cash
compensation so that /s/he can pay for sowing, weeding and harvesting.
Compensation for Buildings and Structures.
Compensation will be paid by replacing structures such as huts, houses, farm
outbuildings, latrines and fences. Any homes lost will be rebuilt on acquired replacement
land, however cash compensation would be available as a preferred option for structures
( i.e. extra buildings) lost, that are not the main house or house in which someone is
living. The going market prices for construction materials will be determined.
Alternatively, compensation will be paid in-kind for the replacement cost without
depreciation of the structure. The project will survey these prices for administrative
purposes on an ongoing basis.
Compensation will be made for structures that are:
* Exist on land which will be acquired for project purposes or are
* Directly damaged by construction activities.
Replacement values will be based on:
* Drawings of individual's household and all its related structures and support
services,
* Average replacement costs of different types of household buildings and
structures based on collection of information on the numbers and types of
materials used to construct different types of structures (e.g. bricks, rafters,
bundles of straw, doors etc.) For vulnerable groups identified in earlier section of
this RPF replacement values will be based on actual replacement cost.
* Prices of these items collected in different local markets,
22



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                               RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP 11) APL PHASE 2
*   Costs for transportation and delivery of these items to acquired/replacement land
or building site,
*   Estimates of construction of new buildings including labor required.
COMPENSATION FOR BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
Buildings and structures will be replaced by an equivalent structure or, on an exception basis, cash and/or credits will be
paid based on replacement costs.
Item                          Example
House                         Raw or Baked brick
Straw or tin roof
Varying sizes (small, medium large)
Kitchen                       Open, closed
Stables/sheds/pens            Cattle, goat, pig, sheep, other
Coops                         Chicken, duck, other
Fence                         Straw/poles (per unit poles & mat), raw and/or baked brick/cement blocks (per 1-
m length)
Private Bathing
Latrine                       Replacement latrines will be similar to those currently operational and flnanced by
the bank at health centers, schools.
Open well                     Internally lined with concrete rings and provided with a hand driven pump
Storage building              Cement/sand block walls with thatched roof on z-profiled metal sheets.
Sun Screen open huts/shades   Similar to those replaced, on thatched roof on wood poles.
Compensation for Sacred Sites
Sacred sites include but not restricted only to altars, initiation centers, ritual sites, tombs,
cemeteries. It includes other such sites or places/features that are accepted by local
laws (including customary), practice, tradition and culture as sacred. To avoid any
possible conflicts between individuals and/or communities the use of sacred sites for any
project activity, is not permitted under this project.
Compensation for vegetable gardens and beehives
These are planted with vegetable and ingredients for daily use. Until a replacement
garden starts to bear, the family displaced as a result of the project land needs will have
to purchase these items in the market. The replacement costs therefore, will be
calculated based on the average amount that an average town dweller spends on buying
these items for one year per adult from the local market.
Beehives are placed in various locations in the bush by some individuals that specialize
in honey gathering. If such hives would be disturbed by the project activities, or access
to hives is denied, beekeepers can move them, and the bees will adapt to the new
locations. Beekeepers would be compensated by the value of one season's production
costs of honey for each hive that is moved and any reasonable costs associated with
moving the hive.
Compensation for trees
Peach and Apricot Trees
23



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                       RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
Peach and Apricot trees are the primary fruit tree in the project targeted area and are
estimated to account for a significant amount of all fruit bearing trees. They are primarily
important as a source of:
* Subsistence food for families
* Petty market income in some areas, and
* Shade.
Given their significance to the local subsistence economy, which this project intends to
positively impact, peach and apricot trees will be compensated on a combined
replacement/market value. These fruit trees used for commercial purposes will be
compensated at market value based on historical production records. If households
chose to resettle, they will be compensated for the labor invested in the trees they leave
behind, because they will continue to own the trees left behind under customary rights. It
is not uncommon for individuals to own trees in other villages in which they formally lived
and, in some cases, to continue to harvest fruit from- those trees for subsistence
purposes and/or sale to traders. If a household chooses to transfer ownership of the
trees, transfer costs will be paid in addition to labor costs. The compensation rate will be
based on information obtained from the socio-economic study. From this study, a
compensation schedule for peach and mango trees can be developed incorporating the
following goals:
*  Replace subsistence peach and apricot production yields as quickly as possible.
*  Provide subsistence farmers with trees to extend the number of months of the
year during which mangoes are produced and can be harvested as a
supplemental source of food for their families during their "hungry season".
*  Provide farmers with the opportunity to derive additional production income from
trees bearing more valuable fruits at off-season periods.
*  Provide cash payments to farrmers to replace pre-project income derived from the
sale of excess peach and apricot production until replacement trees produce the
equivalent (or more) in projected cash income.
The compensation schedule is based on providing a combination of new grafted and
local trees to farmers, as well as cash payments to offset lost yearly income. The
schedule could assume the following (the figures in Maloti (Xno.) to be determined in
the socio-economic study):
Local Peach and Apricot
Estimated Avg. Fruit Yield (kg) of Mature tree  200 to 600 kg/year
Estimated Yield used                     Ten sacks(1,000kg)/tree/year
Market Price,
*  Height of harvest season (March/April)  Maloti/kg
*  End of season (late May)           Maloti/kg
Price used as basis of this estimate     80% height of season;20% end of season
Years to Production                     two to three
Years to Maximum Production              Ten
Costs of Sapling                         Maloti, locally available.
24



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP 11) APL PHASE 2
H.    ORGANIZATIONAL       PROCEDURES       FOR   THE    DELIVERY     OF
ENTITLEMENTS, THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE GOVERNMENT,
AND THE PRIVATE DEVELOPER.
Compensation (and resettlement) will be funded like any other activity eligible under the
projects administrative and financial management rules and manuals .
Funding would be processed and effected through the. Project Support Coordination Unit
(PSCU) in the Ministry of Education (MoE) and will comply with the financial
arrangements agreed upon at project appraisal.
The compensation process which will involve several steps would be in accordance with
the individual project resettlement and compensation plans, significantly;
*  Public Participation with the local communities would initiate the compensation
process as part of an ongoing process that would have started at the land
selection/screening stage with the SC or when the community came together to
request the school and also at the time the socio-economic assessment is being
carried. This would ensure that no affected individual/household is simply
"notified" one day that they are affected in this way. Instead, this process seeks
their involvement and wishes to inform communities in a participatory approach
with the project, from the beginning as outlined in item k. of this report.
*  Notification of land resource holders - the respective SC having been involved
in identifying the Jand it requires will notify the local chief and village inhabitants
who will help to identify and locate the property users. The users will be informed
through both a formal notification in writing and, for as many people are illiterate,
by verbal notification delivered in the presence of the village chief or his
representative. In addition, the local chief, religious leaders, other elders and
individuals who control land will accompany the survey teams to identify sensitive
areas.
*  Documentation of Holdings and Assets - village and project officials to arrange
meetings with affected individuals and/or households to discuss the
compensation process. For each individual or household affected, the SC
officials completes a compensation dossier containing necessary personal
information on, the affected party and those that s/he claims as household
members, total land holdings, inventory of assets affected, and information for
monitoring their future situation. This information is confirmed and witnessed by
village officials and officials of the EFU. Dossiers will be kept current and will
include documentation of lands surrendered. Each individual will be provided a
copy of the dossier at the time of negotiations. This is necessary because it is
one way in which an individual can be monitored over time. All claims and assets
will be documented in writing.
* Agreement on Compensation, Awareness of Grievance Procedures, and
Preparation of Contracts - All types of compensation and grievance
procedures are clearly explained to the individual or household. The SC draws
up a contract, listing all property and land being surrendered, and the types of
compensation (cash and/or in-kind) selected. A person selecting in-kind
25



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
compensation has an order form which is signed and witnessed. The
compensation contract is read aloud in the presence of the affected party and the
EFU, the local chief ,village officials and other village leaders prior to signing.
Compensation Payments - All handing over of property such as land and
buildings and compensation payments will be made in the presence of the
affected party and the village officials.
Community Compensation Payments
Community compensation will be in-kind only for a community as a whole in the form of
reconstruction of the facility to at least the same standard or equivalent better standard
to that being built by local NGO's in the area to serve the same function. Examples of
community compensation include;
* Public Toilets
* Well or Pump
* Market Place
* Road
* Storage warehouse
No community project will be approved that requires the displacement of additional
persons for compensation or relocation.
1.    A DESCRIPTION     OF THE IMPLEMENTATION       PROCESS, LINKING
RESETTLEMENT IMPLEMENTATION TO CIVIL WORKS.
Before any project activity is implemented, people who are being affected by such
activity, will be compensated and grievances settled in accordance with the resettlement
policy framework. For projects involving land acquisition, it is further required that these
measures include provision of compensation, income restoration and of other assistance
required for relocation, prior to displacement, and preparation and provision of
resettlement sites with adequate facilities, where required. In particular, the taking of
land and related assets may take place only after compensation has been paid and,
where applicable, resettlement sites and moving allowances have been provided to
displaced persons. For project activity requiring relocation or loss of shelter, the policy
further requires that measures to assist the displaced persons are implemented in
accordance with the individual resettlement and compensation plan of action.
The measures to ensure compliance with this policy directive will be included in the
resettlement and compensation plans that will be prepared 'for each land involving
resettlement or compensation.  When the SC   present their resettlement and
compensation plans to the MoE for approval, part of the screening process that the EFU
will use to approve recommended sites will be to confirm that the resettlement and
compensation plans contain acceptable measures that link resettlement and
compensation activity to civil works in compliance with this policy. The timing mechanism
of these measures will ensure that no individual or affected household will be displaced
due to civil works activity before compensation is paid and resettlement sites with
adequate facilities are prepared and provided for to the individual or household affected.
Once the resettlement and compensation plan is approved by the local and national
26



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP 11) APL PHASE 2
government, the resettlement and compensation plan, will, at the discretion of the Bank,
be sent to the World Bank for final review and approval.
J.    A DESCRIPTION OF GRIEVANCE REDRESS MECHANISMS.
At the time that the individual resettlement and compensation plans are approved and
individual compensation contracts are signed, affected individuals would have been
informed of the process for expressing dissatisfaction and to seek redress.
The grievance procedure will be simple, administered as far as possible at the local level
to facilitate access, flexible and open to various proofs taking into cognizance the fact
most people are illiterate and poor requiring a speedy, just and fair resolution of their
grievances. The SC being a party to the contract would not be the best office to receive,
handle and rule on disputes. Therefore, taking these concerns into account , all
grievances concerning non-fulfillment of contracts, levels of compensation, or seizure of
assets without compensation will be addressed to the existing local courts system of
administration of justice in the Districts. Local NGO's will be engaged by the SC's to
mediate disputes.
All attempts would be made to settle grievances. Those seeking redress and wishing to
state grievances would so by notifying their village chief and the District Administrator
(DA). The DA will consult with the district local governments, village chiefs and elders
and other records to determine a claims validity. If valid, the village chief and SC will
notify the complainant and s/he will be settled.
*0
If the complainants claim is rejected, then the matter will be brought before the District
Land Tribunals and/or the local courts for settlement. If the matter cannot be settled by
the local courts and/or the District Land Tribunals, the matter will go the High Court for
resolution. The High Court of Lesotho will be the highest appellate "judge" in this
system. The decision of the High Court would be final and all such decisions must be
reached within a full growing season after the complaint is lodged.
If a complaint pattern emerges, the DA with the local governments, the EFU, SC's, and
village leaders will discuss possible remediation. The local leaders will be required to
give advice concerning the need for revisions to procedures. Once the DA, EFU, local
governments, and village leaders agree on necessary and appropriate changes, then a
written description of the changed process will be made. The DA, local governments,
SC, and village leaders will be responsible for communicating any changes to the
population.
In the local cultures it takes people time to decide that they are aggrieved and want to
complain . Therefore, the grievance procedures will give people up to the end of the
next full agricultural season after surrendering their assets to set forth their case.
K.    A   DESCRIPTION     OF   THE   ARRANGEMENTS        FOR   FUNDING
RESETTLEMENT       AND     COMPENSATION,        INCLUDING     THE
PREPARATION AND REVIEW OF COSTS ESTIMATES, THE FLOW OF
FUNDS, AND CONTINGENCY ARRANGEMENTS.
27



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                        RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
The estimate of the overall cost of resettlement and compensation would be determined
during the socio-economic study. The Steering Committee on behalf of the Local
Community that is causing resettlement and impacting livelihoods would have to finance
their resettlement and compensation plan.
The MoE through the ESDP 11 APL 2 will finance the technical assistance required to
strengthen the capacities of EFU and the SC's to fulfill their respective responsibilities as
outlined in this RPF and to facilitate the process necessary to seek the effective
participation of the local communities and affected people. This assistance will take the
form of training of key staff in the EFU and hiring of local NGO's to work with the SC's to
produce the RAP's and carry out the socio-economic studies required. The MoE will also
finance the SC's to monitor implementation of the RAP's.
At this stage, it is not possible to estimate the likely number of people who may be
affected since the sub-projects have not yet been identified. When these locations are
known, and after the conclusion of the site specific socio-economic study, information on
specific impacts, individual and household incomes and numbers of affected people and
other demographic data would be available, thus facilitating the preparation of a detailed
and accurate budget for resettlement and compensation.
Since it is the local community represented by their SC is the party causing resettlement
,the SC would be required to effect payments to the affected party or to finance any
other requirements in the resettlement and compensation plan, prior to funds being
released to build the new school. All payments would be made in Maluti.
The budget in the reseftlement and compensation plans will be subject to the approval
of the World Bank. -.
At this stage however, all that can be reasonably and meaningfully prepared is an
indicative budget, highlighting key features that the budget must contain, inter alia, as
follows;
Item                   Costs X (in            Assumptions
1   Compensation for loss of Land                        For land acquisition purposes, based
X/ /hectare  on cost realized in projects involving
similar issues in Lesotho.
2   Compensation for loss of Crops                       Includes costs of labor invested and
X /hectare of farm  average of highest price of staple food
lost      crops as per methods described in
Section G of this RPF
3   Compensation for Buildings and Structures            This compensation would be in-kind.
These new buildings would be built
and then given to those affected. Cost
X         based on basic housing needs for a
family of ten, including house with four
bedrooms, ventilated  pit latrines,
outside kitchen and storage.
4   Compensation for Trees                               Based on methods described on page
X /yearltree  27 of this RPF for compensation for
trees.
5   Cost of Relocation Assistance/Expenses  X /household  This cost is to facilitate transportation,
28



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                     RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
6  Cost of Restoration of Individual Income          Assumed to be higher than the
Say X   GDP/capita.
7  Cost of Restoration of Household Income  Say X    For household of ten.
8  Cost of Training Farmers                          This is a mitigation measure which
X        seeks to involve those affected in the
project activities. This figure represents
a costs of around $25/person
These costs are indicative only and must be confirmed during the socio-economic study and revised at
the time the payments are made.
L. A DESCRIPTION OF MECHANISMS FOR CONSULTATIONS WITH, AND
PARTICIPATION OF, DISPLACED PERSONS IN PLANNING,
IMPLEMENTATION, AND MONITORING.
Public consultation and participation are essential because they afford potentially
displaced persons the opportunity to contribute to both the design and implementation of
the project activities. The socio-economic situation prevailing in Lesotho as discussed
earlier, makes public consultation with the communities, indispensable. Furthermore, it is
the local communities who are to claim ownership of this project for it to be successful
and their wealth of knowledge of local conditions are invaluable assets to the project. In
recognition of this, particular attention would be paid to public consultation with
potentially affected individuals/households when resettlement and compensation
concerns are involved.
Public consultation will take place at the inception of the planning stages when the
development plans are being prepared. The participation strategy would evolve around
the provision of a full opportunity for involvement. This process would not be an isolated
one because of the very nature of the project, which through its implementation and
design ensures continuous public participation and involvement at the local level.
Therefore, as a matter of strategy, public consultation would be an on-going activity
taking place through out the entire project cycle. For example, public consultation would
also occur during the preparation of the; (i) during the school mapping exercise, (ii),
immediately after the project is effective when local communities are sensitize on the
project and for them to come together and make a request to the MoE to finance a
school in their communities, (iii) during the land identification, screening and selection
process (iv) the socio-economic study, (v) the resettlement and compensation plan and
(v) during the drafting and reading of the compensation contract.
Public participation and consultation would take place through meetings, radio programs,
request for written proposals/comments, filling in of questionnaires/forms, public
readings and explanations of project ideas and requirements, making public documents
available at the, district, town, and village levels at suitable locations like the official
residences/offices of local chiefs/elders. These measures would take into account the
low literacy levels prevalent in these communities by allowing enough time for responses
and feedback. All documents would also be disclosed at these locations in Sesotho and
English and meetings held with the communities would be Sesotho.
Notwithstanding, the best guarantor for public interest is the chiefs and other local
leaders who are responsible members of their local communities and can inadvertently
be part of the potentially displaced individuals/households either in part or in whole.
29



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP 11) APL PHASE 2
Monitoring of this process would be through the village chief as part of the individual
resettlement and compensation plans and overall the monitoring and evaluation
mechanism of the entire project.
This requirement is line with the Bank policy on disclosure.
M.    ARRANGEMENTS FOR MONITORING            BY THE IMPLEMENTATION
AGENCY AND, IF REQUIRED, BY INDEPENDENT MONITORS.
The arrangements for monitoring would fit the overall monitoring plan of the entire ESDP
11 APL 2 project which would be through the Project Support and Coordinating Unit
(PSCU) of the Ministry of Education. The PSCU will institute an administrative reporting
system that:
(a) alerts project authorities to the necessity for land acquisition,
(b) provides timely information about the valuation and negotiation process,
(c) reports any grievances that require resolution, and
(d) documents timely completion of project resettlement obligations ( i.e. payment of
the agreed-upon sums, construction of new structures, etc.) for all permanent
and temporary loses, as well as unanticipated, additional construction damage.
Consistent with the Environmental and Social Management Framework, the
Environmental and Social Officer in the EFU would be responsible for periodically
transferring the information compiled by the SC's to the EFU and hence the PSCU so
that it is alerted in a timely manner to any difficulties arising at the local level.
The objective will be to make a final evaluation in order to determine;
(i)  if affected people have been paid in full and before implementation of the
subproject,
(ii)  if the people who were affected by the project have been affected in such a
way that they are now living a higher standard than before, living at the
same standard as before, or they are they are actually poorer than
before.
A number of indicators would be used in order to determine the status of affected people
(land being used compared to before, standard of house compared to before, level of
participation in project activities compared to before, how many kids in school compared
to before, health standards, etc). Therefore, the resettlement and compensation plans
will set two major socio-economic goals by which to evaluate its success:
* Affected individuals, households, and communities are able to maintain their pre-
project standard of living, and even improve on it; and
* The local communities remain supportive of the project.
In order to access whether these goals are met, the resettlement and compensation
plans will indicate parameters to be monitored, institute monitoring milestones and
provide resources necessary to carry out the monitoring activities.
30



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                         RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2
The following parameters and verifiable indicators will be used to measure the
resettlement and compensation plans performance;
*  Questionnaire data will be entered into a database for comparative analysis at all
areas where a new school is built by the SC and the EFU,
*   Each individual will have a compensation dossier recording his or her initial
situation, all subsequent project use of assets/improvements, and compensation
agreed upon and received.
*  The SC's and EFU      will maintain a complete database on every individual
impacted by the project land use requirements including relocation/resettlement
and compensation, land impacts or damages
*   Percentage of individuals selecting cash or a combination of cash and. in-kind
compensation,
* Proposed use of payments
* The number of contention cases out of the total cases
* The number of grievances and time and quality of resolution
* Ability of individuals and families to re-establish their pre-displacement activities,
land and crops or other alternative incomes
* Agricultural productivity of new lands
* Number of impacted locals employed by the civil works contractors
* Seasonal or inter annual fluctuation on key foodstuffs
* General relations between the project and the local communities
The following indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate the implementation of
resettlement and compensation plans;
VERIFIABLE INDICATORS
Monitoring                                 Evaluation
Outstanding compensation or resettlement contracts  Outstanding individual compensation or resettlement
not completed before next agricultural season.  contracts.
Communities unable to set village-level    Outstanding village compensation contracts.
compensation after two years.
Grievances recognized as legitimate out of all  All legitimate grievances rectified
complaints lodged.
Pre- project.production and income ( year before  Affected individuals and/or households
land used) versus present production and income of  compensated or resettled in first year who have
resettlers, off-farm-income trainees, and users of  maintained their previous standard of living at final
improved agricultural techniques.          evaluation.
Pre- project production versus present production (  Equal or improved production per household.
crop for crop, land for land).
Financial records will be maintained by the SC's and the EFU at the MoE to permit
calculation of the final cost of resettlement and compensation per individual or
household. Each individual receiving compensation will have a dossier containing;
* Individual biological information,
* Number of people s/he claims as household dependents
* Amount of land available to the individual or household when the dossier is
opened.
Additional   information   will   be    acquired   for   individuals   eligible  for
resettlement/compensation:
31



THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                  RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP 11) APL PHASE 2
* Level of income and of production
* Inventory of material assets and improvements in land, and
* Debts.
Each time land is used /acquired by a project, the dossier will be updated to determine if
the individual or household is being affected to the point of economic non-viability and
eligibility for compensation/resettlement or its alternatives. These dossiers will provide
the foundation for monitoring and evaluation, as well as documentation of compensation
agreed to, received, and signed for.
It is normal that some compensation procedures and rates may require revision at some
time during the project cycle. The SC's and EFU will implement changes through the
Change Management Process in the Monitoring and Evaluation manuals of the project,
which will require feed back from:
* Indicators monitored by the SC's to determine whether goals are being met, and
* a grievance procedure for the local community to express dissatisfaction about
implementation of compensation and resettlement.
32



