                                             Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                   FOROFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                            ReportNo: 25520-LSO




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                ONA

                                         PROPOSEDCREDIT

                               INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 15.3MILLION

                                  (US$21.O MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO THE

                                      KINGDOM OF LESOTHO

                                              FOR THE

               SECONDEDUCATIONSECTORDEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PHASE 11)

                            INSUPPORTOFTHESECONDPHASEOFTHE
                                  EDUCATIONSECTOR PROGRAM



                                           MAY 20,2003


HumanDevelopment1
CountryDepartment 1
Africa Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties.Its contentsmaynot beotherwisedisclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        (Exchange Rate Effective May 8,2003)

                           Currency Unit = Lesotho Maloti
                                  M 1.00 = US$0.138
                                    US$1 = M 7.23

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                  April 1 --March 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ART    Area Resource Teacher
COSC    Cambridge Overseas School Certificate
CSR     Country Status Report
CWIQ    Core Welfare Indicator Questionnaire
DTEP    Distance Teacher Education Program
DRT     District Resource Teacher
DTT     District Teacher Trainer
ECCD    Early Childhood Care and Development
ECOL    Examination Council o f Lesotho
EFU     Education Facilities Unit
EMIS    Education Management Information System
FPE     Free Primary Education
GOL     Government of Lesotho
ICT     Information, Communication and Technology
JC      Junior Certificate
LCE     Lesotho College o f Education
NFE     Non-formal Education
MOET    Ministry o f EducationandTraining
MTEF    Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NCDC    National CurriculumDevelopment Center
NER     Net Enrollment Ratio
NMDS    National Manpower Development Secretariat
NTT     National Teacher Trainer
NUL     National University o f Lesotho
PCSU    Project Coordination and Support Unit
PER     Public Expenditure Review
PCR     Pupil ClassroomRatio
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PTR     Pupil Teacher Ratio
ssu     School Supply Unit
TTI     Thaba-Tseka Technical Institute
TVET    Technical and Vocational Education Training

                           Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
               Country ManageriDirector:      Fayez Omar
                 Sector ManageriDirector:     Dzingai Mutumbuka
        Task Team LeaderiTask Manager:        Xiaoyan Liang

                                                                            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                   LESOTHO
                SECONDEDUCATIONSECTORDEVELOPMENTPROJECT (PHASE11)

                                                  CONTENTS


A. ProgramPurpose andProject DevelopmentObjective                                           Page

   1. Programpurpose andprogramphasing                                                          2
   2. Project development objective                                                             4
   3. Key performance indicators                                                                5

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project             6
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                                6
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                       17
   4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                        18

C. Program and Project Description Summary

   1. Projectcomponents                                                                        18
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                            20
   3. Benefits and target population                                                           21
   4. Institutional and implementationarrangements                                             22

D.ProjectRationale

   1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection                                 23
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies            24
   3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                       26
   4. Indications o fborrower commitment and ownership                                         27
   5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                              28

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis

   1. Economic                                                                                 28
   2. Financial                                                                                30
   3. Technical                                                                                31
   4. Institutional                                                                            34
   5, Environmental                                                                            36
   6. Social                                                                                   37
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                       38




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents maynot be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                 38
   2. Critical risks                                                 39
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                 39


G. MainCredit Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                        40
   2. Other                                                          40

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                       40

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                         41



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                      42
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                52
Annex 3:   Estimated Project Costs                                   66
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis                             68
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                           75
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                76
           (B) Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements     82
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                 88
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                89
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                             90
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                        92
Annex 11:Fulfillmentof Triggers for Moving from Phase Ito PhaseI1    94
Annex 12: Performance Indicators and Technical Notes                 98
Annex 13: Letter o f Sector Policy                                   100




MAP(S)
IBRDNo. 29948

                                                                 LESOTHO
                                            Second Education Sector Development Project (Phase 11)
                                                   Project Appraisal Document
                                                           Africa Regional Office
                                                                  AFTH1

Date: May 20, 2003                                                    Team Leader: Xiaoyan Liang
Sector ManagedDirector: Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                          Sector(s): Primary education (65%), Secondary education
Country ManagedDirector: Fayez S. Omar                                (25%), Vocational training (5%), Tertiary education (3%),
Project ID: PO81269                                                   Pre-primary education (2%)
Lending Instrument: Adaptable ProgramLoan (APL)                       Theme(s):   ducati ion for all (PI, Educationfor the
                                                                      knowledge economy (S)
                                                                           -

                                                                       Commitment     Closing -
                                US$ m   %     US$ m        US$ m           Date          Date
APL 1                           21.00  78.7      5.70        26.70     0913011999    1213112003 Kingdom of Lesotho
                Credit
APL 2                           21.00  77.2      6.20        27.20     0913012003    1213112007 Kingdom o f Lesotho
                Credit
APL 3                           25.00  75.8      8.00        33.00     0913012007    1213112011 Kingdom o f Lesotho
                Credit
Total                        I  67.00 I         19.90  I     86.90    I




                                                    EDUCATIONAND TRAINING (MOET)




  Project implementation period: 913012003 12131/2007    -
  Expected effectiveness date: 09!3012003                Expected closing date: 12!3112007
                                                                                                                               I
' C l A ' i " 0 i r m *(nU./" 2m

A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
Lesotho is a mountainous country surrounded by South Africa with a population o f about 2
million and a 1999 GNP per capita o f US$550. The country i s resource scarce for international
trade purposes. However, Lesotho's water and (the skills o f its) people have some prospects o f
becoming relatively abundant and could be used for development purposes. For instance,
through the Highland Water Project, Lesotho recently started harnessing its water resources for
export to South Africa. Also, traditionally more than 20% o f GNP has come from remittances by
Basothos residingand working inSouth Africa and other countries. Recognizing this, the
Government o f Lesotho (GOL) has manifested its commitment to education through (a) devoting
a relatively highshare o f government budget to education, (b) embracing the Education for All
and MilleniumDevelopment Goals, and (c) identifying education as one o f the key strategies for
alleviating poverty inits interimPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper, and (d) adopting a Free
Primary Education (FPE) policy in 1999.

The 12-year EducationSector DevelopmentProgram(ESDP)I1designed in 1999. The
ESDP I1was designed in 1999 (prior to FPE) as a 12-year Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to
support the education sector. The goal o f the 12-year program is to assist the GOL inachieving
its goal o f producing more and better educated Basothos and enabling them to participate inlocal
and regional labor markets. The 1999 ESDP I1Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for Phase I
stated that the program purpose was to produce "more Basotho better educated, and actively
employed both regionally and locally and participating incommunity leadership roles".

The ESDP I1is to be implemented inthree phases: Phase I(1999-2002), Phase I1(2003-2006),
and Phase I11(2007-2011). As indicated inthe ESDP I1Phase IPAD, Phase Iwill mostly support
primary and secondary education and to underpin investments later on will also support extensive
analysis and capacity buildinginthe areas o f ECCD, TVET and NFE. Similarly, analytical work
completed inPhase I1will underpin investment decisions for Phase 111. The table below
outlines the major investment areas for each o f the Phases as conceived in 1999:

 ProgramPhases                                              InvestmentAreas
 PhaseI            Developing policy options/capacitybuilding inECCD; strengthening ECCD linkagesto primary
(September 1999    education
to                 At the primary & secondaryschool level, increasing accesdequity, developingpolicy optionshmproving
December2003)      quality of education
                  Developing policy options and building capacity inTVET
                  Developing policy options and building capacity inNFE
                   Implementing and strengthening institutional reforms
                   Undertakingapublic expenditure review (PER), makingbudget allocationsbased on MTEF
 PhaseI1           Implementing a comprehensiveprogramof ECCD with clearly definedroles for GOL and other providers
(tentative)        Continuing support to primary and secondaryeducation
                  RevitalizingTVET program
                   Strengthening the delivery ofNFE
                  Deepeninginstitutional reforms
 Phase111          Strengthening the delivery of ECCD to reach 50% of 3-5 year olds
(tentative)       Continuingsupport to primary level to achieve universalprimary education and to secondaryeducation tc
                   achieve 40% net enrollment
                  Building upon PhaseIand PhaseI1investmentsinTVET andNFE
                  Completion of institutionalreforms targetedby program




                                                        - L -

It was understoodthat the designo fthe 2nd and 3rd phases was tentative and may be changed to
take into account the important developments ineducation and the achievements and lessons
learned from the 1st phase implementation.

Importantdevelopmentsin education since 1999: Free Primary Education,MediumTerm
ExpenditureFramework, and EducationSector StrategicPlan. Three important
developments ineducation characterize the sector since 1999 which have had a bearing on the
designand implementation o f Phase 11. First, in 1999, the GOL introduced a Free Primary
Education Policy. The policy was to be implemented ina phased fashion so that fees were
abolished for one standard every year starting from 2000. Inaddition to abolishing fees, the
policy also includes provision o f a teaching and learning materials package, school feeding, and
maintenance. Immediatelyafter the policy, primary enrollment increased from 365,000 to
411,000 in2000, a 12% increase. Much o f the enrollment increase was inStandard 1. The
primary enrollment kept increasing in2001 and 2002, though the rate o f increase was much
slower compared to 2000. By 2002, total primary enrollment reachedover 418,000.

Second, as an explicit strategy for improving the equity and efficiency o f sector budget
allocation, ESDP I1built inits designthe development o f a MediumTerm Expenditure
Framework for Education (MTEF). Tremendous progress has been achieved inutilizing MTEF
for purposes o f budget preparation. Major achievements were (i) review o f the budget and
                                                                      the
financial management system -- a new systemo f classification o f expenditure which has been
preparedby the Ministry o f Education and Training (MOET) and concurred to by the Ministryo f
Finance; (ii)reviewedand obtained ceilings for programs and sub-programs which fit within the
overall ministrybudget ceilings; (iii)  achieved adequate allocative weights to suit strategic
priority areas; (iv) developed budgets for recurrent (personal emoluments and other costs) and
capital; (v) drafted a supplementary note explaining the basis for determining the various
ceilings and concept o f a three year indicative budget cycle. It i s expected that the MOET will
continue to use MTEF to align sector budgets with priorities.

Thirdly in2001, the MOET started the process of developing an EducationSector Strategic Plan,
with financial support from DffD. The draft as it stands has provided some basic inputto the
development o f the MTEF and the log-frame workshop inpreparation o f the proposed ESDP I1
Phase 11. The Ministry and the development partners are, however, o f the view that the Plan
needs further work to strengthen its status as the education sector strategy o fthe country. In
addition to editing, the document would benefit from fine tuning inareas such as: priority setting,
costing estimation, and development o f projections.

Achievements and lessonslearnedduringthe ESDP I1Phase I.The ESDP I1Phase I
(Education Sector Development Project I1Credit 3 192) has an IDA allocation o f US$21 million.
The closing date o f Phase Iwas extended for an additional year up to December 31, 2003. Its
development objectives were to assist the Government o f Lesotho inits effort to increase the
access, equity, and improve the quality o f primary and secondary education. Further, it supported
the Government inthe development o f a policy and institutional framework for early childhood
education, technical and vocational education, and non-formal education.



                                                 - 3 -

Specifically, ESDP I1Phase Ihas supported the following major activities:

0   Capacity buildinginECCD and establishment o f home-based ECCD care in4 pilot districts
0   Development o f a MediumTerm Expenditure Framework for education
0   Training o f existing Secondary School Boards, Primary Advisory Committees, and Primary
    Management Committees
0   Construction o f 413 primary classrooms including 63 inremote and "inac~essible'~areas
0   Construction o f School-Supply Unit Warehouse and refurbishment o f Lesotho Teacher
    College student hostels
0   Launchingo f Primary Distance Teacher Education Program and enrolling a total o f 750
    teachers inyears 2002 and 2003
0   Provision o f primary core textbooks needed to cover the additional enrollment due to FPE
    and for replenishment o f the existing stock
0   Launchingo f a scholarship program and awarding 15,000 scholarships orphans and other
    disadvantaged children in2001and 2002
0   Support for an education EMIS programwhich utilizes ED*Assistand producing annual
    educations statistics ina consistent fashion
0   Policy work and capacity buildingfor technical and vocational education
0   Policy work and capacity buildinginnon-formal education and piloting o f Learner Post
    literacy program in2 districts
0   Ministry-wide capacity building

However, ESDP I1Phase Ihas experienced persistent difficulty inimplementingthe TVET and
NFEcomponents. Delays, omissions, and inthe majority of cases, slow progress appear to have
characterized particularly the TVET system. Reasons include (a) a lack o f capacity inthe
MinistryinTVET; (b) the introduction ofFPE and focus onprimaryand secondary education
diverted the Ministry's attention from TVET; and (c) the complexity o f TVET reform. As a
result, none o f the TVET and NFEtriggers will be fulfilled by the end o f Phase I(see Annex 11
on trigger fulfillment).

The ProposedESDPI1Phase11: The design o f the ESDP I1Phase I1is guidedbythe above
three factors: (a) the ESDP I1framework agreed in 1999; (b) recent developments ineducation;
and (c) lessons learned from implementingPhase I.This proposed Project (with a proposed IDA
allocation o f US$21million) will support mainly the continuation o f activities o f Phase Iduring
the period o f September 2003 to December 2007, including support for primary and secondary
education, early childhood care and development, continued policy work and capacity buildingin
technical and vocational, higher and non-formal education, and MOE institutional strengthening.


2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Development Objective o fthe proposed Phase I1is to further improve the access, equity, and
quality o f primary and secondary education, promote lifelong learning through buildingcapacity
inearly childhood, technical andvocational, higher andnon-formal education, and strengthening
the institutionalcapacity o f the Ministryo f Education and Training.



                                                - 4 -

3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Two sets o f performance indicators will be used: indicators for measuring the achievement o f the
Development Objectives (DO, outcome, or impact indicators) and key implementation progress
indicators (IP or output indicators).

DO/ImpactIndicators. DO indicators recognize the fact that ESDP I1does not act alone inthe
support for the education sector. Other development partners such as GOL, AfDB and Ireland
Aid will also contribute to the achievement o fthese indicators. Further, the designo fthe DO
indicators i s influencedby the Education for All and MilleniumDevelopment Goals o f universal
primary education (completion). Annex 12 lists the DO/ImpactIndicators for the entire ESDP I1
and provides technical notes.
I I                                                                                             2002    2007 target
    Outcomellmpact Indicators                                                                1(Baseline
                                                                                               data)   1 J::tB":,  1
    Share of total educationrecurrent budget increased (including NMDS)devotedto primary
     and secondary education increased                                                          58%        65%

I2 ECCDcoverage increased                                                                       31%        40%

 3 IPrimarycompletion rate increased                                                         I  77%    I   83%     I
E e n z i m e n t ratio increased                                                            I  85%    I   90%     I
 5 Lower Secondary education coverage Form A-C (gross enrollment) increased                     43%        50%

     Performance (overall mean) of national achievement test at primaryeducation level in Math
     and Languages improved:
           - Standard 3 Mathematics overallmean scoreimproved                                   44%        50%
           - Standard 3 EnglishComprehensionoverallmeanscore improved                           31%        36%
I  I       -                                                                                                       I
             Standard 3 Sesotho Comprehensionoverallmean score improved                         71%        75%
           - Standard6 Mathematics overallmean score improved                                   49%        55%
           - Standard 6 EnglishComprehensionoverallmeanscore improved                           45%        50%
I  L       - Standard
     ~                                                                                                 I           I
                      6 Sesotho Comprehensionoverallmeanscore improved                          58%        65%
    An adequate legaland regulatory framework conducive to a demand-drivenTVET system
     in olace


IP/OutputIndicators:

0     252 primary classrooms with facilities, furniture, and equipment are built, 70 o f which will
      be inremote areas
0     3 government secondary schools with related facilities, furniture, and equipment built inthree
      districts
      15,000 bursaries awarded to orphans and other disadvantaged children inprimary and
      secondary schools annually
0     Primary book:student ratio maintained at 5:1and school-based secondary textbook revolving
      fundestablished.
      Distance Teacher Education Program produces at least 250 graduates annually from 2005
      onwards


                                                              - 5 -

0   7500 primary and 1000 secondary teachers o f Math, English,and Science providedwith
    refresher course bi-annually
0   Primary and secondary school inspectors (65) and advisors (92) trained annually
0   400 primaryprincipals/deputies, 100 primarymanagement committees, 125 secondary
    headddeputies, and 30 secondary boards trained annually
0   ECCD home-based centers established inall districts (at least 2 bases per district)
0   Revised TVET Act submittedto Parliament
0   TVET financial management andperformance monitoring system developed
0   Development and introduction o f TVET financing strategy
0   TTI Hostel constructed
0   Development o f higher education monitoring indicators and the establishment o f a higher
    education incentive fund which will be tied to the achievement o f indicators
0   MTEFimplementedannually and education PER updatedby 2004
0   Education Planning Unit strengthened inpolicy development, planning, monitoring and
    evaluation
0   MOETHIV/AIDS policy inplace

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 1775 1-LSO            Date of latest CAS discussion: June 4, 1998

The objective o f the Bank's most recent CAS for Lesotho i s to support the GOL's strategy o f
poverty reduction and its efforts to sustain macroeconomic performance. As stated inthe CAS,
"the Bank will support the GOL effort o f poverty reduction through investing inhuman resource
development: strengthen education and on-the-job/vocational training to deal with Lesotho's
severe capacity constraints and to make the work force more adaptable to labor-market changes
inandoutsidethe country."

For Lesotho to be competitive and export skilledlabor within the region, as well as meet local
labor market needs, it must carefully develop and implement policies and plans ineducation and
training. The proposedproject will contribute to the goal o f human resource development by
strategically expanding the ECCD coverage via a home-based care approach, increasing access
and equity and enhancing efficiency and quality inprimary and secondary education, building
capacity inTVET and higher education so that they are more demand-driven and are better able
to deliver relevant education and training, and strengthening the institutional capacity o f the
MinstryofEducation.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1 Main Sector Issues. Despite these positive developments as described above, many
challenges remain. Primary education enrollment seems to have stagnated after the initialjump
in2000 after FPE, primary completion rate is low, andwastage remains high. Secondary
coverage i s low. Regionaland gender disparity inaccess to secondary is high. Access to and
quality o f ECCD services vary greatly across the country; The policy directions remainto be
developed and capacity i s weak for TVET, higher education, and non-formal education. Further,
Lesotho has one o f the highest HIV/AIDSprevalence rates. The attrition o f MOET officials,



                                                  - 6 -

staff, and teachers and the situation o f orphans and other disadvantaged children pose particularly
serious challenges to the education sector. As for education financing, though education enjoys a
relatively highshare o f total Government budget, within educationthe share allocated to primary
and secondary education i s still low compared to other countries. And the relative highshare o f
the education budget devoted to higher education remains a concern. Inshort, Lesotho still has a
long way to go to achieving the MillenniumDevelopment Goals o f universal primary education
by 2015 and eliminatinggender disparity by 2005.

Primary and Secondary Education

Coverageand Equity. Inthe mid-1990s, Lesotho's primary participation rate started to decrease
significantly. Primary enrollment dropped from 378,000 in 1995 to only 365,000 in 1999. The
major reason seemed to be that households could not afford the highfees charged inprimary
schools. Anecdotal evidence further suggested that the declining employment opportunities for
Basotho men inthe South African mines and the elimination o f school fees inSouth Africa in
1994 could have contributed to the primary enrollment decline.

Since more than 90% o f the Basotho primary schools are owned by churches, the Government
had no control on primary fees chargedto parents even though it was paying for teacher salaries.
As part o fthe commitment to EFA, the Government introduced in 1999 Free PrimaryEducation
(FPE) policy which effectively reversedthe declining trend o fprimaryenrollment. Primary
enrollment increasedby 12% inthe first year o f FPE and reached more than 411,000. ESDP I1
Phase 1 (1999-2003) providedtimely support inconstructing more classrooms, training teachers
and strengthening school level management, provided primary core textbooks, science kits, and
other teaching learning materials, and strengtheningthe MOE institutional capacity at the central
level. The ESDP I1support had helped maintainthe enrollment gain from FPE by ensuring basic
physical facility and minimumprimary education quality. Primary enrollment continued to
increase in2001 and 2002, though at a much slower rate. In2002, primary enrollment reached
418,668, resulting inprimary NER o f 85% according to both the 2001 Lesotho Demographic
Survey and the 2002 Core Welfare Indicator Questionnaire. New population estimates also
confirmed that Lesotho has achieved a primary NER o f 85%.

The primary NER o f 85% is highcompared to the rest o f SSA countries. However, growth in
enrollment after 2000 i s much slower than expected, indicatingthat it i s much more difficult for
the education system to reachthe remaining 15% o fthe school-age population. Primary
participation inrural areas consistently lags behindthat o f urban areas. The recently completed
CWIQ Survey found that net primary enrollment rate inrural areas was 6 percentage points lower
than that o f the urban areas in2002. There are also fewer boys than girls enrolled inprimary
school though the gender balance has improvedconsistently duringthe last decade. Inaddition
to the low quality o f education, the lack o f adequate physical facilities continues to constrain the
growth inprimary enrollment, especially inremote districts and the overcrowded Maseru district.
The EMIS data o f 2000 show a national average Pupil Teacher Ratio (PTR) o f 47.9, with a
variation between the districts o f 45.1 to 55.7. The Pupil Classroom Ratio (PCR) comes to 65.1
with a district variation between 57.5 to 97.7. Intotal there are 8,957 classes in6,3 12 classrooms,
which indicates that over 2,600 classes are hnctioning either indouble shifts and/or without
classrooms. The data also reveal that only 4,230 classrooms are o f a permanent nature.



                                                  - 7 -

Secondary enrollment, on the other hand, has been steadily but slowly growing since early 1990s.
Secondary enrollment increased from 51,895 in 1992 to 77,9 19 in2001. However, the growth i s
still not fast enough to overcome the population growth and consequently the gross secondary
enrollment rate was only 29% in2001. Great disparity exists insecondary coverage: more than
40% o f the urban secondary age group are enrolled insecondary schools, compared to only 20%
for the rural area, and only 7% for the rural poor (CWIQ 2002). Gender disparity i s much more
severe than that o fprimary education. Female secondary enrollment rate i s almost twice as high
as that o f males.

Secondary coverage i s constrained by factors including the highlevel o f fees students have to pay
for tuition, books and others and limited physical facilities, in addition to quality and efficiency
factors. A recent World Bank study on "Growth and Employment Options Study for Lesotho"
found that secondary education contributes significantly to wage earnings. Constraints on
secondary participation will have to be addressed before such benefits can materialize for
Lesotho.

Internal Efficiency and Quality. Wastage is still highinprimary education. In2002, though
primarygross intake rate was more than 180% (number o fnew entrants regardless o fage over
the population of 6 year olds), the primary completion rate (number o f graduates regardless o f
age over the population o f 12 year olds) was only 77%. Though they are not the same cohort, the
trend still indicates a highproportiono f primary students drop out before completing the cycle.
Inparticular, manypupilsdrop out after Standard 3 (Free Primary Educationcurrently only
covers up to Standard 3). Further, the primary net intake (numbero f new entrants who are 6 year
olds over the population o f all 6 year olds) in2002 was only 63%, indicatingthat 37% o f
Basotho 6 year olds will enroll at a later age, ifat all.

The Ministryo f Education and Training administers annually through the ExaminationCouncil
of Lesotho (ECOL) a Primary School Leaving Exam. The pass rate o f students who sat for the
exam was 87.5%, representing a 3 percentage points increase over 2001. ECOL has recently
administered the first national assessment o f student achievement inMath, English, and Sesotho
for Standard 3 and Standard 6. Preliminaryresults show that while Standard 3 and 6 students
seem to do rather well in Sesotho, they have low achievement inboth English(pass rates were
31% for Standard 3 and 45% for Standard 6) and Mathematics (pass rates were 44% for Standard
3 and 49% for Standard 6). The national assessment will be continued to provide information on
the trend o f student achievement. The results from the first assessment in2003 will be used as
baseline data.

Multiple factors contribute to the low quality and low efficiency at the primary level, including a
shortage o f qualifiedteachers and overcrowded classrooms (described above). In2002,25
percent o f the teaching force didn't have a diploma or above degrees and were therefore
consideredunderqualified or unqualified. Quality also suffers because o f the lack o f capacity in
management at the school level; many school heads and committees (Advisory and Management
Committees for primary schools and School Boards for secondary schools) will require further
training. Inspectors and advisors generally lack training. School inspection has also been



                                                  - 8 -

jeopardized by a lack o f operational funds and an over-centralized staffing structure. As a result,
most inspectors spendthe majority o fworking hours incentral offices filling out bureaucratic
forms, rather than visiting the schools. The school advisory services were affected by similar
issues and consequently primary and secondary advisors have not been able to provide timely
pedagogicalguidance to teachers.

The secondary education system also faces even more serious problems o f wastage and low
quality. In2002, the transition rate from primary Standard 7 to the first year o f secondary (Form
A) was high(70 percent). But for every 100childrenwho entered FormA, only 10 students
graduated from FormE. Some 33 percent o f students dropped out between Forms A and C;
another 24 percent dropped out betweenForms D and E; and the transition rate was 64 percent
from Form C to FormD.As for performance, 71 percent o f the pupils who sat for the Junior
Certificate (JC) exam passed, but only 34 percent o f those who sat for the Cambridge Overseas
School Certificate (COSC) passed. Pass rates were especially low inkey subjects such as
mathematics. Trends insecondary student achievement in recent years are not clear because
there are no standardizedattainment tests administered yet at the secondary level.

Orphans and Other Disadvantaged Children. Lesotho has several types o f "disadvantaged
children". The first type are orphans including HIV/AIDSorphans. Lesotho has a relatively high
HIV/AIDS prevalence rate, about 30% according to a recent UNstudy. Though the exact
number o f orphans i s not known, the CWIQ 2002 survey found that 6.3% o f all Basotho
households are caring for orphans under the age o f 15. Assumingthat each such householdtakes
care o f 2 orphans and there are more than 430,000 households, the numbero f orphans will be
more than 52,000. Infact, the Government estimates that the number o f orphans i s around
70,000! The second type are herdboys. The employment o fherdboys, an inherited and
enduring tradition, i s widespread inLesotho. Spending weeks at a time alone with their herds,
the boys travel long distances away from their villages for the animals to graze. This time away
from home results inmissed opportunity for education, socialization and adequate nutrition.
This is also why boys' enrollment inprimary and secondary education lags behindthat o f girls.
Finally, there are other poor non-orphan non-herd-boy children from remote mountainand other
poverty-stricken areas.

The FPEi s to be introduced ina phased fashion so that fees are removedone standard per year
starting from 2000. Therefore by 2002, students in Standard4, 5,6, and 7 continue to pay fees.
The orphans and other disadvantaged childrenidentifiedinthe above paragraph are least likely to
be able to pay for such fees and as a result, they tend to drop out or not enroll at all. Further, fees
at secondary schools tend to be more inhibitive. On average, secondary schools including
government schools charge 900 Maloti (US$ 100) per year just for tuition. Inaddition, parents
have to buy books and uniforms and pay for examinations, food, and transportation. Book fees
for a secondary student can be as highas US$lOO per year.

Uneven ECCD Coverage and Quality. As inmany African countries, the pressures o f modern
life inLesotho are eroding the traditional system o f child care. Migration and wage employment
have weakened the extended family, previously the mainprovider o f child care. As a result, the
prevalence o f private-run day care centers and pre-schools has grown quickly, particularly in



                                                 - 9 -

urbanand peri-urban areas. By 2002, there were about 1,700 ECCD centers serving
approximately 40,000 children o f 3 to 5 years old, reaching a gross enrollment rate o f 31%. In
Lesotho, Government does not provide for ECCD so the existing centers are fundedby
communities or private individuals. The quality o f these services varies greatly. Further, since
fees are charged inthe private centers, ECCD coverage remains particularly low for children
from poor households.

In1985, the MOETbeganto playanimportant roleinplanning, regulatingandmonitoring all
ECCD centers. The MOET established an ECCD Unitto improvethe effectiveness and
utilization o f community-run and private ECCD centers. The MOET started piloting a
home-based care approach in 1999 with financial support from ESDP 11. Duringthe Phase Io f
ESDP 11, home-basedECCD care were establishedon a pilot basis in4 districts (2 bases per
district) as a low-cost alternative to center care focusing particularly on poor children whose
family could not afford center-based care. The home-based care heavily rely on volunteer
caretakers and parents inthe community. The ECCD unit inthe Ministryprovidedtraining o f
the caretakers and parents, very minimumplay equipmentand other teaching leaming materials.
Total enrollment inthe 8 bases reached about 400. Though formal evaluation i s still to be
conducted (results expected by June 2003), initial visits to those bases had found positive impact
on community, parents, and children.

TechnicalandVocationalEducation. GivenLesotho's unique geographic situation and limited
employment opportunities, the GOL recognizes the importance o f adapting its training policies to
produce workers with marketable skills that will make them competitive inboth the local and
regional markets. The TVET system can play a crucial role inthe economic and social
development o f Lesotho. A recent World Bank study found that technical training has a
significant impact on wages. Expansion o f this sub-sector and improvement o f its quality are
thus prioritieso fGOL. However, there are several problems with the current systemwhich must
first be addressed, including (a) a supply-driven approach, which i s due to its weak linkage to the
labor market and (b) its need for sustainable financing.

WeakLabor Market Links. The existing, supply-driven system i s not ina positionto respondto
national or regional labor market needs. TVET institutions have weak links with industryand
offer limited courses o f low quality. Employers generally report dissatisfactionwith the
graduates. Foreigninvestors, especially inthe fast-growing textile and leather industries, resort
to usingexpatriate technicians rather than hiring Basotho. Therefore, job creation does not
always benefit the local population. Although the demand for semi-skilled and skilled labor i s
growing, many TVET graduates encounter difficulties finding employment. This situation
signifies the importance o f strengthening links betweenthe training programs and the needs o f
the private sector. It further calls for the development o f entrepreneurial skills.

Uncertain Sustainability. Onthe other hand, costs have increasedsubstantially, thus raising
questions about sustainability. The current system, although small, i s underutilized and
enrollment has stagnated over the past decade. Although all TVET institutions charge fees, the
existing system relies primarily on financing from the GOL. No govemment today can afford to
finance all the skills needed ina modemmarket economy and diversifying financing for this



                                                  - 10-

sub-sector i s essential to promote sustainable skills development. Further diversification o f the
financing for skills development will be needed, including the role to be played by employers.
The GOL should assess its capacity to provide sustainable funding for the subsector and to
reconsider the role o f user charges. The Government should also consider fostering a private
sector training market because it seems impossible to contemplate that a GOL-fhnded training
sector would grow fast enough to accomodate the skill needs o f the economy.

Duringthe ESDP I1Phase I,support was givento developingthe policies and institutional
framework neededto create a revitalized and demand-driven TVET system. Efforts hadbeen
made to establish (a) a tripartite management structure made up o f representatives o f employers,
employees, and the GOL; (b) a qualifications framework and an enhanced accreditation system;
and (c) a financial management and performance monitoring system. The reforms inthese three
areas were to be encapsulated ina revised TVET Act. Phase Ialso supported a skills needs
assessment for the national economy and for three selected industries. Unfortunately, much o f
the Phase Ieffort failed and key TVET performance indicators have not beenmet. To date, the
MOEhas yet to incorporatethe new TVET policy document into the law and submitthe revised
TVET Act to the Parliament. Without the Act, the new TVET Boardwith tripartite
representation can not be legitimized and a new financing strategy can not be introduced. At the
same time, the consultancy for Skills Needs Assessment study (for 3 pilot industriesand for all
sectors) was severely delayed and the draft report i s still being reviewed. The Skills Needs
Assessment was expected to trigger the TVET movement toward a more demand-driven
program. The knowledge o f skills demandedby important economic sectors will enable the
process o f TVET curriculum review through the six Industrial Advisory Committees which were
establishedduring the ESDP I1Phase I.Little progress has beenmade inthe development o f a
qualifications framework and accreditation system.

Several factors contributed to the unsatisfactory performance o f the TVET sector, includingthe
lack o f a TVET reform champion inthe country, the lack of long-term technical assistance, and
the focus of MOET's attention onprimary and secondary especially since FPE. Further,the
design o f the TVET component inPhase Imay have been too ambitious. It i s now
widely-recognized that reforms inTVET are much more complex and can take as long as 10 to
15 years. This is further compounded by the fact that the Basothos have deep-rooted belief in
centralized systems. Finally, IDA'Sdialogue with the Ministry on TVET has also been
compromised because o f a lack o f technical expertise and financial resources from IDA in
supervision.

Recent evidence from the Bank's "Growth and Employment Options Study for Lesotho" found
positive returns to skills development. At the same time, the Government has identified skills
development as an important strategy for buildingthe national economy. Therefore, it i s
necessary to continue laying the foundation for TVET reform duringPhase I1by focusing on the
passage o f the TVET Act and the establishment o f a new financing mechanism for the TVET
system inLesotho. Priority i s beinggiven to getting the policies right for a market-led system o f
skills development. Support for TVET has to be coupled with long-term technical assistance to
the Ministry. Management and financing o f the TVET system will need to encourage increased
accountability for performance and link provision to market demand.



                                                 -11  -

Higher Education, Lesotho's highereducation system can be described as (a) small as there
were only about 9000 students enrolled inmajor national tertiary institutions in2002; (b) very
costly to the Government which traditionally devotes one third o f its total educationrecurrent
budgetto higher education; and (c) traininglargely for South Africa and the regional labor
market, rather than the local one. The ESDP I1Phase Idid not invest directly inthe higher
education subsector. However the ESDP I1Phase Irequires that the Government increases the
share o f budget devoted to primary and secondary education, implyingthat the tertiary share
needed to be reduced. This approach has provento be inadequate inhelping the higher education
subsector achieve its goals o f efficiency, quality, and equity. The education sector inLesotho
consists o f MOET plus bursaries through the National Manpower Development Secretariat
(NMDS). Includingthe NMDS, the share ofhigher education inthe budget remainedat around
30% o f the education recurrent budget in2002. Though an argument could be made that small
states such as Lesotho may need a higher share o f tertiary budget, the share o f 30% i s still very
high.

Recently, the higher education sector inLesotho, particularly the National University o f Lesotho,
has actively engaged ina reform process. As highereducation seeks to transform itself, a variety
o f issues will needto be addressed, including (a) further reducing the tertiary level budget share;
(b) addressing the data needs for system management; (c) defininga policy framework for higher
education and creating an effective Council for Higher Education; (d) exploringnew sources o f
revenue; (e) finding the right mix indistance education; (0upgrading ICT; and (g) staff training
for transformation. To the extent that further research might be useful it would lay the basis for
conclusions specifying what needs to be transformed and why, what benchmarks will permit
assessmento f progress and what cost calculations will permit measurement o f resources "saved".
Tracer studies o f where the graduates o f higher education go and what they do are lacking and
would also be useful.

Non-formal Education. Prior to the introduction o f Free Primary Education, non-formal
education was identified as a priority for the Ministryto achieve its Education for All goals. The
potential beneficiaries o f the non-formal education are numerous, includingherdboys not able to
attend formal school system; youth who previously dropped out o f the formal school system and
are looking for a second chance; miners who have returned from South Africa; and other illiterate
adults. The introduction o f FPE has successfully brought into the formal school systemmany o f
those children who could not afford schooling before. There is now a needto re-orient
non-formal education fi-om a predominantly literacy program for children who could not afford
formal schooling to a skills development program for adults who are beyond the age o f formal
schooling. At the same time, the Ministryo f Education and Training, with support from ESDP I1
Phase I,was pilotingthe Learner Post program intwo districts. The survey o f the learners
enrolled inthe pilots confirmed that the adult learners would like to have more skills
development modules. The Ministry intends to continue the pilot but now with an emphasis
beyondbasic literacy and numeracy.




                                                  -12-

EducationSector Financing. Comparedto other countries, GOL's commitment to educationis
very high. More than a quarter (28%) o f all GOL recurrent expenditures now go to education
and training, includingthe 4% o f Government budget which is allocated for bursaries, but
administered by the National Manpower Development Secretariat (NMDS) attached to the
MinistryofFinance and Development Planning. However, sub-sectoral allocationremains a
concern. At the time o f ESDP I1Phase Iappraisal in 1999,the recurrent education budget
allocated to primary and secondary subsectors combined was only 58% and about 30% o f the
budgetwas devoted to tertiary education. Duringthe Phase Iimplementation, it was agreed that
bythe end o fPhaseItotal educationrecurrent budget allocated to primary and secondary should
increase by at least 2 percentage points. Much effort was also put indeveloping an education
sector MediumTerm ExpenditureFramework. With assistance from a consulting firm, the
MinistryofEducationreclassifiedthe coding ofthe educationbudget so that overall budget
transparency i s improvedand also successfully submitted the first MTEF inDecember 2002.
The figures from the MTEF (2003-2005) indicate that primary and secondary share o f the
recurrent budget will reach 63% o f the total education recurrent budget, a 5 percentage point
increase, assuming that the NMDS budgetwould not increase substantially.

The annual budgetfor the fiscal year beginningApril 2003 became available only duringthe
appraisal mission. The Ministryof Finance has largely adhered to the priorities set out inthe
MTEF as far as the Ministryo f Educationis concerned. However, the budget for the NMDS was
not part o f the MTEF submission from the Ministryo f Education and Training. The N M D S
budget for the fiscal year beginningin2003 almost doubled as compared to the previous year to
Maloti 198 million. When the NMDS budget i s includedas total education sector budget, the
share o frecurrent budget devoted to primary and secondary education dropped to 57.7%, back to
the level o f 1999.

The subsectoral allocation, therefore, is still skewed infavor o f tertiary education. The share of
the higher education budget remains at about 30% in2003. Unit cost expense o f educating one
NULstudentis equivalent to educating 116primarypupilsor 34 secondary students, a ratiothat
i s highcompared to neighboring countries. Though there may be a case made for Lesotho to
devote a relativelyhigher share o f the education budget to higher education due to its small size
andthe difficulty inachieving economies-of-scale, the share o f 30% is still highcomparedto that
of about 20% inneighboring countries. Continued effort needs to be devotedto increasingthe
efficiency and effectiveness o f the higher education sector, thus reducing the share to the tertiary
subsector. With introductiono f the MTEF, monitoring o f recurrent expenditure will become
easier.

MOET InstitutionalCapacity. The public sector capacity inLesotho is generally weak. The
World Bank hadprepared and appraised a Public Sector Reform and Improvement Project.
However, this project has not materialized due to repeated deferral o f negotiations by the
Government o f Lesotho. Therefore, capacity buildingefforts inthe education sector (such as
decentralization and MTEF) are moving ahead inthe absence o f a Government-wide plan for
public sector capacity improvement.




                                                 - 13-

Challenges of Decentralization and School Governance.The Ministrybegan implementing its
decentralization plan by buildingDistrict Resource Centersand legalizing School Advisory and
Management Committees. However, the roles and responsibilities o f central officers versus
district and other officers are still not clearly delineated. As a result, most decisions continue to
be taken centrally at headquarters. For the system to function efficiently, it will be necessary to
spell out the roles and responsibilities o f the lower tiers o f the management structure.

More than 90 percent o f primary and 80 percent o f secondary schools are legally owned by
churches. Inthe past, church secretaries were responsible for hiring, firing, deploying and
discipliningteachers. However, when church resources for financing recurrent and capital costs
driedup, the GOL became more involved and beganproviding grants for teachers' salaries,
instructional materials and infrastructure. By the 1990s, the Government o f Lesotho was paying
for all teacher salaries. The GOL clearly demonstratedits commitment to improving school
governance by passing the Education Act in 1995.This Act legally underpinned the agreement
between the MOET and the churches to collaborate inthe deliveryo f education. It also provided
for increasedparticipation by parents and called for all primary and secondary schools to
establish School Advisory and Management Committees. These comprise representatives from
the MOET, churches and parents. The Education Act has facilitated more parentalinvolvement
and has also facilitated commendable progress inresolving the churchhtate conflict over the
management o f schools. However, much work needs to be done to enforce the Act and to
continue training school committees intheir new roles. Additional efforts are required to further
define the appropriate roles for the churches andthe state inthe provision o f education.

Policy Development,Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. At the central level, the Education
Planning Unit (EPU) within MOET is incharge o f planning, monitoring and evaluation. The
EPU is headedby a Director o f Planning who answers to both the Principal Secretary o f Planning
and the Principal Secretary o f Education. The EPU i s staffed mainly with planners who are
"cadres" posted to MOET from Central Planning. The MOET has little control over their
appointments. The current EPUhas very weak capacity. Several planners inthe EPU left after
havingbenefited from the long-term training supported by ESDP I1and the positions have not
been filled. Most importantly, traditionallythe Education Planning Unit has only concemed
itself with project implementation, and had not done any sectoral planning or policy
development. Therefore, the EPU i s not organized and the staff i s not trained properly for real
planning. Planning and policy development is usually done bythe Principal Secretary, Deputy
Principal Secretary, and ad hoc committees, or sometimes eventechnical assistance.

In2000, due to the above-mentioned weak capacity inthe EPU, implementation ofESDPII
Phase Igreatly suffered and the project was under "unsatisfactory" status for more than a year. In
an effort to improve the implementation o f ESDP 11, the MOET established a Project
Coordination and Support Unit and thus separated the EPUfrom project implementation
temporarily. Currently, the EPU i s strugglingto re-orient itself. Support from ESDP I1Phase I1
i s critical for the Ministryto continue the process o f developing Education Sector Strategic Plan
and implementingthe Medium Term Expenditure Framework, thus promoting long-term
sustainability o f the reforms introduced. The support will be focused mainly on strengthening
the EPU's capacity inpolicy development, planning, andmonitoringand evaluation. Further,the



                                                   - 14-

rest o f the MOE senior management and the district education officers will also needto be
continuously trained inorder to improve overall management efficiency.

Education ManagementInformation System (EMIS). MOET has a longtradition o f collecting
school statistics annually. With support from ESDP I1Phase I,MOET revised the annual EMIS
forms, adopted the Ed*Assist software for EMIS, and trained relevant officials inthe use o f
Ed*Assist. However, several challenges remain. First, challenges remainas to how to capacitate
the districts so that elements o f the EMIS data collection can be delegatedto the districts and
feedback can be providedto schools ina more timely fashion. Second, due to a lack o f capacity
to analyze the data, the information i s not used for policy making and planning. For example, the
recurrent budget was not aligned with sector priorities and performance prior to the introduction
o f MTEF in2003. Third, the existing EMIS i s also isolated from other information databases
such as those holding examinations and personnel records. Also ECCD data are not captured.
Finally, the EMIS does not sufficiently capture informationon disadvantaged groups and whether
or not bursaries are provided for such children.

HIWAIDS Policyfor Education. The impact ofthe highHIV/AIDS prevalence rate (30%) is
increasingly felt ineducation. Attending finerals o f family and friends has become almost a
weekly event for the Ministry officials. Frequently the MOET i s visited by relatives to try to get
a bursary for HIV/AIDS orphans. The Ministryi s now more open to discuss HIV/AIDS related
issues and i s trying to devise strategies to mitigate its negative impacts. So far the MOE had
incorporated elements o f HIV/AIDSeducation into its primary, secondary, and teacher education
curriculum. It also provides bursaries for HIV/AIDS orphans. However, a comprehensive policy
towards HIV/AIDSwill still be neededto coordinate all HIV/AIDS related activities o f the
Ministry. Suchapolicywill have to be groundedby a goodunderstandingofthe full impact of
HIV/AIDS inthe education sector.

2.2 GOL Strategies

The Government i s well aware o f the important role o f education inpoverty reduction. Its
strategy for education development seems to be two-pronged. While clearly identifyingprimary
and secondary education as its priority, the Government is also emphasizing the sectoral
approachto education development and the call for capacity buildingand strategic investment in
early childhood, technical and vocational, higher education, and non-formal education.

The most important Government strategy to improve access to primary education i s the Free
Primary Education introduced in 1999. Through FPE, the Ministryo f Education i s providing a
package o f teaching and learning materials, core textbooks, school feeding, and school
maintenance (so far MOET has not beenable to pay 5 Maloti per student for school
maintenance). The FPE will continue to be implemented and by 2006 all primary standards
should be covered. Beyond, the MOET i s contemplating inclusiono f lower secondary (Form A,
Form B, and Form C) so that it will also be provided free to the students. However, this i s not
expected to happen very soon due to tight fiscal conditions o f the country. Inthe interim, the
MOET will institute a secondary school fee policy so that fees charged byall secondary schools
will be subject to MOET regulations.



                                                  - 15-

The MOET developed a 10-year Education Sector Development Strategy. As mentioned earlier,
additional work especially inprioritizationand costing will be needed to bringthe draft to a final
stage, after which the MOET will develop annual operational plans linked with the Medium
Term Expenditure Framework to guide the Ministry's day-to-day work. Despite its weaknesses,
the draft Education Sector Strategy identifies the following major strategies for improving
access, equity, and quality o f the primary and secondary education sector and capacity building in
other sectors:

e   IncreaseAccess, Equity, and Qualityof Primary and Secondary Education
    (a) Classroom Construction: Continue the construction to reach PCR o f 40:1inprimary and
         30:1insecondary. Priorities will be givento inaccessible remote areas. The Ministry
         also altered the standard designo f primary classrooms to allow smaller schools inthose
         areas.
    (b) Bursaries. The Ministrywill continue supporting the implementation o f bursaries for
         orphans and other disadvantaged children inupper primary standards which do not yet
         benefit from FPE and inall secondary grades.
    (c) Provision of essentialteaching and learning materials. The Ministrywill continue its
         effort inreplenishing primary core textbooks and procuringadditional textbooks required
         to cater for new primary enrollment so as to maintainthe book to pupilratio o f 5:1.
         Further, the Ministrywill launch a school-based secondary core textbook revolving fund
         so that cost to students on books will be substantially reduced.
    (d) Distance Teacher Education Program. Continue upgrading teacher's qualifications to at
         least the diploma level and to reachprimary PTR 40:1 and secondary PTR 30:1.
    (e) School support through decentralizedinspection and advisory services. Based on a
         consultancy financed by IDA'SESDP I1Phase I,       the MOET is inthe process ofreforming
         the organization and functions o fprimary and secondary inspection and advisory services
         so that schools will be regularly inspected and implementation o f inspection results will
         be monitored more closely. Further primary and secondary schools will be supported by
         a renewed advisory services which will be closely linkedto the inspection.
    ($I Improved curriculum and assessmentframework. The MOET will continue to develop
         an Integrated Curriculum and Assessment Framework for primary and secondary
         education. Further, MOET intends to localize the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate
         to reduce the cost and to continue the implementation o f a National Assessment.
    (sl, School management. School-level management including principals/deputies, Primary
         Advisory and Management Committees, and Secondary School Boards will continue to
         be strengthened, as part o f the Ministry'seffort to implement the 1995 Education Act and
         Local Government Act and bringmore voices into the management o f schools, thereby
         providing a means o f collaboration between the state and the churches inthe delivery o f
         education and enhancing community ownership inthe provision o f education.

0   PromoteLifelongLearningthrough BuildingCapacityin ECCD, TVET, Higher
    Education,and Non-formalEducation
    (a) InECCD,the Ministrywill continue expanding ECCD coverage through promoting
         community-based programs while strengthening MOET's role inplanning, regulation and
         monitoring o f all ECCD providers especially inenforcing standards o f health and safety.


                                                 -16-

    (b) InTechnical and Vocational Education, the Government will continue policy
         development and capacity buildingand introduce market-driven training.
    (c) InHigher Education, the Government will continue policy development and capacity
        buildingto laythe foundations for further expansion and improvement for the subsector.
    (d) InNon-formal Education, the Ministrywould like to continue the support for Learner
        Post pilots while broadening the focus of the pilots to include more skills training
        modules.

a MOET InstitutionalStrengthening
    (a) District Education Management. The MOET emphasizes trainingo fthe district
        education officers indecentralized district-based education management and equipping
        the District Resource Centers to enable more functions to be carried out at the district
        level.
    (6) Ministry of Education Policy Development, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. At
        the central level, the MOETwill emphasize overall capacity buildinginpolicy
         development, planning, monitoring and evaluation and usingMTEF to align Sector
         Financing with priorities. The Government has committed itselfto ensuring that 65% o f
        the education sector budget (including the NMDS) i s devoted to primary and secondary
        education by 2007. The Ministrywill also develop a comprehensive HIV/AIDS policy
         for education.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposedPhase I1Project therefore will help address the above-identified issues. In
particular, it will adopt the strategies o f the Government and continue to support primary and
secondary education, policy work and capacity buildinginECCD, technical and vocational
education, higher and non-formal education, and strengthening the MOET institutionalcapacity
at both the district and central levels.

Inshapingthe proposed PhaseI1Project, the GOL/IDAhas madethe following strategic choices:

    Itrecognizes that a targeted approach is more likely to addressthe specific needs o fthe
    poorest groups inisolated, impoverished regions, thus addressing the problem o f equity o f
    access to and quality of education services. The targeted approach will be used inthe
    identification o f new sites for primary schools, expansion o f secondary schools, for the
    identification o f scholarship beneficiaries, and selection o f ECCD home-based care sites.

    Italso recognizesthat inorder to sustain enrollment gains and to prevent deterioration in
    quality inprimary education, the Ministry will need to sustain support for the provision o f
    qualifiedteachers, the provisiono f educational materials for primary and secondary schools,
    strengthening o f school-level management, strengtheningschool inspection and school
    support, and improvement o f curriculum and assessment.

    It is important to be engaged inpolicy development, capacity building, andpiloting in
    subsectors other than primary and secondary. This i s true not only from perspective o f a
    sector-wide approach and systemic reform ineducation to promote a culture o f lifelong


                                                  - 17-

    learning, but also from the the fact that increased spendinginprimary and secondary will
    have to come at the expense o f the other subsectors. Such a shift inpublic expenditure i s not
    possible without improving the efficiency o f these sectors and diversification o f their
    financing.

    Itrecognizesthe importance ofbuildingcapacity inpolicy development, planning,
    monitoring and evaluation inorder to ensure long-term sustainability o f the program.

    It recognizesthe needto align allocations ofpublic expenditure with GOLpriorities for the
    sector through the tool o f the MediumTerm Expenditure Framework.

4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The 12-year ESDP I1Program is described in Section A.1 o f this PAD. The following triggers
are proposed for ESDP I1to move from Phase I1to Phase 111.

        Proposed Triggers for Moving from ESDP I1Phase I1to Phase I11

1. 75% of IDA funds for PhaseI1committed
2. Primarv comuletion rate increased to 83%
3. MTEF implementedconsistently, and at least 65% education sector recurrent budget (including
the bursaries administered by NMDS) allocatedto primary and secondary
4. Primary book:pupil ratiomaintained at 5:1and school-based secondary core textbook revolving
fundestablished
5. Distance Teacher Education Program produces at least 250 graduates annually from 2005
onwards
6. Adequate legal and regulatory framework conducive to a demand-drivenTVET systeminplace


C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailedcost
breakdown):
The proposed ESDP I1Phase I1will be implemented during the 4-year period o f 2003 to 2007
and will have the following four main components:

I. PrimaryEducation
2.       Secondary Education
3.      Lifelong learning inECCD, TVET, Higher and Non-Formal Education
4.       Strengthening MOET Institutional Capacity

The detailed policy and investment elements o f the proposed Phase I1 Project for the period
September 2003 to December 2007 are:

0    252 primary classrooms with related facilities, hmiture, and equipment are built, 70 o f which
    will be located inremote areas



                                                  - 18-

0   3 secondary schools with relatedfacilities, furniture, and equipment built inthree districts
0   15,000 bursaries awarded to orphans and other disadvantagedchildren inprimary and
    secondary schools annually
0   Additional core primary textbooks providedto cater for the new enrollment and the
    replenishment and school-based secondary textbook revolving fimd established
0   Distance Teacher Education Program continues to be supported so that it produces at least
    250 graduates annually from 2005 onwards
0   Develop an IntegratedCurriculum and ExaminationFramework, localize the Cambridge
    Overseas School Certificate Exam and continue to implement National StandardizedTests in
    basic literacy and numeracy
0   7500 primary teachers and 1000 secondary teachers o f Math, English, Science, and Sesotho
    provided with refresher course bi-annually
0   Primary inspectors (45), primary advisors (85), secondary inspectors (20) and secondary
    advisors (17) trained annually
0   School management (400 primary principals and deputies, 100primary management
    committees, 125 secondary principals and deputies, and 30 Secondary Boards) trained in
    finance and management
0   ECCDhome-basedcenters established inall districts (at least 2 bases per district)
0   Revised TVET Act submittedto Parliament
0   TVET financial management andmonitoring system developed
0   TVET innovationfundestablished
0   Thaba-Tseka Technical Institute student hostel constructed
0   Higher education monitoring indicators developed
0   Establishment o f highereducation incentive fund which will be tied to the achievement o f
    indicators
0   Two Non-formal Education Learner Post pilots continue to be supported
0   District management strengthened and 10 District Resource Centers providedwith equipment
    and library materials
0   MOET capacity strengthened inpolicy development, planning, monitoring and evaluation
    and inusingMTEF to align sector financing with priorities. Further, HIV/AIDS policy
    development will be supported.

Proposed ESDP I1Phase I1Costs (including contingencies) by Component and Sub-component
(a 5th component i s added for project implementation).




 1. Primary Education                                         14.18      52.1       11.47        54.6
       1.1 Classroomifumiture/equipment (US$9.95m)
       1.2 Targetted equity-based program (US$0.52m)
       1.3 TeachingAeaming materials (US$0.2 lm)
       1.4 Primary inspectiodadvisory (US$0.98)
       1.5 Primary school management (US$0.40m)
       1.6 Distance Teacher Education Project (US$1.45m)
       1.7 Curriculum and assessment (US$0.66m)



                                                -19-

 2. Secondary Education                                         5.95       21.9      4.18      19.9
       2.1 Classroom/furniture/equipment (US$ 1.78m)
       2.2 Targettedequity-basedprogram (USS2.57m)
       2.3 TeachingAearningmaterials (US$lm)
       2.4 Secondary inspectiodadvisory (US$0.35m)
       2.5 Secondary school management (US$O.25m)
 3.Lifelong learning in ECCD/TVET/Higher/NFE                    2.16        7.9      1.83       8.7
       3.1 ECCD (US$O.35m)
       3.2 TVET (US$l.O9m)
       3.3 Higher Education (US$0.40m)
       3.4 NFE (US$O.33m)
 4. MOET Institutional Strengthening                            3.60       13.2      2.46      11.7
       4.1 District Management (US$l.O3m)
       4.2 MOET policy/planning/M&E (US$1.82m)
       4.3 Staffdevelopment and training (US$OSm)
       4.4 HIV/AIDS in education (US$0.25m)
 5. Project implementation                                       1.31       4.8      1.06       5.0
                                           Total Project Costs  27.20     100.0     21.00
                                  Total FinancingRequired       27.20     100.0     21.00
 Jote: Costs in this table include contingencies.

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supportedby the project:
ESDP I1Phase I1continues to support the following key policy and institutional reforms started
inPhaseI:

0   Regularly align budgetary allocations with sectoral priorities via the MTEF and PER
e   MOETwill explicitly target resources onthe orphans and other disadvantagedchildrenin
    poor and most isolated communities
0   Establish a curriculum and examination framework and implement national assessment
0   MOET will continue to pushthe decentralization agenda through strengthening school-level
    management and district education offices
e   MOETwill continue to encourage community participation inthe expansion o f ECCD
    services through home-based care approach.
0   Re-vitalize TVET so that it i s a demand-driven rather than supply-driven system

Inaddition, theprojectwill supportthe followingkeypolicyandinstitutional reforms adoptedby
the Government since 1999:

    Free Primary Education
    Bursaries for orphans and other disadvantagedchildren
    Distance Teacher Education Program
    Decentralization o f school inspection and advisory services
    Maintaining the primary textbook: pupilratio at 5: 1 and establishing school-based textbook
    revolving fund for secondary schools
    Establishment o f secondary core textbook revolving fund
    In-service training o f primary and secondary teachers o f Mathematics, Science, and English


                                                   - 20 -

0   Institutionalize national assessment for primary and secondary education
0   Improving the efficiency o f the higher education subsector
a   Establishing a comprehensive HIV/AIDSpolicy for education

3. Benefits and target population:
Target Population

The primarybeneficiaries o fthe project will include: all primary and some secondary school age
children; childrenbetween the ages o f 3 and 5 who will benefit from increasedECCD coverage;
TVET and tertiary students who will benefitfrom potentially more relevant and higherquality
skills training and education; the reducedpublic cost o f TVET and higher education will further
enable more students to be enrolled at all levels o f education; and the participants inthe two
NFEpilots such as illiterate adults, returning minersand others seeking additional skills and
training. The secondary beneficiaries include parents and communities because (a) their burden
o f educating and caring for their children i s now beingshared by the Ministry o f Education and
Training with support from the project; (b) villagers livingnear areas o f school construction sites
will benefit from the increased employment opportunities due to the construction; and (c)
communities will continue to exercise their voices through the functioning o f newlyestablished
primary school committees and secondary school boards. Finally, MOET officials and teachers
will also benefit from the projectbecause o f increased opportunities for training and exposure to
the best practices ineducation reforms and increasedjob effectiveness and satisfaction.

Further, the proposedproject will target orphans and other disadvantaged children. Three
components o f the project target these children. First, selection o f sites for construction o f
primary and secondary classrooms will be based on the needs defined by the school age
population, poverty, pupil to classroom ratio and the school mapping exercise. Second, the
scholarships will only be awarded to orphans and other vulnerable children. The scholarship
program i s expected to benefit about 15,000 such children annually which covers 5% o f all
primary and secondary students and about 40% o f the total orphan population. A pilot will also
be establishedto bringorphans and other disadvantaged childrenwho are currently out o f school
into the school system. Finally, the selection o f ECCD home-basedcare sites will also be
determined by poverty and child populationcriteria.

Benefits

The short-term benefits o f the proposed Phase I1will be drawn primarily from direct investments
intheprimaryand secondary educationsubsectors. These investmentswill result inincreased
enrollment o f school-aged children inprimary and secondary school . Once they enroll, these
children will benefit from quality improvements such as lower pupil-teacher ratios, lower
pupil-classroom ratios, more affordable and better quality textbooks, more and better trained
teachers, and a more effective and efficient education management. Although rates o f retumto
education inLesotho have not been calculated, economic returns to primary and secondary
education for the sub-region are high: The average "social" rate o f retum for low and
middle-income sub-Saharan African countries i s 24% for investmentinprimary education and
 18% for investment insecondary education according to a 1995 World Bank study, "Priorities


                                                  -21 -

and Strategies inEducation. Recent analysis for the Lesotho labor force survey indicates that
education attainment i s positively and significantly associated with employment and higher
wages.

Indirect, medium-term benefits will accrue from improved efficiency and equity inthe
management and delivery o f educational services, both centrally and at the district and school
levels. Regularly updating the PERs and subsequent annual budget allocations based on the
MTEFwill allow the MOET to monitor the expenditures on basic education as compared to
expenditures on higher education and align allocations with sectoral priorities. Recruitment and
training o f personnel inkey units inthe MOET will enhance its capacity to implement the project
and manage long-term reforms. The establishment and training o f school committees will
enhance collaboration among GOL, churches, schools and communities indelivering education
services and managing schools.

The nation and its people will derive long-term benefits from expanded access to quality
education and training. With more Basothos better educated, a higherproportion o f the
populationwill participate inthe labor market and be gainfully employed locally, regionally, or
internationally. This will help reduce the number o f people livinginabsolute poverty. Society
as a whole will benefit from resulting higher literacy rates, increasedsocial cohesion, lower
crime rates, improvements inchild health and nutritional status, improvements inhealth
outcomes for adults, higher educational attainment for future generations, lower fertility rates and
intensified economic growth, and reduction o f skillbottlenecks and expansion o f employment.

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:
Under the overall leadership o f the Principal Secretary for Education and Training (PS, MOET),
the project will be implementedby the various Programs including theECCD unit,primary and
secondary inspectorates, National Curriculum Development Center, ExaminationCouncil o f
Lesotho, School Supply Unit, Lesotho College o f Education, Education Planning Unit, Education
Facility Unit, Technical and Vocational Department, the HigherEducation Council, and the
Non-formal Education Unitwithin the Ministry. It will be coordinatedby the Director o f
Planning.

The MOET Senior Management Committee, chaired by the PS, MOET will have responsibility
for project implementation and will ensure full integration o f the implementation process into the
regular operations o f the MOET. Task Forces may be established from time to time to provide
technical guidance to specific issues duringimplementation.

Under the ongoing project, the MOET has built good capacity for civil works within the
Education Facilities Unit (EFU), and this unit will be maintained. The MOET will hire additional
EFUstaff to ensure adequate attentionto the needs ofclassroom construction inthe inaccessible
areas, which i s expected to take longer than construction inthe accessible areas. Relevant staff
may be recruited for the implementation o f primary school construction usingcommunity
approach inat least two pilot sites, which will rely heavily on local labor as means o f greater
ownership, possible lower cost and poverty alleviation.




                                                - 22 -

Adequate capacity for procurement o f goods now also exists inEFU, though coordination o f all
procurement activities including civil works, goods, and consultancies will need to be
strengthened. EFUwill appoint a Procurement Coordinator from its existingstaff to ensure
better coordination o f all procurement activities including those financed by other donors.
Further, incase the need for additional procurement capacity should arise, the project will
allocate funds for short-term procurement technical assistance.

4.1 Monitoring and evaluation arrangements

The central project monitoring tools are as follows:

        Quarterly Financial Monitoring Report which will include a financial report, a physical
        progress report, and a procurement plan.

        Twice-a-year supervision, a mid-term review, and end-of-project completion reports will
        provide monitoring information at regular intervals.

        Program evaluation and research studies will provide a second source o f monitoring
        information. These will assess the impact o f the scholarship program, teacher training and
        training o f school-management, inspectors and advisors, continuous evaluation o f the
        home-basedECCD care, the utilization o f physical facilities and teaching and learning
        materials by 2006, one year before the closing o f Phase 11.

        National assessment o f student learning achievement.

        The MTEF will serve as a tool for monitoring the budgetary process and sub-sectoral
        budget allocation.

        EMIS will provide annual reports on keyperformance indicators such as school
        enrollment, achievement, repetition and drop-out rates.

        Special studies will also focus on emerging social issues and improve the collection o f
        information on disadvantagedgroups.

        Annual audits

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:

a)        APL vs. traditional investment loan. As agreed in 1999, the ESDP I1adopts the APL as
lending instrument,owing to the scale and evolutionary nature o f ESDP 11. The APL will enable
sustained, long-termBank support inthe education sector duringthe period o f 1999 to 201I.
Flexibility indesign will facilitate the targeting o f future investments to new sector priorities.

b)      Buildingnew government secondary schools vs. expanding existingones. An original
proposal was made by the Ministryto expand the overcrowding secondary schools as a measure



                                                 -23-

for increasing access to secondary education. However, the Ministryfinally decided to construct
new basic government secondary schools indistricts where currently there are no government
schools for equity reasons.

c)      Support for higher education. The ESDP I1framework as agreed in 1999 did not include
support for higher education. However, there was an implicit understanding that the tertiary
share o f the education recurrent budget was to be reduced and the education recurrent budget
devoted to primary and secondary educationwas to be increased. However, the recent completion
o f the Ministry's Strategic Plan for the whole sector points to the importance o f understanding
the place o f higher education inthe Plan, including the long term enrollment implications o f the
recent introduction o f free primary education. Therefore, at the beginningo f Phase I1preparation,
the Bank Higher Education Specialist visited Lesotho and considered the possibility o f
supporting higher education during Phase 11. It was agreed that a small sum would be set aside
for a planningworkshop early inPhase 11, collection o fbaseline data, and the establishment o f
an incentive hnd for priority equipment and training needs that would reinforce the
transformation process already started at the tertiary level. These would be made available on the
basis o f the measuredachievement over a three-year period o f cost saving targets establishedat
the planning workshop.

d)      Support for HIV/AIDS. The HIV/AIDSprevalence rate inLesotho was about 30%
according to a recent UNstudy. Inthe past, every program within education was doing a little bit
o f HIV/AIDS, without overall coordination. The MOET has recently established an HIV/AIDS
coordination office and also has committedup to 2% o f its budget over the next three years to
HIV/AIDS prevention and education. The MOET is currently planningto do a study on the
impact o f HIV/AIDSon education, followed by developing an HIV/AIDS policy for education.
The ESDP I1Phase I1will set a small amount to assist the Ministry inthis effort.

2. Major relatedprojectsfinancedby the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                             Latest Supervision
              Sector Issue                         Project                     (PSR) Ratings
                                                                         (Bank-finance projectsonly)
                                                                        Implementation  Development
 Bank-financed                                                           Progress (IP) Objective (DO)

 Expandedlupgraded vocational,          Education Project (Cr. 4970),         S              S
 technical, and commercial education;   US$4 million, closed March
 provided educationto out-of-school     31, 1979
 youth and adults

 Constructed curriculum development     Second EducationProject (Cr.          S              S
 center and secondary schools, provided 7480), US$7.5 million, closed
 equipmentlvehicles, technical          December 31, 1982
 assistance, and fellowships

 Improvedquality and efficiency in      Third EducationProject (Cr.           S              S
 primary and vocational education       11480), US$10 million, closed
                                        September 30, 1987


                                                - 24 -

Reducedovercrowding; increased the FourthEducation Project (Cr.
wailability o f instructionalmaterials,    15120), US$lO million, closed
mdupgraded unqualified teachers            September 30, 1991

[a) increase quality, efficiency and       Education Sector Development
relevance o f educational programs at      Project (Cr. 2287), US$25.2
sll levels of education system, with a     million, closed June 30, 1999
special focus on primary education;
and(b) buildinstitutional capacity to
improve overall sectoral performance

(a) demonstrate the effectiveness o f a ICommunity Development
demand-driven approach to supporting Support Project (LIL),US$4.7
Zommunity development through a            million, closing September 30,
phasedimplementation o f multi-            2003
sectoral special fund; and (b) to
strengthenLesotho's capacity to
monitor scope and trends o f poverty in
the country.

Increase the access, equity, and           Education Sector Development
improve the quality o f primary and        Project I1(Phase I)   ,US$21,
secondary education. Supports Govt in closing December 3 1,2003
development o f policy and institutional
framework for early childhood
education, technical and vocational
education, and non-formal education.
3ther development agencies
AfDB                                       Primary classroom constructioi
                                           in3 districts; provisionof
                                           furniturelleaming materials to
                                           primary schools; construction
                                           o f secondary scienceltechnical
                                           laboratories; in-service trainine
                                           o f primarylsecondary school
                                           teachers; capacity buildingfor
                                           MOE. US$12.8 million.
                                           Project period: 1999-2002
IrelandAid Lesotho                         primary classroom
                                           construction, furniturelequip.
                                           training o f paraprofessional
                                           teachers, mgmt training,
                                           institutional strengthening.
PlDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), H Highly Unsatisf




                                                      - 25 -

3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design:
The PAD o f ESDP I1Phase Idetailed the lessons learned from past educationprojects which
have been incorporated into the design o f ESDP 11. These lessons include the importance o f
MOET participation and ownership, partnership with other developmentpartners, balancingthe
investmentinimprovingeducational quality versus increasing school spaces through
construction, aligning the budge allocation with priority areas through the MTEF tool, and
targeting o f orphans and other disadvantagedchildren.

Duringthe implementationofESDP I1Phase I, following additional lessons were learnedand
                                                  the
are reflected inthe design o f the proposed Phase 11.

Identificationo f sites for school construction. Phase Iwas to expand primary coverage through
buildingadditional classrooms inthe existing schools. When the Government introduced FPE in
1999,it also stated that the Government would now only build and expand government schools
only. This shift delayed the implementation o f Phase Isince new sites hadto be found for
construction. An ad hoc Task Force was established and a set o f criteria was developed for
identificationo f primary school construction sites. Though this procedure has worked relatively
well duringPhase I,a more scientific approach for site selection i s neededto target the most
disadvantagedareas and avoid over-buildingincertain areas. A primary and secondary school
mappingexercise i s being conducted to guide the selection o f sites duringPhase TI.

Annual budget for scholarship component. The ESDP I1Phase Idesign initially did not identify
scholarships as a strategy toward achieving equity ineducation. Phase Iallocated a budget for
"targeted equitybasedprogram'' but detailed activities for the component were not defined.
Towards the middle o f ESDP I1implementation, the MOET and the Bank finally agreed to use
scholarships as an explicit strategy. The scholarship programwas formally launchedby the
Ministerin2001. Duringthe first two years ofimplementation in2001and 2002, it became so
popular, yet politicized, that the MOET felt pressure to process more and more applications
without consideration for annual planningand budgeting. Subsequently, Phase Iended up not
being able to pay some o f the scholarships awarded because o f the shortage o f funds. It was
agreed that duringPhase 11, annual planning and budgetingwill be used as a tool and quotas will
be distributed to the districts based on an agreed formula.

Outsourcing o f training. ESDP I1Phase Ihad built ina large numbero f training activities
including the training o f all Primary Advisory and Management Committees and Secondary
School Boards. The burdeno f training fell mostly on the inspectors who themselves were
already over committed to other responsibilities. This was the most important reasonwhy some
o f the training was delayed. InPhase 11, outsoucing o f similar training activities to universities
and other training institutions will be explicitly encouraged. An important side benefit o f the
outsourcing was to give incentive to public and private tertiary institutions. Inthe context o f
higher education reform, access to ESDP I1training funds will be very important to the survival
o f these institutions.

Technical and Vocational Education. The unsatisfactory implementation o f the TVET
component duringPhase Ihas shown that the reforms inTVET are very complex and the MOET


                                                 - 26 -

will neednot only a champion inthe country but also long-term technical assistance inorder to
implement the reform agenda built inthe project. We also learned that there i s a deep-rooted
belief incentralized systems and movement toward a flexible, demand-driven systemwill be
long and difficult. Further, IDA'Sdialogue with the Ministry on TVET had also been
compromised because o f lack o f technical expertise and financial resources during supervision.
The design o f the TVET component inthe proposedPhase I1will reflect these lessons by (a)
allowing more time inPhase I1to continue laying the foundation for reform; (b) providing long
term technical assistance; and (c) separately, IDA will intensifyour own dialogue with the
MOET on the TVET sector.

Project Implementation. Inthe past, includingthe first two years o f ESDP I1Phase I,all MOET
projects were coordinated by the Education Planning Unitunder the Director o f Planning. The
EPUwas a synonym for "project implementation". However, EPUhadlittle understanding o f
planning and policy development. Starting from 2000, project implementation also started to
suffer due to loss o f staff inEPU. There was a disbursement lag o f almost 20 months. In2001,
as a temporary measure, the then PS Education requested Bank support to recruit a Project
Coordinator who would helpthe PS and Director o f Planning focus on the coordination o f
project activities. The strategy has proved successful as implementation quickly improved and
disbursement lag was reducedto only 7 months within a year. The ESDP I1Phase I1will initially
continue with this temporary arrangement, while at the same time emphasize strengthening the
Planning Unit inpolicy development, planning, monitoring and evaluation. As soon as the
capacity o f the Planning Unit i s sufficiently improved (by independent consultant assessment),
the MinistryofEducation and Trainingwill contemplate the incorporation ofthe project
coordination back into the Planning Unit. An integrated approach to project implementation will
contribute to long-term sustainability.

4. Indicationsof borrower commitment and ownership:
The GOL has demonstrated a strong commitment to improving education and recognizes that
education and training are powerful tools inthe fight against poverty. The share o f Government
expenditures devoted to education has been around 28% (including the 4% allocated to National
Manpower Planning Secretariat for bursaries) inrecent years, highcompared to other countries in
the region.

At the policy level, the Government is committedto producinga Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP) where education will feature prominently. A full PRSP should be producedby
December 2003. Lesotho also embraced Education for All and the MillenniumDevelopment
Goals for education. The introductiono f Free Primary Education was the first step towards
achieving these goals. The Government is also committed to further increasing the share o f
education budget allocated to primary and secondary education from 57.7% inthe 2003 budget to
65% (including the budget that goes to the National Manpower Development Secretariat) by the
conclusion o f Phase 11.

The GOL also has full ownership o f the ESDP I1program. InNovember 1997,the GOL held a
Round Table Conference on "Poverty Reduction Within the Context o f Good Governance." At
this meeting, the GOL outlineda costedpovertyalleviation program centeredon five priority


                                                 - 27 -

areas, including "improving social services to the poor." This priority area focuses heavily on
improving the quality o f education and extendingaccess to education. Following the presentation
o f its specific education priorities, the GOL asked the Bank to finance a new project, ESDP 11, to
support its education sector program. InSeptember 2002, following the successful
implementation o f ESDP I1Phase I,the GOL sent a formal request to the Bank to proceed to
ESDP I1Phase 11.

5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:
The World Bank has consistently supportedthe GOL inits education efforts since the early
1980s.It is now the major external financier o f education inLesotho. The proposed project
incorporates many lessons learned from the experience over the years including that from the
implementation o f ESDP I1Phase I, outlined above. The value added o f World Bank support
                                         as
i s in assisting the GOL to clarify its ideas and focus on priority areas, and inproviding global
comparisons and experiences inother countries.

Inparticular, as a result ofGOLandWorldBank discussions, the project will now focus on
several areas previouslynot dealt with sufficiently: (a) prioritizingprimary classroom
construction ininaccessible areas; (b) developing a new distance educationprogram for teacher
training, drawing on lessons learned from the World Bank Africa Region study: Enhancing
Learning Opportunities inAfrica: Distance Education and Information and Communications; (c)
emphasizing decentralization o f school management by establishing and training school
committees; (d) institutionalizinga bursary scheme for orphans and other disadvantaged
children; (e) investigating means o f increasing cost-efficiency at NUL;and (f, regularly
undertaking a PER ineducation and subsequently makingbudget allocations based on annual
MTEF.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)

0
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
     Cost benefit      NPV=US$million;ERR= % (see Annex 4)
3    Cost effectiveness
     Other (specify)

Economic Benefits. The most recent year for which a Labor Force Surveyi s available i s 1999.
The Surveyi s limitedto the territory o f Lesotho, buthouseholds are asked to identify household
members who are citizens o f Lesotho but who are working inthe Republic o f South Africa. On
that basis, Lesotho's labor force was estimated to have been about 849,000 in 1999. The
distribution o f these 849,000 persons was roughly as follows: employed within Lesotho, 514,000;
employed inRSA, 103,000; unemployed (within Lesotho), 232,000. The unemployment rate i s
either 31%, ifthe measure i s limited to the territory o f Lesotho, or 27%, ifLesotho citizens
working inRSA are includedwithin the measure o f the labor force. The highlevel o f
unemployment i s obviously a major economic and social problem for the country.

Only 23% o f employed persons were wage and salary employees, while 69% were employed in
subsistence farming, and 8% were self-employed (inoccupations other than subsistence
farming).


                                                   - 28 -

Poverty analysis suggests that households with individuals inpaid (wage and salary) employment
have the greatest chance o f escapingpoverty. Education has a powerful effect on an individual's
likelihood o f obtaining paid employment. Only 40% o f those without any education or with
Standards 1-7 education are inpaid employment. 50% o f those with Forms 1-7 education are in
paid employment, while more than 80% o f those with A level or higher are inpaid employment.

                     Median income by education




        0       2       4       6       8       10      12     14       16      18
                       No of years of education

Among paid employees, education i s an important factor indetermining eamings. As shown in
the chart above, eamings increase marginally with schooling until about 11years, after which
they rise steeply, and then level off again.

Socialbenejits. Inaddition to enabling people to earn larger incomes, education enables people
to understand health issues better, and therefore to lead healthier lifestyles. The education o f
 females benefits not only themselves, but also their children. Fromthe Population Census o f
 1996,it i s known that adult females inLesotho with more education tend to have fewer children.
 The Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ) survey o f 2002 found a strong correlation
between education and awareness o f how HIV/AIDSi s transmitted. Surveys inother southern
 African countries have found positive relationships between mothers' education and children's
 nutritional status, and negative relationships betweenmothers' education and infant mortality,
 and it would be helpful for CWIQ to be analyzed further to explore those relationships in
 Lesotho.




                                                  - 29 -

2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)

Fiscal Implicationsof ExpandingEnrollmentandImprovingQuality

Government expenditure in the macroeconomic context. Due to the highratio o f international
trade to Lesotho's GDP (a "small country" effect), and the income from the Lesotho Highlands
Water Project, the Government receives revenue equivalent to 37% o f GDP -a muchhigher
ratio than i s typical for countries at Lesotho's low income level. This has enabled a highlevel o f
Government expenditure, at 48% o f GDP in2002/03. Despite the favorable revenue situation,
and some external grant aid, expenditure i s so elevated that Lesotho is incurring budget deficits
amounting to 5% o f GDP. Over the mediumterm, it will be important for levels o f expenditure
and deficit financing to be curtailed, to enable a larger share o f national income to be devoted to
private sector investmentand growth.

The education sector inLesotho, consisting o f the Ministryo f Education and Trainingplus
bursaries administered through the National Manpower Development Secretariat, absorbs 32% o f
Government recurrent expenditure, excluding interest payments, and 28% o f total Government
expenditure. Government expenditure on education amounts to 12% o f GDP, substantially
greater than inmost African countries.

Issues in the composition of Government expenditure on education, andfiscal planningfor
the sector. The distributiono f education sector recurrent expenditure is as follows: basic
education, 40%; secondary education, 17%; TVET, 6%; higher education, 29%; teacher training,
3%; administration and supporting services, 5%. Inrelation to other African countries (and
despite the FPE policy which has shifted some costs formerly borne by parents, onto the
Government budget), Lesotho still spends a relatively small share on basic education, and an
unusually highshare on tertiary education. The difficulty o f achieving "economies o f scale" at
the National University o f a country with a small population helps explain the latter observation.

Under Phase I,   the Ministryo f Education and Training prepared the first-ever sectoral Medium
Term Expenditure Framework, covering 2003/04 through 2005/06, with the assistance o f a
consulting firm. MTEF will become a routine activity o f the Ministry. Thus, the next MTEF
will be for 2004/05 through 2006/07. Itwill simulate the fiscal impact o f enrollment expansion
and quality improvement, includingthe investments to be made under Phase 11, and reflecting the
revised demographic projections. Inthat context, the following factual and policy issues are
relevant:


0       Itwould be desirable to simulate the evolutionofprimary enrollments necessary to
        achieve the Millenium Development Goal o f universal primary completion, no later than
        by 2015.
0       The Ministryintendsto reduce class size at the primary level, and to increase the
        proportiono f trained teachers at the primary level. These factors will increase the cost to
        the Government ofprimary education.


                                                   - 30 -

a       The share o fthe budget goingto the non-instructional purpose o f feeding is substantial,
        and deserves scrutiny.
a        One likely consequence o f primary enrollment expansion i s increased enrollment at the
         secondary level. Onthe other hand, secondary education displays inefficiency -teachers
        teach too few class periods, and pupil/teacher ratios are low.
a       The experience o f other countries where Government budget allocations to universities
        have been cut, without any other reforms, i s that the institutions slide into illiquidity, and
         quality suffers. There i s a need for strategic planning (including financial planning) at
        NULthat is consistent withthe Government's intentions concerninglong-term support
         for higher education.
a        Bursaries are means-tested for secondary students, but not for tertiary students. This
         seems inconsistent. One way to free up a greater share o f the budget for primary and
         secondary education would be to introduce means-testing for tertiary student bursaries.

These issues will be the subject o f dialogue betweenthe Ministryand the Bank supervision team
duringthe supervision stage o fPhase11. Despite the fact that NMDS is under a different
Ministry,it will be important for NMDSto bebrought into the MTEFprocess for the education
sector.

Fiscal Impact:

Please see above.

3. Technical:
Curriculum and assessment. A number o f ongoing changes-such as revisions to the primary
level curriculum, transfer o f the Primary School LeavingExaminations to the Examination
Council o f Lesotho (ECOL), the move toward localizing end-of-secondary examinations, and the
development o f a National Assessment system-have placed the National Curriculum
Development Center NCDC) and ECOL under great pressure. The establishment o f a national
curriculum and assessmentpolicy framework would help to guide the future work o f the
institutions and also help to prevent tensions inthe system. However, the development o f such
framework turns out to be more complex thanoriginally envisaged. The ESDP I1Phase Ihas
experienced delay. Continued technical and financial support is critical to ensure the successful
implementation o f this important quality aspect o f the ESDP 11.

Textbooks. Usingits own resources, the GOL has developed one o f the most viable primary
textbook provision schemes inAfrica. The GOL established a primary textbook revolving fund
byprovidingseedmoney for the purchase of a start-up set o f textbooks; parents thenpaid an
annual user fee, which providedthe income to purchase replacement copies as and when
required. This system has been very successful. However, with the introductiono f Free Primary
Education in 1999,parental book user fees have been effectively abolished for Standards 1-3 and
will be abolished for all Standards by2006. GOL has agreed to finance the additional textbooks
requiredto cater for new enrolment and for the continuous replenishment o f all core primary
textbooks as required.While inthe long term the GOL will make adequate allocation o f its
education recurrent budgetfor textbook provision, it i s important that ESDP I1supports the
financing o f the additional copies required for increased enrollment and the annual replenishment


                                                   -31 -

o f existing textbook stock so that the primary book to pupil ratios will be maintained at least at
5:l.

However, the changes from a parent funded textbook provision scheme to a free textbook scheme
requires that the current management structure and systems o f the School Supplies Unit (SSU)
should be reviewed and streamlined inorder to achieve important cost reductions inprocurement
and improved efficiencies inoperation. Thus, at the primary level ESDP I1will work with the
SSU and NCDC to develop and introduce a competitive evaluation, approval and procurement
system inwhich price will be a significant factor inevaluation. ESDP I1will also support a move
toward the approval o f more than one competing textbook for each standard and subject inorder
to remove the current monopolistic system. Infinancing and distribution there should also be a
move towards a demand-oriented system through the introduction o f notional per capita textbook
budgets for every school so that schools can decide for themselves what their ordering priorities
should be from the MOET list o f approvedtextbooks and teachers' guides.

Further, the highcost o f secondary educationhas beenrepeatedly identifiedas the most
important reasonwhy many children do not enroll in secondary schools. The highcost o f
secondary textbooks i s a major cause o f the highcost o f secondary education to parents and i s a
major inhibitingfactor for the majority o f Basotho households: annual book provision costs can
be as highas Maloti1,OOO (US$125) for a secondary student. Basedon the successful experience
with the primarytextbook revolvingfund, the Ministryo fEducation intends to launch a core
textbook rental scheme, initially for junior secondary education. At the request o f the Ministryo f
Education, IDA will finance the purchase o f the initial stock o f core secondary textbooks after
MOETLDA approves a revised list o f suitable core textbooks. This will also require work with
NCDC to design and introduce a newtextbook evaluation and approval system for junior
secondary, which will establish price as a significant factor inevaluation and result inbase line
competitive prices with an agreed formula for annual inflationary price increases and
standardized discounts for quantity orders. This will create downward pressure on the textbook
prices charged to the school system

Teacher developmentand support. ESDP I1Phase I1will continue to support efforts to increase
LCE'scapacity to produce Primary Diploma teachers through the Distance Teacher Education
Project which was launched inJanuary 2002. The Ministry i s faced with the challenge o f
upgrading qualifications for those who are either unqualifiedor underqualifed. About 25% o f the
serving primary teachers (more than 2000) do not yet have a Diploma and are therefore
considered either unqualifiedor underqualified. The recently launched Distance Teacher
Education project was designed to expedite this process. It i s expected that the first 500 Diploma
teachers will graduate in2005 from the DTEP and thereafter at least 250 annually.
Inthe past, very little hasbeendone to refreshteachers' knowledge andskills due to the lack of
resources and the MOE giving priority to upgrading teachers' qualifications. The ESDP I1Phase
I1 will support the in-service o f Math, Science and Englishteachers inall primary and secondary
schools.




                                                - 32 -

School-level management. ESDP I1will continue to support the Ministry's decentralization
process by strengthening school-level management. By decree o f the 1995 Education Act, all
primary schools are to establish PrimaryAdvisory Committees and a cluster o f church primary
schools will establish a Primary Management Committee, and secondary schools are to establish
Secondary School Boards. An important objective o f this policy i s to increase parental
participation inthe management o f schools. The ESDP I1Phase Ihad finished training all the
committees and boards. Evaluation o f the impact o f training i s currently underway and new
priorities in capacity buildingwill be identifiedand supported by the ESDP I1Phase 11. Further,
since the membership o f these committees expire in3 years, there i s a need to continuously train
the renewed committees.

The project also aims to involve parents inthe process o f classroom construction as a way to
buildownership. A community approachwill be piloted for primary school construction.

FulfUment of Phase I triggersfor moving into Phase II. At the time o f designing Phase I,      it
was agreed that six trigger indicators would have to be achieved before GOL can qualify for
Phase I1support. Despite the achievement noted above, we presently expect that only three o f
the six triggers qualifying the GOL for a second IDA credit will be fulfilled by the end o f ESDP
I1Phase I.Therefore, Boardapproval for Phase I1will be necessary. The fulfillment o ftriggers
i s briefly summarized below. Details o f trigger fulfillment are contained inAnnex 11 o f the
PAD.

     Trigger 1:Primary Net Enrollment Ratio (increase the NERfrom 68% in 1999 to 73% by
     the end of theproject). The Bank team reported satisfactory progress on this trigger. Based
     on the 2001 Lesotho Demographic Survey and 2002 Core Welfare Questionnaire Indicator
     Survey, the primary net enrollment ratio inLesotho has reached 85%.

     Trigger 2: MTEF "used" and Percentages of Expenditure (increase the expenditures of
     primary and secondary subsectors combinedfrom 68% in 1999 to 70%). The Ministry o f
     Education and Training has definitelymet the "process" trigger o f implementingthe MTEF.
     The question is whether they met the "outcome" trigger relatingto budget allocation and
     expenditures for primary and secondary education. Duringthe period of 1999 to 2002, there
     was progress inincreasing the share o f education recurrent budgetdevoted to primary and
     secondary education from 57% to about 61%. However, the unexpected doubling o f NMDS
     budget in2003 has again reduced the share o f primary and secondary education to 57.7%,
     back to the level o f 1999. As indicated inAnnex 4, despite the fact that NMDS i s under a
     different Ministry, it will be important for NMDSto be brought into the MTEFprocess for
     the education sector inthe future. This important issue will be the subject of dialogue
     between the Ministryand the Bank supervision team duringthe supervision stage.

     Trigger 3: "At least 75% of School Advisory and Management Committeesfor primary
     and secondary schoolsfunctioning satisfactorily by December 2001 (assessed
     independently)  ".  Impact assessment i s being conducted.




                                                  - 33 -

    Triggers 4 and 5: "Technical and Vocational Education Act in place by December 2000"
   and "Afinancial management andperformance monitoring systemfor TVET in place by
   June 2002". These two triggers will not be fulfilled by December 2003. Factors
   contributing to the unsatisfactoryperformance o f the TVET sub-sector, as stated inSection B
    2.1 o f this PAD, include the lack o f a TVET reform champion, the lack o f sustained technical
    assistance, and the fact that reforms inTVET are complex and can take as long as 10 to 15
    years. It i s necessary to continue laying the foundation for TVET reform duringPhase 11.
    Support for TVET inPhase I1will be coupled with long-termtechnical assistance to the
    Ministry.

    Trigger 6: "NFEAct approved; operational guidelines issued and options defined by
   December 2001      ".This trigger is unlikelyto be fulfilled. Prior to the introduction of Free
    Primary Education, non-formal education was identified as a priority for the Ministry o f
    Education to achieve its EFA goals. The introduction o f FPE has successfully brought into
    the formal school systemmany o f the children who could not afford schooling before. There
    i s now a need to re-orient non-formal education from a predominantly literacy program for
    childrenwho could not afford formal schooling to a skills development program for adults
    who are beyond the age of formal schooling. ESDP I1Phase I1will continue to support the
    LearningPost pilot intwo districts, but now with an emphasis beyond basic literacy and
    numeracy.

4. Institutional:
The MOEThas a relatively good record ofproject implementation. However, the MOET faces
persistent problems o f weak capacity. This is partially due to an inabilityto retain highly skilled
professionals because they often leave to take advantage o f better payingjob opportunities inthe
private sector or South Africa. To offset capacity weaknesses, TA engaged for previous projects
will be maintained as necessary under the proposedproject. The TA referred to here means
professionals, both Basotho and others, who work outside o f the public service. For example, as
noted earlier, the positiono f Project Coordinator will be temporarily maintained so that the
Project Coordinator will assist the PS and Director o f Planning inthe overall coordination o f
project activities. Further, MOET'scapacity for procurement o f civil works and services has
been strengthened substantially duringprevious projects, the existing TA for civil works will also
be maintained. Furthermore, covenants require the government to maintain staffing levels o f key
implementingunits, for example, the PlanningUnit,Accounts Section. The project anticipates
providing management and other technical training for servingofficers inkeyunitsto improve
their efficiency.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Project will be executed by the relevantprograms of the Ministryo f Education and Training,
under the overall leadership o f the Principal Secretary.
4.2 Project management:
The Project will be coordinated by the Director o f Planning. The MOET Senior Management
Committee, chaired by the PS, will have the responsibility for project management and will
ensure full integration o f the implementation process into the regular operations o f the MOET.
Task Force may be established from time to time to provide technical guidance to specific issues.


                                                 - 34 -

4.3 Procurement issues:
Support from the IDA-financed Education Sector Development Project (ESDP) Iand the first
phase o f ESDP I1has greatly strengthened the procurement capacity o f the Ministryo f Education
and Training. The Education Facility Unit i s incharge o f procurement o f civil works as well as
goods. There i s currently a contract manager and a procurement manager. Coordination o f the
procurement o f goods and civil works is being providedby a technical advisor. The Project
Coordinator incharge o f procuring consultants, training, workshops, and study tours. Improved
coordination may be necessary among various procurement activities. This may be achieved by
appointing an overall procurement coordinator from the existing EFUstaff. Basedon the
excellent performance inprocurement exhibited by EFU, the Procurement Specialist has
approved raising o f thresholds for ICB for civil works to US$750,000. Details o f the
procurement arrangement can be found inthe procurement Annex 6(A).

Procurement o f textbooks for primary and secondary education could be complex. ICB will be
used for textbooks which can be procured from the international market. Since the number o f
publishers represented inLesotho is small and there may be little interest among other firms to
compete for relatively small contracts, LimitedInternational Bidding(LIB)may be used.
Individual contracts will be usually below the threshold o f US$200,000 equivalent.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Responsibility for the financial management o f the project lies with the MOET, through its
Project Coordination and Support Unit (PCSU), as was the case with the previous phase.

Accounting systems and the related pillars o f internal control are already hlly established.
Competent staff with the experience o f runningthe previous Bank supported phase i s being
retained, as are the provenfund flow mechanisms used inthat phase.

New computer software is beingintroduced to enhance both control and the accuracy o f record
keeping. Prior to this, record keeping was largely manual, with only certain reports being
generated inExcel. All staff will therefore require training inthe use o f the new software, as
well as general training on accounting ina computerized environment.

Inaddition, the project will berequiredto produce FinancialMonitoringReports (FMRs). While
the new software will go some way towards facilitatingthis, the present accounting staffwill
require some training and mentoring inthe design and production o f FMRs.

The existing external audit arrangements are adequate, with a statutory audit carried out annually
bythe country's Auditor General on terms acceptable to the Bank. The annual audits will thus
continue to be due at the end of September o f each year, which is six months after the end o f the
fiscal year.

Disbursement. The project is expected to continue to operate three bank accounts as follows:

1. The Special Account (USD) heldat the Lesotho Central Bank for transfers to the local


                                                - 35 -

    currency account and payments to foreign suppliers,
2. Local currency (maloti) account at the Lesotho Central Bank for receiving transfers from the
    Special Account, and makingmaloti payments to local suppliers,
3. Local currency (maloti) account at the Lesotho Central Bank for housing counterpart hnds.

Disbursements from the loan will be made based on traditional disbursement methods (Le. from
the Special Account with reimbursementsmade based on Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs), as
well as direct payments from the Loan Account where appropriate). FMRsproduced will
therefore essentially be a reporting tool until such time as the quality o f reporting i s deemed
sufficiently highto support replenishment requests. The project however has to demonstrate the
ability to produce FMRsbefore any disbursements from the credit can occur (see Annex 6 for the
detailed financial management action plan).
5. Environmental:                          Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The Borrower has carried out an Environmental Analysis (EA) which addressespotential
environmental and social impacts due to the construction o f classrooms and related facilities.
The EA includes (i)   an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) for
classroom construction and hostels; (ii)      an Environmental Mitigation Plan for the project; and
(iv) a ResettlementPolicy Framework.
5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
The ESMF identifiedand assessedto the extent possible, potential environmental and social
imacts and appropriate mitigationmeasures and presentedthis inthe form o f a generic checklist
developed. It also developed an environmental and social screening form that would assist in
determining potential adverse environmental and social impacts duringproject implementation
pertaining to project activities. The ESMFpresents definitive, conclusive and clear procedures
consistent with the Laws o f Lesotho and the World Bank Safeguard Policies.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                   Date o f receipt o f final draft:
Final report o f ESMF was received on April 10,2003.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms o f consultation that were usedand which groups were consulted?
Relevant Ministries, MOET officials, Education Facilities Unit, communities, and other
stakeholders have been consulted inthe development o f the ESMF. Mechanisms o f consultation
include workshops, briefings, and informal consultations.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
For the construction o f schools and hostels, the ESMFestablishes the screening process
mechanism to enable the local community and the Education Facilities Unit (EFU) to
simultaneously identify adverse potential environmental and social impacts o f their activities and
to address them by incorporating the relevant mitigationmeasures into the designs before they
submitthem for review and subsequent approval. The main features o fthis mechanismrequires


                                                    - 36 -

project implementers to screen their projects at the preparation stage usingthe screening forms
developed and the environmental and social checklists developed to identify potential adverse
effectshmpacts. The ESMF including the Resettlement Policy Framework has been approved by
the relevant department inthe World Bank.


6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The key social issue relevant to the project objectives i s the schooling outcome o f the
disadvantagedgroups inLesotho. The achievement o f the project development objectives will
be measuredby the improvement inprimary completion rate, primary net intake rate, and ECCD
coverage rate. This means that the project social development outcome will be positive since any
improvement inthese rates will mean that those who were not able to enroll and complete
primary schools are now able to do so. Further, inthe designo f three important components, the
project targetted assistance to those who are most inneed. These include the selection o f sites
for school construction, the award o fbursary, and expansion o f ECCD home-based care. The
targeting o f assistance will help achieve the social development outcome further.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
The ESDP I1is designedbythe MinistryofEducation and Training with financial and technical
support from the World Bank. Duringthe preparation, the Ministry consulted widely with a
range o f education stakeholders, including MOET officials at the district and central level,
teachers, students, and parents. Duringthe implementation o f Phase I,       the MOET has maintained
such consultation and communication with the stakeholders. Further, various components o f the
ESDP I1such as training, ECCD home-based care, the DTEP have built-inevaluation and
stakeholders are able to voice their views through the evaluation. Finally, stakeholders are able to
provide constant feedback to the project through the semi-annual Bank supervision missions
which normally plan on meeting with key stakeholders.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The ESDP I1does not have a systematic method o f consulting and collaborating with the NGOs
or other civil society organizations. The NGOs and other organiations are considered one o f the
stakeholders. However, the MOET has consulted extensively with Save the Childrensince it has
experience inadministering a bursary scheme for secondary school children. The MOET also
consulted many NGOswhich provide non-formal education.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
For the overall project, the MOETEMISwill provide ongoing informationon how the
disadvantagedgroups are affected by the intervention. The primary and secondary school
mappingexcercise will provide up-to-date information on where new schools are most needed,
The scholarship component will be managedby a scholarship committee at the central level and
scholarship officers at the district level. The nominations will come from communities and
verified by schools.



                                                 - 37 -

6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes?
The Monitoring and Evaluation subcomponent o f the project and the MOET'songoing Education
Management Information System (EMIS) will provide annual data to monitor the schooling
outcomes o f the disadvantaged groups.

7. Safeguard Policies:




    Safety of Dams(OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                       C; Yes    NO
    Projectsin International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)           \-'Yes    NO
    Projectsin DisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                 /-\Yes    NO


7.2 Describe provisions madeby the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.
Environmental Assessment and Resettlement Policy Framework have been developed for the
project. See Section E.5. The other safeguard policies are not triggered.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Inorder to achieve its development impact, aproject should be implementedinanenvironment
that is politically, socially and economically conducive. Beyondthis, strong human and
institutionalcapacity need to be inplace. As inalmost every country, political instabilitycould
present a major external risk to the project. However, following the civil unrest in September
1998,the security situation inLesotho has stabilized and the different political parties seem to be
working together for the good o f the nation. A peaceful election was heldinMay 2002.

The lack of financial sustainability represents a potential risk.The GOL recurrent budget
allocated to education has been around 28%, highcompared to other countries. A further
increase o f education's share seems unlikely. Equitable allocation within the education sector i s
critical to ensure adequate funding for priority areas. Inparticular, the expenditures on basic
education need to be protected and hrther increasedrelative to the tertiary sector. The MOET
will use MTEF as a tool to monitor the intrasectoral allocation and ensure adequate funding for
primary and secondary education.

The MOET may lack sufficient capacity to implement the program. Inpart due to the loss o f
people who go to South Africa for better payingjobs, there i s a highturnover rate inthe GOL
bureaucracy. This results invacancies inkey units which often take a long time to fill. Inorder to



                                                  - 38 -

fillcrucial gapsincapacity, theMOEToftenresorts to employing technical assistance(TA).
Sustaining bureaucratic efficiency on the basis o f TA poses a moral hazard and contributes to the
lack o f staffing continuity inthe MOET. Institutional capacity i s especially problematic inthe
Planning Unit. The proposedproject will be very selective inthe use o f TA and emphasize
strengthening local capacity.

The highlevel o f HIV/AIDSprevalence rate posts another significant risk to the education sector.
The epidemic will result inthe loss o f a significant number o f teachers, inspectors, advisors, and
other MOET officials. It will also affect the population o f school-age children. Further, it also
means that a healthy Basotho will have to support more sick people and orphans. The
implicationfor education i s thus huge. The project will support a study o f the impact o f
HIV/AIDS on education which will be used to develop a comprehensive HIV/AIDSpolicy in
education.

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptionsfound inthe fourth column of Annex 1):
                   Risk                           Risk Rating                 Risk Mitigation Measure
 From Outputs to Objective
Education stakeholdersmay not                         M          information dissemination; regular consultation
cooperate                                                        Jetween MOET and stakeholders
 Secular decline ineconomic growth                    M          Sustained dialogue with private sector to
could reduceGOL investments inthe                                diversify financing; dialogue with GOL to
education sector                                                 Ensure investment-friendly legislation
 GOL may not allocate adequate funds to                N         Regularly conduct PER and allocateresources
priority subsectors                                              accordingto annualMTEF
HighHIV/AIDS prevalencemay mean                        S         StrengthenHIViAIDS activities coordination;
heavy loss of capacity within MOE                                regularconsultation with stakeholders; and
                                                                 develop comprehensive HIV/AIDSpolicy in
                                                                 education

 Weak institutional capacity may inhibit               M         Conductneeds assessment andcomplete
project implementation                                           recruitment; sustain staffing levels inkey units;
                                                                 implement training program for key personnel;
                                                                 engage T A as needed
 Lack of experience inimplmenting                      S         Informationdissemination; consultation with
 innovation funds inTVET and higher                              stakeholders; coordinating with other
 educationmay weaken the                                         development partners who have experience in
 implementation of the component                                 Lesotho andregionally; engage TA as needed
 Overall Risk Rating                                   M
Risk Rating H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ris
           -                                  M (Modest Risk), N Jegligible or Low Risk)


3. Possible Controversial Aspects:

None.




                                                     - 39 -

G. Main Creditconditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
None.

Conditions for Negotiations
0  Agreement on the format and content o f Financial Monitoring Reports (fulfilled duringthe
   appraisal by April 22,2003)
0  Procurement Plan for the 1st year o f project implementation (fulfilled duringthe appraisal
   mission byApril 22, 2003)
0  Project Implementation Manual developed and agreed with IDA (fulfilled duringthe
   appraisal mission by April 22,2003)
0  MOET Stafftrainingplandeveloped and agreed with IDA (fulfilled duringthe appraisal
   mission by April 22,2003)

2. Other [classify according to covenant types usedinthe Legal Agreements.]
Covenants:

0  The Government shall implement the Project inaccordance with the procedures, guidelines,
   timetables and criteria set forth inthe PIM, except as IDA shall otherwise agree.
0  The Government shall maintainpolicies andprocedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
   evaluate on an ongoing basis, inaccordance with the performance indicators agreed.
0  The Government and IDA shall carry out an annual review o f the Project every year
   commencing October 31,2004.
0  The Government and IDA shall carry out a mid-term review of the Project no later than
   September 30,2005.
0  The Government will cause PSCUto have its records, accounts and financial statements
   audited each year, commencing with the accounts for the year ending March 2004.
0  The PSCU will submit quarterly FMRs, starting with the first quarter after effectiveness.
0  MTEFimplemented annually, PERupdatedregularly, andthe share o feducation budget for
   primary and secondary education will reach 65% by 2007.
0  Policy documents for ECCD, TVET, Higher Education, and HIV/AIDS formulated by June
   30,2005

H. Readiness for Implementation
   1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
c       start o f project implementation.
   1.b) Not applicable.

   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start o f

3     project implementation.
  3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory

74.   quality.
     The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):




                                                 -40-

I. Compliancewith Bank Policies

a2.The
k1.ThisprojectcomplieswithallapplicableBankpolicies.
        following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
     with all other applicableBankpolicies.




                     w q                                                            e/--
Xiaoyan &ang            c-          Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                  Fayez S. Omar
Team Leader                          Sector ManagerlDirector              Country ManagerlDirector




                                              -41 -

                                Annex 1: Project Design Summary
               LESOTHO: Second Education Sector Development Project (Phase II)




Poverty reduction through  Student enrollment and
investing inhumanresources performance data
development




The education system will
produce more and better
educated and functionally
literate Basotho                                             project evaluation for each

                           reach 90%                         include MOET annual school
                                                             statistics from EMIS, national

                           ratio increasedto 93%             Statistics, and other studies
                                                             which will be carried out


                           60%

                            5. Performance innational
                           achievement tests improved on
                           average by 20%

                           (See detailed list o f indicators
                           and technical notes inAnnex
                            12.)




                                                         - 42 -

                                        Key Performance           Data Collection Strategy
                                            Indicators
I v e l o p m e n t               Outcome I Impact                'roject reports:         From Objective to Purpose)
 Objective:                       Indicators:
 To further improve the access, 1. ECCD coverage increased        {MIS, Census             upport for the ESDP I1is
 equity, and quality o f primary from 31% in2002to 40% in                                  ustainedthrough Phase 111;
 and secondary education,         2007                                                     larentswill enroll their
 promote lifelong leaming by                                                               hildren inECCD, primary
 capacity building inECCD,        2. Primary completion rate      !MIS                     ndsecondary education;
 TVET, higher andnonformal        increased from 77% in2001
 education, and strengthening     to 83% in2007;
 the institutional capacity o fthe
 Ministryof Education             3. Primary net enrollment ratio !MIS
                                  increased from 85% in2001 to
                                  90% in2007

                                  4. Lower secondary coverage     tesults from National
                                  increased from 43% to 50% in jtandardized Tests
                                  2007

                                  5. Average scores o f national
                                  achievement tests inprimary
                                  (3&6) Math, English,and
                                  Sesotho improved by at least
                                  15%

                                  6. Share o f total education
                                  recurrent budget (including
                                  NMPS) devoted to primary
                                  and secondary education
                                  increased from 57% to 65%
                                  in2007

                                  7. Adequate legal and
                                  regulatory framework
                                  conducive to establishing a
                                  demand-driven TVET system
                                  inplace.

                                  (See Annex 12 for detailed list
                                  of indicators and technical
                                  notes)




                                                              -43-

                                                                Data Collection Strategy

btput from each               Output Indicators:              'roject reports:               'rom Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
, PRIMARY EDUCATION

.Constructionand provision 252 primary classrooms              3FU constructioncompletion    chools fully utilized once
fclassroom                    constructed, (2 schools using    .eports and site visits       ley are built
umitureiequipment             community approach)

. Targetted Equity-based      10,000 bursaries to be paid for
'rogram                       2003

                              DTEP beneficiary database        latabase
                              developed

                               10,000 bursariesprovided for    :eceipts                      iursaries are given to needy
                              orphans and other needy upper                                  tudents only
                              primary students by 2005

                              Evaluation o fthe bursary        3udit reports
                              scheme

                              Needs assessment for inclusive report
                               education conducted by
                               December 2003


                               Procure core textbooks to       Delivery records and
 . Essential teaching/learning maintainprimary                 distribution records, EMIS    3ooks are utilized by students
naterials provided for basic   pupi1:textbook ratio o f 1:5                                   mdteachers
,ducation                      throughyearly replenishment
                               of core textbooks

                               InspectionManual usedand        review and adoption o f review
.. Primary School inspection reviewed every two years from
.ndadvisory services           2004

                               3 day in-service training for 5 training attendance records
                               primary teachers per school                                    reachers are able to apply the
                               (focusing on teachers teaching                                 mowledge and skills inthe
                               Mathematics, Science,                                          :lassroom
                               English, Sesotho, and Social
                               Sciences) heldbi-annually at
                               local dissemination centers
                               (there are a total o f 1400
                               primary schools inLesotho)

                               One week In-service workshop training attendance records
                               held annually for 40 primary                                   3ach primary schol inspected
                               inspectors and 5 Special                                       ince every 3 years
                               Education Inspectors and
                               PIEP Coordinator




                                                           -44-

                             3ne week In-service            aining attendance records
                             workshops heldannually for                                  ich primary school assisted4
                             85 primary advisors                                         nes a year




                             400 primary principals trained  aining records, EMIS
. School Management          inschool management every                                   ,incipals can apply new
primary)                     year from 2004 to 2007                                      iowledge and skills in
                                                                                         hools
                             100primary school              ,ainingrecords, EMIS
                             Management Committees
                             trained

                             DTEP materials review and      iraduates records
. Distance Teacher           development and production                                  11DTEPtutors deployed to
ducation Project continually (Year 4)                                                     e districts
ipported
                             Support to DTEP                 {orkshop reports
                              mplementation (8 in-house
                              vorkshops per year)

                              ITEP administrative and        tudent management system in
                              inancial management            llace and operational
                               trengthened

                              ITEP learner support
                              mproved through
                              #trengtheningo f 10 DRTs (see
                              Iutput4)

                               ntegrated curriculum and      ipproved framework
                               issessment framework
 . Basic education curriculum  ipproved
mdexamination improved
                              Revise and implement C&A      packages developed
                              packages for ECCD, primary,
                              secondary, and TVET and
                              localize for senior secondary

                              Implement national assessme)   workshop reports
                              for primary and secondary



[I. SECONDARY
EDUCTION

1. Construction and provisior 3 government secondary         EFUconstruction completion   Zacilites fully utilized once
D f classroom                  schools constructed, one for  reports and site visits      hey are built
furniture/equipment           each o f the following three
                               districts: Mokhotlong,
                               Thaba-Tseka, and Berea



                                                          -45-

. Targetted Equity-based    500 bursaries to be paid for       ierification excercise and     iursaries are given to needy
rogram                      1003                               iudit reports                  tudents only

                             ITEP beneficiary database         latabase
                             leveloped

                             .t least 2500 bursaries           iudit reports
                             wovided for orphans and other
                             ieedy secondary school
                             tudents by 2007

                             ?valuationo f the bursary         'eport
                             icheme

                             qeeds assessment for inclusive ieport
                             :ducation conducted by
                             Iecember 2003

                             inother pilot establishedto       Pilot established
                             nclude more out-of-school
                             :hildren

 . Essentialteachinglearning Support to establish              SSU and school records         Books are utilized by students
naterials provided for       ;chool-based secondary                                           andteachers
econdary education           .evolvingfund for core
                              extbooks


.. Secondary school           5 day in-service training for 4  Training attendance records     Teachers are able to apply the
nspection and advisory        Secondary teachers per school     and training evaluation        knowledge and skills inthe
ervices                       :focusing on teachers teaching                                   classroom
                              Mathematics, Science, Englisb
                              mdManagement) held
                              3i-annually at local
                              ilisseminationcenters (a total
                              3 f250 secondary schools)

                              3ne week in-service workshol      training attendance records    Each secondary school
                              held annually for 20 secondar]    and training evaluation        inspected once every 3 years
                              inspectors

                              One week in-service               training attendance records    Each secondary school
                              workshops held annually for       and training evaluation        assisted 4 times a year
                              17 secondary advisors

 i. School management         500 secondary school              training records and training
 secondary)                   principals and deputies trainec   evaluation
                              inschool management by
                              2007
                                                                training records and training
                              30 Secondary School Boards        evaluation
                              trained




                                                           - 4 6 -

:I. LIFELONG LEARNING


. Expansiono f ECD Strategy Home-based centers establised   )ases established             TTs agree to participate in
eveloped and implemented     n6 remainingdistricts (2                                     me-based care
                             3ases per district) through
                             :ommunity mobilization

                             Home-basedmanuals & other
                             3asic materials procured and   nanuals
                             iistributed

                             [n-service workshop held
                             innually for 185 NTT and       workshop reports
                             DTT and ART at 80
                             iissemination centers

                             rraining o f home-based
                             :aretakers and parents for eacEtraining records
                             home-based care inthe
                             premise

                             Development o f ECCD
                             teacher in-service diploma     Program developed
                             program in collaboration with
                             LCEandDTEP


:. Capacity building for     Completion o fTVET policy      Policy document and Act
xhnical and vocational       and legislation
 ducation
                             Completion of the financing    financing mechanism
                             strategy and financial         developed
                             management system

                             Capacity buildingfor TVET      Training records and reports
                             Board

                             Capacity buildingfor TVD       training records and reports

                              Constructiono f TTI hostel    EFUrecords and site visits

                             Establishment o f a TVET       Establishment o f the fund
                              innovations fund

1. Capacity buildngfor higher Disseminationo f Higher       workshop records, equipment
:ducation                     Educaiton Act and              delivery records, training
                              strengthening National        attendance
                              Council for Higher Education

                              Developmento f higher          Policy document
                              education policy framework




                                                         -47-

                            levelopment o f monitoring     idicators developed and
                            ndicators and Collection of    onsultant reports
                            laseline data including
                            :ommissioning o f studies

                            .ncentive fund for tertiary    stablishment o f incentive
                            nstitutions which will be tied md
                            o achievement o f agreed
                            ndicators established

. Non-formal education      Von-formal education learner   valuation reports
                            3ost pilot continued

V. M O E INSTITUTIONAL
'TRENGTHENING

. District Management       District education              olicy guidelines
                            management strengthened

                            Resource needs assessment o f   eport
                            DRTs

                            District Resource Centers each  quipment delivery records     here is proper maintenance a
                            provided with one vehicle, twc                                le DRTs
                            computers and printers, one
                            photocopyingequipment, 200
                            reference books (based on
                            resource needs assessment)

                             Evaluate impact of improved    :valuation report
                             DRCs on education delivery


!. Planning, Monitoring, and Strategic planreviewedand      mgoing revised Strategic Plar
{valuationstrengthened       revisedand annual operational
                             plans inuse from December
                             31.2003

                             MTEF implemented annually,     4nnual MTEF report
                             and PER updated

                             Donor coordination             loint reviews held
                             strengthened

                             EPU capacity for monitoring    3MIS system operational and
                             & evaluation, researchand      ntegrated with GIS
                             policy development
                             strengthened (including EMIS

 5 .Staff Development and    Targeted staff training in     rraining records
 rraining                    strategic areas implemented
                             annually based on agreed
                             training plan

 t. HIViAIDS                 Recruitmento fHIViAIDS         HIV/AIDS intervention


                                                         -48-

                coordinatorfor education     reports

                Study of impacto f HIVIAIDS
                ineducation

                Developmentof HIV/AIDS
                policy for education

r. PROJECT
MPLEMENTATION   Support for PSCUcontinued    PSCUrecords

                Financialandprocurement      systemsinplace and inuse
                managementsystem




                                         - 49 -

                                                             D

'roject ComponentsI             iputs: (budgetfor each      'roject reports:    rom Componentsto
Sub-components:                  omponent)                                      utputs)
 . PRIMARY EDUCATION            including contingencies)

L .Constructionand provision     JS$ 9.95 million
ifclassroom
krnitureiequipment

Z. Targetted Equity-based        JS$ 523,000
Program

3.  Essential teachingileaming   JS$ 210,000
naterials provided for basic
:ducation

$. Primary School inspection     JS$984,000
mdadvisory services

5. School Management             JSS 395,000
:primary)

5. Distance Teacher              JSS 1.45 million
Education Project continually
supported
                                 JS$663,000
7. Basic education curriculum
mdexamination improved


 [I. SECONDARY
 EDUCATION

 1. Construction and provision   JS$ 1.78 million
 o f classroom
 hmiture/equipment

 2. Targetted Equity-based       JS$ 2.57 million
 Program

  3. Essential teachingilearning JS$ 1 million
  materials provided for
  secondary education

  4. Secondary school            JS$353,000
  inspection and advisory
  services

  5. School management           JS$246,000
  (secondary)




                                                         - 50 -

                              US$346,000
111. LIFELONG LEARNING

1. Expansionof ECCD           US$ 1.09million
Strategydevelopedand
implemented

2. Capacity building for      US$400,000
technicaland vocational
education
                              US$330,000
3. Capacity buildng for higher
education

4. Non-formal education

IV. MOET
INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING.
                              US$ 1.03 million
1. District Management
                              US$ 1.82million
2. Planning, Monitoring, and
Evaluationstrengthened
                              US$500,000
3, StaffDevelopmentand
Training
                              USS248,OOO
4. HIV/AIDS

V. PROJECT SUPPORT &
COORDINATION

1. ProjectImplementation      US$ 1.02million

2. Financialand Procurement US$292,000
Management System




                                                 - 51 -

                              Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
            LESOTHO: Second Education Sector Development Project (Phase II)

The development objective o f the proposed ESDP I1Phase T I is to further improve the access,
equity, and quality o fprimary and secondary education, promote lifelong learning through
capacity buildinginECCD, TVET, higher and non-formal education, and continue to strengthen
the MOETinstitutional capacity.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$14.18 million
                     -
PrimaryEducation

Subcomponent 1: Primarv classroom construction. This subcomponent will finance 252 primary
classrooms with related facilities including administrative block, kitchen, latrines, and standard
classroom furniture. At least 70 classrooms will be located inremote "inaccessible" areas with
flexible design to accomodate a smaller populationcatchment. Two schools will be builtusing a
community-based construction approach. Further, an additional 100 science kits will be
procured for schools that were constructed during the ESDP I1Phase Iand schools to be
constructed duringthis phase.

Current informationfrom MOET EMIS shows that the Thaba-Tseka and Maseru Districts seem
to have the highest average pupil to classroom ratios. JICA, AdB, and Ireland Aid have chosen
to target these districts inthe primary school construction program. Therefore, IDA'Sprimary
construction will target Berea, Leribe, and Botha Bothe, where the average school-age population
to classroom ratio i s still more than 60. The same procedures as inPhase Iwill be used to select
sites for Lot 1. Subsequent selection o f sites will be guidedby the GIS system to be developed
within the first year o fproject effectiveness.

Further, community participation inthe construction o f primary schools will be pilotedinat least
two sites. The MOET has been slow inintroducingcommunity participation inits primary school
construction due to confusion over whether direct contracting o f works to local communities or
skilled workers is allowed. The approachhas already been used inZambia, Malawi, and
Tanzania, where the community i s expected to contribute 1520% o f project costs indonated
materials and labor, an elected Project Committee is responsible for getting the project done
including hiringnecessary skilled workers, and a grant is made to the Project Committee.
Community participation has the potential o f sustainability, low cost, and participation. This
approach will be piloted with financial support from ESDP I1Phase 11. An expertwith
experience usingthis approach (a Basotho or someone from the region) may be recruited to assist
inthe settingup andtesting ofcommunity approaches. The consultant will be attachedto the
EFUSpecial Service Section. Factors such as motivation, capacity and willingness o f district
education officers towards the community approach will be includedinthe selection o f sites.

ImplementingUnit: Education Planning Unit, Education Facility Unit




                                                - 52 -

 Subcomponent 2: Targetted Eauity BasedProgram .This component will annually finance up to
 15,000 bursaries to orphans and other disadvantagedchildren inupperprimary and lower
secondary grades. The program will benefit approximately 5% o f students enrolled inupper
primary and secondary grades and about 40% o f the existing orphans based on a recent Core
Welfare Indicator Questionnaire Survey. The number o f bursaries to be awarded to primary
schools will be about 10,000 annually to cover orphans enrolled inthe upper primary grades who
do not benefit from the FPE. With support from the APL Phase I,    the MOET had establisheda
relatively well-functionning institutional arrangement for the implementation o f the bursary
scheme. The National Manpower Development Secretariat (NMDS) under the Ministryo f
Finance and Planning usedto administer a small number o f secondary bursaries. Inthe interest
o f rationalizing bursary programs, it was agreed that the MOET will be the implementingagency
for all primary and secondary bursaries, whereas the NMDS will focus exclusively on tertiary
bursaries.

The MOET, inconsultation with stakeholders will develop an annual budgetand quota o f
scholarships for each district. Basedon the selection criteria specified inthe application form,
recommendations for awards will be made by schools, verifiedby the communities, and
processed by the district-based bursary committee. The Scholarship Officer inthe Central Office
will consolidate the awards, liase with the Project Coordinator on budgeting and disbursement,
and monitor and evaluate the impact o f the scheme, and propose to the Senior Management
necessary revisions to the selection criteria and procedures. Payments are not made to individual
children but to schools. Schools receiving scholarships are required to open a Bank account.

Further,the project will finance the procurement ofabeneficiary databaseto improve the
efficiency o f the bursary administration. Auditingand evaluation o f the scheme will also be
supported.

The bursary scheme mainly targeted at children who are already enrolled inschools but have
difficulty inpayingthe school and other fees. DuringPhase 11, a scheme will be piloted to attract
orphans and other disadvantagedchildren who are currently out o f the school system.

ImplementingUnit: Bursary Officer inconsultation with MOET Bursary Committee

Subcomponent 3: Primary teaching and leamina materials. This component will support the
additional core primary textbooks needed to cater for new primary enrolment and the annual
stock replenishments neededto maintain the primary book to pupilratio at least at 5: I

Lesotho currently has a relatively successfulprimary textbook rental scheme supported by a
sustainable textbook revolving fund, which has operated since the mid 1980s. The rental fees
collected from parents are held inthe revolving fund managedby the School Supplies Unit o f the
MOET and are usedto purchase the additional copies required for increasedprimary enrolments
and the normal annual replenishment to replace copies that are no longer usable. Since the
introductiono f Free Primary Education in 1999 book rental fees are being progressively phased
out. As a result, the income to the revolving fund declines every year and the revolving fund, and
thusthe textbook rental scheme are no longer financially sustainable without direct GOL/donor



                                                - 53 -

financial support. However, the fiscal situation o f the GOL has not allowed the required
compensation to be paid to the SSU for the loss o f its rental income. At the request o f the MOET
the ESDP I1PhaseIpurchasedadditional copies ofcore textbooks. The proposedESDP I1Phase
I1will continue to do so. However, it is agreedthat only 5 core textbooks for each Standard will
be financed by ESDP I1Phase 11.Inaddition, existing textbook evaluation, approval and
procurement procedures will be reviewed and reformed to provide the MOE with much greater
control over input prices. The current monopoly system o f textbook supply will be replaced with
the introduction o fcompeting, altemative textbooks for each subject ineach standard. These
reforms should provide the basis for greater control o f input costs while maintaining an emphasis
on content and presentational quality. At school level decentralised textbook selection will be
required as essential support for the introduction o f competing altemative textbooks. This intum
will require the introductiono f notional per capita textbook purchasing power for each school
and the development o f school ordering within their allocated budgets plus centralised order
consolidation and procurement by the SSU. These structural changes will reduce unit textbook
costs, maintain or improve content quality and will provide significant efficiency and operational
improvements. The provisiono f school based purchasing power and the development o f
decentralised school ordering will probably requirethe development o f a national primary
textbook fund or budget line, into which funds from donors and the MOE can be pooledto meet
annual textbook financing requirements

Implementing Unit: School SupplyUnit inclose liaisonwith the Primary Inspectorate and
NCDC

Sub-component 4: Primary school support through decentralized inspection and advisory
services. This component will finance (a) a refresher course for primary teachers incore subjects
once every two years and (b) annual training o f primary inspectors and advisors.

Under ESDP I1Phase I,    emphasis o f teacher education has beenprimarily on pre-service and
in-service o funder-qualified and unqualifiedteachers through the Distance Teacher Education
Program. Little has been done to provide on-going pedagogical support for practising teachers.
Duringthis phase, the ESDP I1will support a refreshercourse for allprimaryteachers ofMath,
English,and Sciences. Private andpublic tertiary institutions will be invitedto develop various
modules and train the teachers so that the burdeno f training does not fall entirely on the
inspectors.

There are a total o fabout 1400primary schools inLesotho and almost 7500 teachers teaching
core subjects including Math, English, Science, Sesotho and life skills. The refresher courses
will be non-residential and will be conducted inthe 80 dissemination centers existing throughout
the country.

Also under Phase I,a review o f primary inspection and advisory services was undertaken by the
consulting firm Multi-serve. Useful recommendations were made to the Ministry and the
Ministryisreadyto take up some ofthe recommendations including(a) the adoption ofnew
inspection manuals, (b) decentralizing the primary inspectors to the districts, and (c) revise the
primary advisory services. The ESDP I1Phase I1will support the implementation o f these


                                                - 54 -

recommendations, includingthe training o f 45 primary inspectors and 85 primary advisors inthe
use o f new inspection manuals and other monitoring tools. The training will be designed based
on findings and recommendations from the Multi-serve review.

The traininginthis component will require sophisticated coordination incontent and sequencing
and to make sure that all activities lead to improvement inclassroom teaching and learning. A
Task Force comprising of primary inspectors, district education officers, primary advisors, and
teachers will be established. The Task Force will be provided with technical assistance ifneeded
and will prepare a detailed implementation plan for all the training activities concerning primary
teachers, inspectors, and advisors duringthe 4-year period.

ImplementingUnit: FieldInspectorate

Subcomponent 5: Primary school management. This component will finance the continuous
training o f school management (principals and their deputies, and primary management
committees).

Since the 1995 Education Law, primary school governance inLesotho is comprised o f a School
Advisory Committee and School Management Committee for church schools. Government
schools, on the other hand, are governed by only one management committee per school. Both
committees have representationby school principals, proprietors, teachers, and parents. Every
school i s to have a School Advisory Committee. The School Management Committee ususally
governs more than one school. Underthe ESDP I1Phase I,all existingprimary advisory and
management committees were trained ingeneral and financial management. However, the
membership o f the committee expires every 3 years so there is a continuous need to train the
newlyelected committees. Since it is expected that many committee members will be re-elected,
the magnitude o f training will be much smaller. Following a needs assessment, the project will
finance the training of 100primary management committees annually ingeneral and financial
management o f schools.

Increasedemphasis on the school-level management also place muchmore responsibility on
primary principals and their deputies, who are now also expected to assist inthe implementation
o f the bursary scheme, Free Primary Education, school-based distance teacher education
program,HIV/AIDS counseling, beyond their normal workload. Unfortunately most o f the
principals and deputies are not well trained for theirjobs. Following a needs assessment, Phase
I1ofthe ESDP I1will finance the designandtrainingo f400 schoolprincipals and their deputies.
The focus of the training for the principles will be coordinated with the inspector and teacher
training inthe last subcomponent and will be oriented toward providingpedagogical support to
teaching and learning. The primary inspectoratewill finalize the training priorities in
consultation with the MOET Senior Management and IDA. Training may be outsourced.

ImplementingUnit: Field Inspectorate




                                                 - 55 -

Subcomponent 6: Distance Teacher Education Program. As o f 2001, about 25% o f Lesotho's
8225 primary teachers are still not qualified, meaning they have a below diploma level education.
This component will continue to support the DistanceTeacher Education Program (DTEP) which
has been supported by the ESDP I1Phase Iand launched inJanuary 2002. It i s expected that the
first cohort o f 500 teachers will graduate with diploma degrees inDecember 2005 and
subsequently a minimumo f 250 teachers will graduate annually.

The ESDP I1Phase I1will continue to support the following areas a) curriculum and materials
development and review, (b) training o f tutors; (c) learner support (through the equippingo f
District Resource Centers); and (d) strengthening o f DTEP administrative and financial
management.

The DTEP is currently designed as a 4-year program. Its curriculum is largely basedon the
full-time pre-service program but its mode o f delivery can be described as largely via distance
education with "sandwich" residential courses inbetween. The objective o f the programi s to
upgrade qualifications through a distance learning mode to both underqualified and unqualified
teachers. At the initial stage o f program development, technical assistance was provided to the
Lesotho College o f Education, including (a) training o f college tutors inDTEP module
writing,(b) the development o f the DTEP 1st year modules, (c) implementation o f the 1st year
DTEP, d) training o f DTEP administrators, and (e) a study on the physical infrastructure needs
for the DTEP. Inaddition, Phase Iprocured office equipment for the DTEP and reference
materials for the tutors and student teachers.

With assistance from the ESDP I1Phase 11,these activities will be repeated. Inaddition, Phase I1
will support the continuous review o f the curriculum and modules with a view toward further
increasingthe efficiency and effectiveness o fthe program.

ImplementingUnit: Lesotho College o fEducation

Subcomponent 7:Basic Education Curriculum and Examination. This component will finance
the continued development o f an Integrated Curriculum and ExaminationFramework,
localization o f the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate Exam and implementation o f the
National StandardizedTests inbasic literacy and numeracy.

The National Curriculum Development Center (NCDC) i s responsible for settingthe curriclum
for primary and secondary education. The ExaminationCouncil o f Lesotho (ECOL) i s
responsible for examinations. Inthe past, there has been very little correspondence between the
two agencies and consequently the emphasis and directions o f curriculum sometimes do not
agree with the examinations. The ESDP I1Phase Ihad attempted to support the development o f
an IntegratedCurriculum and Assessment Framework for primary and secondary education.
Such a framework will prescribe the compulsory subjects for each phase of education and assign
them an appropriate "weight" inthe curriculum. It will also indicate any supplementary subjects
needed and provide recommendations for the overall structure and balance of the curriculum.
Further,the Framework will prescribe the purpose andtimingo f formal national assessmentsand


                                                 - 56 -

examinations. Subsequently, NCDC and ECOL will be responsible for the detailed development
o f the proposed curricula and schemes o f external assessment, respectively. Regional HIVIAIDS
education materials will be adapted and integrated into the curriculum.

Duringthe first phase o fESDP 11,ECOL andNCDC experiencedtremendous difficulty inthe
development o f the framework for various reasons including (a) lack o f consistent technical
support; (b) lack o f a formal mechanism for NCDC to work effectively with ECOL, and (c) weak
capacity inNCDC. As a result, the Framework i s still beingdeveloped. The Ministryhas
assured IDA that emphasis will be placed on strengthening the NCDC leadership and better
communication between ECOL and NCDC. At the same time, the MOE requested IDA support
inprovidingECOL/NCDC staff with further exposure to other countries' experiencein
developing such a framework and inproviding technical assistance when needed. The ESDP I1
Phase I1will therefore support (a) study tours (b) technical assistance on curriculum and
assessment framework, and (c) regional and national consultation on the framework.

The delay inthe development ofthe framework has also affectedthe implementation ofthe
National Assessment interms o f determining the grades, subjects, and frequency o f assessment.
Notwithstanding this, the first National Assessment was administered inearly 2003 to a select
sample o f Standard 3 and 6 students inEnglish, Math, and Sesotho. Results from the first
assessmenthadbeen analyzed and became one o f the critical baseline data for monitoring the
impact o f ESDP I1Phase 11, taking into account shortcomings inthe design o f the first tests. The
ESDP I1Phase I1will support the subsequent review and implementation o f National Assessment
incore subjects for primary andlower secondary education.

Finally, it i s also expected that ECOL will take over the responsibility o f administering the
Cambridge Overseas School Certificate tests which were traditionallymanaged by Oxford
University. The transfer will require that ECOLdevelop the relevant capacity intest writing, test
administration, marking,and data storage. The ESDP I1Phase I1will support these activities.

Implementing Units: NCDC and ECOL

Project Component 2 US$5.95 million
                      -
Secondary Education

Subcomponent 1: Secondary school construction. This subcomponent will finance the
construction o f at least 3 secondary schools with related facilities, furniture, and equipment. It i s
proposed that the 3 secondary schools will be built inThaba-Tseka, Mokhotlong, and Berea,
where currently there are no government secondary schools. Iffunds allow, a fourth secondary
school may be built inQuthingdistrict. The selection o f sites within these districts will be
guidedby the GIS once the GIS becomes available.

ImplementingUnit: Secondary Inspectorate and Education FacilityUnit

Subcomponent 2: Targetted EquityBased Program. This component will annually finance up to
15000bursaries to orphans and other disadvantagedchildreninupperprimary and secondary
grades. The program will benefit approximately 5% o f students enrolled inupperprimary and


                                                - 57 -

secondary grades and about 40% o f the existing orphans basedon a recent Core Welfare
Indicator Questionnaire Survey. The numbero f bursaries to be awarded to lower secondary
students will include up to 5,000 annually.

The MOET, inconsultation with stakeholders will develop an annualbudgetand quota for
bursaries ineach district. Basedonthe selection criteria1 specified inthe application form,
recommendations for awards will be made by schools, verified by the communities, and
processed by the district-based bursary committee. The Bursary Officer inthe Central Office
will consolidate the awards, liase with the Project Coordinator on budgeting and disbursement,
and monitor and evaluate the impact o f the scheme, and propose to the Senior Management
necessary revisions to the selection criteria and procedures. Schools receiving bursaries are
required to open a Bank account.

As described inthe PrimaryEducationComponent, activities includingthe procurement ofa
beneficiary database to improve the efficiency o f the bursary administration and auditing and
evaluation o f the scheme will be carried out jointly with the primary bursary subcomponent.

ImplementingUnit: Bursary Officer inconsultation with MOET Bursary Committee and
Secondary Inspectorate

Subcomponent 3: Secondary teaching and learning materials. This component will finance the
development o f a secondary core textbook rental scheme and revolving fund and the purchase o f
the initial start-up stock for the rental scheme.

Basotho secondary students continue to purchase their own textbooks; a complete set can cost as
much as US$lOO. The highcost o f textbooks i s one o f the contributing factors to the highcosts
o f secondary education to parents, which inturn i s the major inhibiting factor for secondary
enrolment growth (GER 29%). While there is a discussion on the feasibility o f extending Free
Primary Education to cover the first three years o f secondary education, it is unlikely that the
current fiscal situation o f the GOL will allow this extension o f free education inthe short term.
The MOET has therefore requested IDA support to establish a core secondary textbook rental
 scheme and revolving fund based on the same principles as the successful primary textbook
rental scheme and revolving fund. The proposed ESDP I1Phase I1will support the design o f an
appropriate rental scheme and revolving fund and essential improvements inthe internal
management systems and accounting practices o f SSU to enable it to manage the new scheme
 successfully. For example, the retail book trade within Lesotho i s dependent upon sales to the
 secondary sector for its survival and the introductiono f procurement and supply via the SSU
 could cause serious damage to a long establishedand successful sector o f the economy. Thus, a
 secondary revolving fund will probably operate on the basis o f decentralised school-based
revolving funds, rather than via a single centralised revolving fund. The successful launch o f a
 secondary revolving fund will also require the design of new systems o f textbook evaluation and
 approval inclose collaboration with NCDC and a review o f current ordering, procurement and
 distributionpractices to ensure that students receive the best quality textbooks and the best
 possible value for money. As soon as the new systems are inplace and a new approved secondary
 textbook list i s made available, the initial textbook stock will be procured.


                                                   - 58 -

ImplementingUnit: School Supply Unit inclose liaisonwith the Secondary Inspectorate and
NCDC

Sub-component 4: Secondarv school support through decentralized inspection and advisory
services. This component will finance (a) a refresher course for secondary teachers o f Math,
English, Science, and Sesotho once every two years and (b) annual training of secondary
inspectors and advisors.

Under ESDP I1Phase I,little has been done to provide on-going pedagogical support for
secondary teachers. Duringthis phase, the ESDP I1will support a 5-day refresher course for all
secondary teachers o f Math, English, Sciences, and Sesotho. Private and public tertiary
institutions will be invited to develop various modules and train the teachers so that the burden o f
training does not fall entirely on the inspectors.

There are a total o f about 250 secondary schools inLesotho and about 1000 teachers teaching
Math, English, Sciences, and Sesotho inthese secondary schools. The refresher courses will be
non-residential and will be conducted inthe 80 dissemination centers existingthroughout the
country.

Also under Phase I,a review o f secondary inspection and advisory services was undertakenby
the consulting firm Multi-Serve. Useful recommendations were made to the Ministry and the
Ministryisreadyto take up some ofthe recommendations including (a) the adoption ofnew
inspection manuals, (b) decentralizing inspectors to the districts, and (c)revise the secondary
 advisory services. The ESDP I1Phase I1will support the implementation o f these
recommendations, includingthe training o f 20 secondary inspectors and 17 secondary advisors in
 the use o f new inspection manuals and other monitoring tools. The training will be designed
basedon findings and recommendations from the Multi-Serve review.

 The training inthis component will require sophisticated coordination incontent and sequencing
 and to make sure that all activities lead to improvement inclassroom teaching and learning. A
 Task Force comprised o f secondary inspectors, senior district education officers, secondary
 advisors, and teachers will be established. The Task Force will be provided with technical
 assistance ifneeded and will prepare a detailed implementation plan for all the activities
 concerning secondary teachers, inspectors, and advisors duringthe 4-year period.

 Implementing Unit: Central Inspectorate

 Subcomponent 5: Secondarv school management. This component will finance the continuous
 training o f secondary school management (principals and their deputies, and Secondary School
 Boards).

 Secondary schools inLesotho are governed by Secondary School Boards, comprised o f
 proprietors' representatives, parents' and community representatives, teachers' representatives,
 principals, and local chiefs. Under the ESDP I1Phase I,all existingsecondary boards were


                                                  - 59 -

trained ingeneral and financial management. However, the membership o f the boards expires
every 3 years so there i s a continuous needto train the newly elected boards. Since it i s expected
that many boards memebers will be re-elected, the magnitude o f training will be smaller.
Following a needs assessment, the project will finance the training o f approximately 30
secondary boards annually in general and financial management o f schools.

Increasedemphasis on the school-level management also place muchmore responsibility on
secondary principals and their deputies, who are now also expected to assist inthe
implementation o f the bursary scheme, secondary book revolving hnd, HIV/AIDS counseling,
beyond their normal workload. Unfortunately most o f the principals and deputies are not well
trained for theirjobs. Following a needs assessment, Phase I1o f the ESDP I1will finance the
design and training o f secondary school principals and their deputies. The focus o f the training
for the principles will be coordinated with the secondary inspectorate and teacher training inthe
last subcomponent and will be oriented towardproviding pedagogical support to teaching and
learning insecondary classrooms. The secondary inspectorates will finalize the training priorities
inconsultation with the MOET Senior Management andIDA. Training will be outsourced.

ImplementingUnit: Central Inspectorate

Project Component 3 US$ 2.16 million
                      -
PromotingLifelongLearningthroughCapacityBuildinginECCD, TVET, Higher and
Non-formalEducation

Subcomponent 1: ECCD Expansionthrough Home-based Care Approach. This component will
finance the establishment o f ECCD home-based centers inall districts (at least 2 bases per
district). Further, it will support the ECCD unit inits role as a policy maker and regulator for all
ECCD providers.

The ECCD Unitwithin the Ministryo f Education and Training is formally chargedwith
monitoring and regulating the exisiting centers throughout the country. However it i s not
responsible for direct provision o f ECCD centers. ECCD centers are runby private firms or
individuals and their fees tend to be inhibitive for the poor households. Inorder to increase the
ECCD coverage, with support from ESDP I1Phase I,        the ECCDunit started to pilotwith a
home-basedcare approach providing low-cost home-based care to about 400 children under the
ages o f 6 in8 villages located in4 districts. Most o f the children enrolled inthe home-basedcare
tend to be from poor households inthe village. The home-based approach mostly relies on
volunteer parents as actual teacherdcaregivers, though the MOET provides training and
curriculum materials for those bases. Existingcommunity infrasture such as church halls or
others have beenused as classrooms for the bases. Further,these bases have indeed become
community centers where idle mothers congregate together with village chiefs to discuss
childrearing and community development. Some bases have also developed income-generating
activities such as making and selling dresses and other hand crafts. Very positive feedback was
received on these bases duringIDA'Ssupervision visits.

A formal evaluation o fthe ECCDhome-basedscheme is beingconductedbythe MOET. At the
same time, the ESDP T I Phase I1will finance at least 12 additional bases, 2 for each o f the


                                                - 60 -

remaining 6 districts. Furtherexpansion will also be supported ifthe results from the evaluation
i s positive. Upon approval o f site selection by the MOET Senior Management, the ECCD Unit
will conduct pitsos (community meeting) to organize the selected villages and establish home
care bases. Further, Phase 11will continue to finance the development and procurement o f
manuals and other basic materials to the bases. Annual training will be conducted for the existing
185 National Teacher Trainers, District Teacher Trainers, and Area Resource Teachers at the
existing 80 dissemination centers. Further, training will be providedon site to the volunteer
home-base caretakers and parents.

Finally, incollaboration with the Lesotho College of Education, the ESDP I1will support the
development o f a ECCD diploma teacher in-service program as part o f Distance Teacher
Education Program.

ImplementingUnit: ECCD Unit o f MOET

Subcomponent 2: Technical and vocational education. This component will continue activities
begun inPhase Ifor policy development and capacity buildinginTVET to reorient the sub-sector
from a supply-to a demand-driven system, and begin implementation o f the TVET policy. In
particular, the project will support (a) completiono f the TVET policy and legislation; (b)
completiono f the financing strategy and financial management system; (c) capacity buildingfor
the TVET Board; (d) capacity buildingfor Technical Vocational Education and Training
Department staff; (e) construction o f a hostel for the Thaba Tseka Training Institute; and (f)
establishment o f an Innovations Fundfor competitively financing new skills training linkedto
market demand.

The project i s intended to help Government get the policy environment right to encourage
development o f an efficient, responsive, market-led training system, and support sustainable
financing o f the system. The policy for provisionand financing o f TVET will be reflected inthe
preparation o f authorizing legislation. Capacity buildingfor strengtheningthe TVET Board and
Staffi s included. The project will respondto trainee demand inremote areas for expanded
access to skills training by completing construction o f a 100-bed hostel for the Thaba Tseka
Training Institute.

The project will support the shift from supply-to demand-driven financing o f TVET through the
development and implementation o f an InnovationFundfor Skills Training. The Fundwill seek
and finance proposals on a competitive basis from government and non-government training
institutions to deliver short-term, modular trainingprograms directed to skills inhighdemand in
local labor markets. The Fundwill introduce accountability and incentives for linking supply
with demand byholding providers accountable for employment outcomes o fpast graduates in
future competition for Fundfinancing. The project will develop the institutional platform for the
Fund,which canbe used to receive Government and other donor financing, and finance the
initial competitive procurement o f new skills training linked to market demand.

ImplementingUnit: Technical and Vocational Education Department




                                                 -61  -

Subcomponent 3: Higher Education (HE). For the Government o f Lesotho (GOL) to achieve its
stated objectives inprimary and secondary education, it will be necessary to allocate time and
funds to HigherEducationas well. Itis therefore fittingthat the Government and Higher
Education Institutions are puttinginplace the legal and policy framework and plans for the tasks
o f transformation. The leadership inthese institutions will also benefit from change in
management skills. It thus appears necessary to expose upper echelons o f management to
appropriately customized training programmes. At the institutional levelthese plans seek to
expand enrollment, reduce unit costs, diversify revenue sources and maintain quality and
relevance while streamlining and rationalizing course offerings interms o f national comparative
advantage and responsiveness to developmental goals.

Inparticular, the project will support the following areas:

(a) Dissemination o f the HigherEducation Act and strengtheningthe National Council o f Higher
Education secretariate;

(b) Development o fthe Higher Education Policywithin the legislative framework, undertake
study tours to inform the policy formulationprocess and hold consultative forums, and
productiono f the policy document for dissemination to all stakeholders;

(c) An early indicator workshop to to take stock o f the data gathering process that i s inplace and
i s envisioned; identifyurgent information needs for planningpurposes; and to identify realistic
targets that could be achieved over the coming four years. This would include enrollments for
which there are already projections, targets relating to management and governance, and, most
important, financial targets that will permit the university and other institutions to know whether
the savings that are predicted are beingachieved and the cost recovery measures are working as
anticipated.

(d) Collectiono fbase line data agreed from the workshop, including the commissioning of
studies o f university financing and the costs and benefits associated with students who go to
South Africa to study and graduates who go for work,

(e) A modest amount o f funding will be kept inreserve to permit the provisiono f incentives for
priority equipment and training needs that would reinforce the transformation process at the
tertiary level. These would be made available on the basis o f the measured achievement o f cost
saving targets established at the workshop.

ImplementingUnit: HigherEducation Council

Subcomponent 4: Non-formal Education. Inthe sub-sector o f Non-Formal-Education, Phase I1
will continue to support the two Learner Post pilots intwo districts. Inparticular, the project will
focus on development o f relevant modules inincome generation based on needs assessment and
pre-testing o f materials.

ImplementingUnit: Non-formal Education Unit



                                                - 62 -

Project Component4 US$3.60 million
                      -
MOET InstitutionalStrengthening

Subcomponent 1: District Education Management Strengthened . Underthe ESDP Ifinanced
also by IDA, 10 District Resource Centers were built with the objective o f facilitating the
Ministry'sdecentralization agenda. All 10DRCs have exactly the same design and are equipped
withbasic office equipment and furniture, However, implementation o f decentralizationhas not
been smooth at all. While there i s concensus that delivery o f education services can be enhanced
when there i s staff inthe districts, there i s no concensus on how much authority can be delegated
to the district staff. Further, the recruitment o f district staff i s complicated by the delay inpublic
sector reform which resulted inunclear guidance on recruitment. To date, the role o f district
educationmanagement vis a vis the central office still needs to be clarified. Many vacancies in
the district offices still need to be filled either by new recruitment or by re-deploying the centrally
based staff. At the same time, reforms introducedby ESDP I1such as distance teacher education,
school inspection and advisory services, scholarships, and EMIS call for staff to be located inthe
districts and the DRCs be utilized to improve service delivery. Further, the office equipment and
furniture have fallen out o f use. Some o f the facilities inthe DRCs such as computers have
already become out o f date. Essentialequipment such as library books and furnitures, vehicles
were not provided for. To make the DRCs functional, it is necessary that ESDP I1Phase I1
finances the procurement o f essential equipment and furniture. A needs assessmentwill be
conducted to determine the exact needs.

Apart from lacking proper facilities, the district education staff will need further training. The
project will finance district-based training o f the district education staff ineducation management
based on MOET policy guidelines on decentralization. Further, the project will finance study
tours for the district staff to learn about other district-based system.

An end-of-project evaluationwill be conducted onthe impactof improveddistrict education
management and DRCs on the delivery o f education services.

Implementing Unit: Education Planning Unit, Education Facility Unit

Subcomponent 2: Strengthening MOET capacity inpolicy development, planning, monitoring
and evaluation. This component will finance activities related to (a) review o f Education Sector
Strategic Plan and its annual operational plan linked with the MTEF, (b) activities related to the
implementation o f MTEF and updating o f PERs, (c) activities promoting donor coordination, and
(d) strengtheningthe EPU's capacity in policy development, planning, and monitoring and
evaluation through reorganizing EPU organizational structure, staff recruitment and
development, and EMIS development.

The project will support the review of the Education Sector Strategic Plan and its annual
operational plans. The MOET has developed a draft Education Sector Strategic Plan for the next
 10years. The draft as it stands has providedsome basic input to the development o f the first
MOET MTEF and the design o f the proposedproject Phase 11. The Ministry is, however, o f the
view that the Planneeds further work to strengthen its status as the education sector strategy o f


                                                    - 63 -

the country. Inaddition to editing, the document would benefit from fine tuning inareas such as:
priority setting, costing estimation, and development o f projections before it can be shared with
all development partners and be used as a common framework for financing.

The GOL is interested inaligning its priorities with sub-sectoral allocations. GOL will increase
the share o f the MOET recurrent budget to primary and secondary education from the current
63% in2003/04 budget to 70% by 2007 (including the share o fbudget devoted to NMPS). Since
the overall resources envelope for education is likely to remain constrained, gains must be found
by improvingthe efficiency o fthe sector. The project will therefore support the updating o fthe
education PER every two years, activities related to MTEFpreparation and submission,and
improvement o f the Ministry's financial management and procurement system;

Donor Coordination. MOET will establish a better mechanism for donor coordination. The
ministryis currently inthe process ofinvestigatingvarious options for enhanced donor
coordination including, amongst others, Sector Wide Approach (SWAP).

StrengtheningEducation Planning Unit. The functioningo f the Education Planning Unitwas
weakened by (a) vacancies not filled (planners are lured away by other higher-paying jobs after
having obtained training at the expense o f the MOET) and (b) lack o f technical capacity in
reseach, policy development, planning, and monitoringand evaluation. The new Director o f
Planning is committedto upgrade the Planning Unitthrough (a) creating new positions and
filling vacant ones, (b) more relevant short-term training o f staff on specific tasks, including
training o f education staff inplanningto reduce the risk o f losing the trained staff and (c)
re-organizing the structure o f the Planning Unit along critical functions such as policy
development, planning, monitoring and evaluation includingEMIS. It i s the intentiono f boththe
MinistryandIDAthat as soon as the PlanningUnitis strengthened inthese areas(as evidenced
by outputs producedsuch as timely and quality EMISandpolicy briefs), arrangements canbe
made so that the Project Coordination and Support Unit is brought back to the Planning Unit.
Finally, Phase I1will continue to support the Education Management Information System (EMIS)
so data are produced ina more accurate, integrated, and timely manner.

Subcomponent 3: MOET Staff development and training (including district based staff). Phase I1
will continue to support the trainingo f MOET staff(inaddition to EPU as decribed above) in
policy development, planning, monitoring and evaluation. Inparticular, a training plan for the 4
years o f ESDP I1Phase 11will be drawn and approvedby the MOET senior managment and IDA.
Priorities o f trainingwill be givento district-based education staff, professional and technical
staff inthe MOET Headquarters.

Subcomponent 4: HIV/AIDS. The spread o f HIV/AIDS is increasingly recognised as an urgent
anti-development issue and not one which concerns the health sector alone. MOET has
established a HIV/AIDS unit and the education MTEFalso requires that 1-2% o f total education
budget will be allocated to addressing issues related to HIV/AIDS. The ESDP I1APL2 will
support the development o f an HIV/AIDSpolicy on education. NCDC will continue to develop
HIV/AIDS educationmaterial for incorporation into primary and secondary school curricula.
HIV/AIDS awareness will also be infused inall aspects o f school life. The project will finance



                                                 - 64 -

an impact assessmento f HIV/AIDSon the sector; explore mitigation and prevention strategies as
well as training replacement teachers, introducing counseling as a requirement o f teacher
education. MOET will hrther explore the possibility o f having a workplace programme on
HIV/AIDS.

Project Component 5 US$1.31 million
                    -
ProjectImplementation. The proposedproject will continue to support the functioning of
Project Support and Coordination Unit, including (a) salaries and benefits for staff inproject
accounts and the Education Facility Unit; (b) ongoing technical assistance inproject coordination
and procurement; (c) selected training inproject management, financial management, and
procurement; and (d) procurement o f integrated financial and procurement management system




                                              - 65 -

                              Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
         LESOTHO: Second Education Sector Development Project (Phase II)

                                                                              Total
                                                                             US $million
1. Primary Education                                         2.57    10.90     13.47
      1.1 Classroondfumiturelequipment
      1.2 Targetted equity-basedprogram
      1.3 TeachingAeamingmaterials
      1.4 Primaryinspectionladvisory
      1.5 Primary school management
      1.6 Distance Teacher Education Project
      1.7 Curriculumand assessment
2. Secondary Education                                          8     3.97      5.65
      2.1 Classroondfumiture/equipment
      2.2 Targetted equity basedprogram
      2.3 Teaching and leamingmaterials
      2.4 SecondaryInspection/advisory services
      2.5 Secondary school management
3. Lifelong learning in ECCD/TVET/Higher/NFE                 0.3 1    1.74      2.05
      3.1 ECCD
      3.2 TVET
      3.3 Higher education
      3.4 Non-formal education
4. MOEInstitutional Strengthening                            1.08     2.34       3.42
      4.1 District educationmanagement
      4.2 MOE policy/planning/M&E
      4.3 Staff developmentandtraining
      4.4 HIVIAIDSineducation
5. Project implementation                                    0.25      1.05      1.30
Total BaselineCost                                           5.89     20.00     25.89
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.00      0.00      0.00
 Price Contingencies                                         0.3 1     1.oo      1.31
                             Total Proiect Cost;             6.20     21.00     27.20
                        Total FinancingRequired              6.20     21.oo     27.20




                                                - 66 -

                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                     lion
Works                                                                                              0.86                    7.70                     8.56
Goods                                                                                              0.35                    3.20                     3.55
Consultants                                                                                        0.15                     1S O                    1.65
Training, Workshops, and Study Tours                                                               0.00                    4.00                     4.00
Bursaries                                                                                          1.40                     1.40                    2.80
Operating Expenses                                                                                 0.16                     1.40                    1.56
Unallocated                                                                                        0.16                     1.80                    1.96
Local Staff SalarylBenefits                                                                        3.12                    0.00                     3.12
                                                        Total Project Costs                        6.20                   21.00                   27.20
                                               Total Financing Required                            6.20                   21.oo                   27.20

  ldentifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 27.2 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 77.21%
 o f total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                  - 67 -

                         Annex 4 Economic and Financial Analysis
          LESOTHO: Second Education Sector Development Project (Phase II)

A.      Economicand Social Benefitsof EducationinLesotho

Economic Benefts

1.      Employment status of Lesotho's labor force. The most recent year for which a Labor
Force Surveyi s available is 1999. The Survey i s limitedto the territory o f Lesotho, but
households are asked to identify household members who are citizens o f Lesotho but who are
working inthe Republic o f South Africa. (Persons livinginSouth Africa, but not working,
evidently are not included inthe data.) On that basis, in 1999 Lesotho's labor force was
estimated to have beenabout 849,000, as shown inTable 4.1 below. The distributiono f these
849,000 persons was roughly as follows: employed within Lesotho, 514,000; employed inRSA,
103,000; unemployed (within Lesotho), 232,000.

2.      The unemployment rate i s either 31%, ifthe measure is limited to the territory o f Lesotho,
or 27%, ifLesotho citizens working inRSA are includedwithin the measure o f the labor force.
The highlevelo funemployment is obviously amajor economic and social problemfor the
country.

   Table 4.1: Labor Force, Employment,and Unemploymentin 1999 (thousands, unless
                                       stated otherwise)

                             Within Lesotho            InRSA        TotalIncludingThoseInRSA
Economically active               745.8                 103.5                    849.3
population
Employed population               514.1                 103.5                    617.6
Employment rate (%)              68.9%                  n.a.                     72.7%
Unemployment rate (%)            31.1%                  n.a.                     27.3%


3.      As illustratedbyTable 4.2, only 23% o f employed persons are wage and salary
employees, while 69% were employed insubsistence farming, and 8% were self-employed (in
occupations other than subsistence farming).



Paid Employees                                                          23.2
Government                                                               8.1
Parastatal                                                                1.8
Private                                                                  13.3
Private, self-employed                                                   -
                                                                         8.0
Subsistence farming                                                     68.8
Total                                                                   1oo.o


                                              - 68 -

                    Table 4.3: Education and Employment Status (in thousands)

Educational              Labor Force         Employed        Unemployed         Unemployment
Attainment                                                                           Rate
                                                                                                   ~




  one                        133.6            103.0               30.6              22.9%
Std 1-7                     542.6             393.8               148.8             27.4%
Form 1-5                     148.3            99.6                48.7              32.8%
A Level                      16.7              14.2               2.5                15.0%
B.A.or higher                 8.1              6.9                 1.2               14.8%
Total                       849.2             617.5              231.7              27.3%


3.     Relationship between educationand employment. As shown inTable 4.3 above,
Basotho with only some primary education, or with some secondary education, have highrates o f
unemployment, 27% or more. However, Basotho who have completed A level have a much
lower rate o f unemployment, 15%.

4.     Poverty analysis suggests that households with individuals inpaid employment have the
greatest chance o f escaping poverty. Education has a powerful effect on an individual's
likelihood o f obtaining paid employment. Only 40% o f those without any education or with
Standards 1-7 education are inpaid employment. 50% o f those with Forms 1-7 education are in
paid employment, while more than 80% o f those with A level or higher are inpaid employment.

                  Median income b y education




                    No of years of education


5.     Relationship between education and earnings (wage and salary earners only).
Education is an important factor indetermining the earnings o f wage and salary employees.
However, as shown inthe Chart above, the relationship i s not linear. Rather, earnings increase
marginallywith schooling untilabout 11years, after which they rise steeply, and then level off
again.


                                              - 69 -

Social benefits of education

6.         Inadditionto enablingpeopleto earnlarger incomes, educationenables peopleto
understand health issues better, and therefore to lead healthier lifestyles. The education of
females benefits not only themselves, but also their children, as manifestedby lower infant
mortality and better nutritionalstatus.

7.         Inthe case ofLesotho, the following observations from existing materials are relevant:

           The Report on the Population Census o f 1996 found that the average number o f children
           ever born was 2.42 for the adult female populationas a whole. The average numbero f
           children ever born was 3.36 for adult females with no education, 2.65 for adult females
           with only primary education, and inthe range 1.72-2.65 for adult females with varying
           levels o f post-primary education.   "
    0      The Core Welfare Indicators survey o f 2002 found that education was positively
           correlated with awareness o f how HIV/AIDS i s transmitted (Table 11.5) ,as follows:
           some primary, 29%; primary completed, 59%; some secondary, 69%; secondary
           completed, 71%.

"The census reportdid not reportonTotal Fertility Rate correlatedwith education. The TFR is the sum o f
age-specific fertility rates (ASFRs), ifawoman were to surviveup to age 45. The ChildrenEver Born(CEB)
statistic is always lowerthan the TFR, because some of the respondent womenwill have additionalchildreninthe
future.

 8.        It would be worthwhile for the Core Welfare Indicators survey to be analyzed further, to
 assess relationships between mothers' education and children's nutritional status, and between
 mothers' education and infant mortality.

 B.        Fiscal Implicationsof ExpandingEnrollmentand ImprovingQuality of Education

 Government expenditure in the macroeconomic context

 9.        As canbe seen from Table 4.4, Government expenditure absorbs a very large share o f
 Lesotho's GDP -an estimated 48% in2002/03, and a projected 45% in2003/04.. By contrast,
 among Sub-Saharan African countries generally, Government expenditure i s only 27% o f GDP.

 10.       Lesotho's highlevel o f Government expenditure is enabled by the highratio o f
 Government revenue to GDP - 37% inLesotho, versus only 21% inthe average SSA country.
 The highratio o f international trade to GDP, and the income from the Lesotho Highlands Water
 Project, have contributed to Lesotho's highlevels o f Government revenue.

11.        Despite the favorable revenue situation, expenditure is so elevated that Lesotho is
incurring budget deficits amounting to 5% o f GDP. Over the medium term, it will be important
for levels o f expenditure and deficit financing to be curtailed, to enable a larger share o f national
income to be devoted to private sector investment and growth.



                                                       - 70 -

                  Table 4.4: Government Budget Operations (millions of Maloti)

                                             Projected 2002/03      ProposedBudget 2003104
   Revenue and grants                               3316                      3496
    Revenue                                         3056                      3203
    Grants                                          260                       293

   Expenditure and net lending                      3704                      3946
    Recurrent expenditure                           2995                      3117
  rinterest payments                                221                       209
    Non-interest recurrent expenditures             2774                      2908
    Cauital exuenditures and net lending            709                       829

  Overall deficit                                   -
                                                    388                       450

                                               (as YOof GDP)
  Revenue and grants                               43.0%                     40.1%
    Revenue                                        39.6%                     36.8%
  I r a n t s                            I          3.4%         I            3.4%         I

                                                   48.0%                     45.3%
    Recurrent expenditure                          38.8%                     35.8%
    Interest payments                               2.9%                      2.4%
    Non-interest recurrent expenditures            36.0%                     33.4%
    Capital expenditures and net lending            9.2%                      9.5%

  Overall deficit                                   5.0%                      5.2%

  /Memorandumitem: GDP                   I          7710         I            8711         I

Education Sector's Share

12.    InLesotho, the education sector, consisting ofthe MinistryofEducation andTraining
plusbursaries administered through the National Manpower Development Secretariat absorbs
32% o f Government recurrent expenditure, excluding interest payments, and 28% o f total
Government expenditure. Government expenditure on education amounts to 12%o f GDP,
substantially greater than inmost African countries.




                                             - 71 -

      Table 4.5: EducationSector Expenditureas a Share of the Government Budget, and as a
                                           Percentageof GDP

                                                               ProposedBudget 2003/04
    Government Expenditure on Education                                 1047
     Ministry of Education - recurrent                                   748
     MinistryofEducation capital
                             -                                            101
     NMDS (bursaries)                                                     198
    Total Govt. Expenditure, excl. interest                             g3J
     Total recurrent, excl. interest                                    2908
     Total caoital                                                       829
    Education Sector's Share:
     Of recurrent expenditure, excl. interest                           32.5%
     Of total expenditure, excl. interest                               28.0%




Issues in the composition of Government expenditure on education, andfiscal planningfor
the sector

13.     As canbe seen inTable 4.6, the distribution o f education sector recurrent expenditure is
as follows: basic education, 40%; secondary education, 17%; TVET, 6%; higher education,
29%; teacher training, 3%; administration and supporting services, 5%. Inrelation to other
African countries (and despite the FPE policy which has shifted some costs formerly bome by
parents, onto the Government budget), Lesotho still spends a relatively small share on basic
education, and an unusually highshare on tertiary education. The difficulty o f achieving
"economies o f scale" at the National University o f a country with a small populationhelps
explain the latter observation.

14.     Under Phase I,the Ministry o f Education and Training preparedthe first-ever sectoral
MediumTerm Expenditure Framework, covering 2003/04 through 2005106, with the assistance
o f a consulting firm. MTEFwill become a routine activity o f the Ministry. Thus, the next
MTEFwill be for 2004/05 through 2006/07. Inthat context, the following factual andpolicy
issues are relevant:

   0    Ithas become apparent that the demographic projections uponwhich the Ministryrelied
        duringthe Phase Iperiodreflectedtwo flaws: (a) theywere for the total citizenry o f
        Lesotho, including those living in South Africa, whereas for education sector planning
       purposes (certainly for primary and secondary) the relevant populationare those living
       within Lesotho; (b) the HIV/AIDSepidemic was not reflected. New projections
       responding to these points have beenpreparedby demographers outside Lesotho, and the
       Bureau of Statistics intendsto prepare its own new projections. Future education sector
       planningshould reflect updated demographic projections.




                                                - 72 -

                 Table 4.6: Ministry of EducationProposed Expenditures,2003/04

                  MTEFProposal MTEFProposal ProposedBudget          Proposed         Proposed
                    (Mmillion)    (Percent Dist.)    (Mmillion)     Recurrent        Recurrent
                    MoEonly         MoEonly          MoEonly    Budget (YODist.) Budget (% Dist.)
                                                                    MoE only        incl. NMDS
Central          -15            2.1%              12            1.6%            1.3%
Administration
Basic Education  361            50.1%             &l            50.9%           40.3%
   Primary                                        220           29.4%           23.3%
   teachers'

   Free Primary  I                               1158           121.1%          116.7%




Suuuort and
Suuvlv
   Lesotho                                        17            2.3%             1.8%
   College of
   Education
   Other                                          7             0.9%             0.7%
Higher Education 103             14.3%            119           15.9%            28.9%
   Natl. Univ. of                                 117           15.6%




Recurrent-                                        198
NMDS
Recurrent-Educ.                                   946                            100.0%
sector
Capital                                           101
Budpet-MOE




                                               - 73 -

Note: For 2003,04, it is assumed that NMDS bursaries are distributed in the sameproportions as
observed in 2000/01, namely: university students, 78%; TVETstudents, 17%; secondary school
students, 5%


0      Itwould be desirable to simulate the evolution o fprimaryenrollments necessary to
       achieve the Millenium Development Goal o f universal primary completion, no later than
       by2015.
0      The Ministryintends to reduce class size at the primary level, and to increase the
       proportiono f trained teachers at the primary level. These factors will increase the cost to
       the Government o f primary education.
0      The share o f the budget going to the non-instructional purpose o f feeding i s substantial,
       and deserves scrutiny.
0      One likelyconsequence o fprimary enrollment expansion i s increasedenrollment at the
       secondary level. On the other hand, secondary education displays inefficiency-teachers
       teach too few class periods, and pupilkeacher ratios are low.
0      The experience o f other countries where Government budgetallocations to universities
       have been cut, without any other reforms, i s that the institutions slide into illiquidity, and
       quality suffers. There is a need for strategic planning (including financial planning) at
       NULthat is consistent with the Government's intentions concerning long-term support
       for higher education.
0      Bursaries are means-tested for secondary students, but not for tertiary students. This
       seems inconsistent. One way to free up a greater share o f the budget for primary and
       secondary education would be to introduce means-testing for tertiary student bursaries.

These issues will be the subject o f dialogue between the Ministryand the Bank supervision team
duringthe supervision stage o fPhase 11.




                                                - 74 -

                                Annex 5: Financial Summary
             LESOTHO: Second Education Sector Development Project (Phase It)
                                      Years Ending



                        I Year1  I Year2    I Year3   I Year4  I Year5    1 Year6  I Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
  Investment Costs           5.2        6.3        6.3      5.2       4.2       0.0      0.0
 Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs          5.2        6.3        6.3      5.2       4.2       0.0      0.0
Total Financing              5.2        6.3        6.3      5.2       4.2       0.0      0.0
Financing
  I6RDllDA                   4.0        5.0        5.0      4.0       3.O      0.0       0.0
  Government                  1.2       1.3        1.3      1.2       1.2      0.0       0.0
      Central                0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
      Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
   Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries      0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Other                        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing      5.2        6.3        6.3      5.2       4.2      0.0       0.0




   Investment Costs
   Recurrent Costs
Total Project Costs
Total Financing
Financing
   IBRDllDA                  0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
   Government                0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
      Central                0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
      Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
   Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
U er FeeslBeneficiaries      0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Other                        0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing      0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0



Main assumptions:




                                           - 75 -

                           Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
          LESOTHO: Second Education Sector Development Project (Phase II)

Procurement

Procurement o f goods, works and consulting services for all IDA financed components o f the
project will be carried out inaccordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IRBD
Loans and IDA credits (January 1995, revisedinJanuary and August 1996, September 1997, and
January 1999). Consulting services by firms or individuals financed by IDA will be awarded in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (January 1997, revised inSeptember 1997, January 1999 and May 2002). The
management o f the procurement o f goods and equipment ,civil works and consulting services
under the project will be the responsibility o f the Project Coordinating and Supporting Unit
(PCSU) under the Ministry o f Education and Training (MOET). The PCSU has gained
considerable experience duringprevious Bank-financed ESDP Iand I1Phase Iand can count on
qualifiedprocurement specialists and civil engineers, supported by experienced international
consultants. The Bank has requested the Borrower to review and renew most o f the contracts for
the present staff and to consider the recruitment o f an overall coordinator

Two General Procurement Notices (GPN), one for consulting services and one for civil works
and goods, will be published inthe UnitedNations Development Business, immediately after
Bank approval. The project, however, i s already well knownto international contractors and
suppliers since it follows without interruption presently ongoing ESDP I1Phase I.   Tendering
therefore can be continued without any interruption. The GPNs will be updated at least once a
year and submitted to IDA for review. GPNs will describe all outstanding ICB for goods and
works contracts, as well as consulting assignments. The procurement planpresently inuse will
beupdated. The planwill include relevant information on goods, works and consulting services
as well as the timingo f each milestone inthe procurement process and the critical path. The
procurement plan will be updated every three months and reviewed by IDA at three-months
intervals. The procurement plan i s part of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and be
updated and reviewedby IDA as one o f the three components o f the Financial Monitoring
Report. The planwill be later complemented by the inclusion of packages to be co-financed by
other donors incase a sector-wide approach will be adopted.

Civil Works

Civil works contracts, financed by IDA for the construction o f primary and secondary schools
and hostels, that are estimated to cost more than US$750,000 equivalent for contract, will be
procured through International Competitive Bidding(ICB) procedures.

Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than US$750,000 equivalent may be awarded
through National Competitive Bidding(NCB) using national procedures including review o f the
evaluation committee's decisions by the Lesotho Tender Board.

Contracts for small works estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an



                                                  - 76 -

aggregate contract o f US$1.5 million equivalent, may be procured either under (i)"community
participation" methods subject to Bank approval o fthe procedures to be used OR (ii)       under
lump-sum,fixed-price contracts awardedonthe basis of quotations obtained from three qualified
national contractors invited inwriting to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed description o f
the works, includingbasic specifications, the requiredcompletion date, a basic form o f
agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings where applicable. The awards will be made
to the contractors who offer the lowestprice quotation for the required work, providedthey
demonstrate they have the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Contracts under "community participation" and "price quotations" will be mostly for works
relating to small constructions such as small primary schools and classrooms inremotte areas,
teachers houses and rehabilitation o f existingschool facilities inrural areas.

Goods

Procurement for goods will be bulked where feasible into packages valued at US$100,000
equivalent or more and will be procuredthrough competitive methods.

Contracts estimatedto cost more than US$lOO,OOO will be procured through International
Competitive Bidding(ICB) procedures. Bank' standard biddocuments for the procurement o f
goods and Bank's standard Formo f Evaluationshould be used for all contracts to be procured
under ICB.

Textbooks for primary and secondary schools for an estimated amount o f US$1.4 million
imported from abroad will be procured either through ICB (for textbooks which can be procured
from the international market) or LimitedInternational Bidding(LIB) procurement methods
since the number o f publishers represented inLesotho i s small and there i s little interest for other
firms to compete for relatively small contracts. Individualcontracts will be usuallybelow the
threshold o f US$200,000 equivalent.

School furniture and other goods available locally and estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO
equivalent for contract may be procured through NCB procurement method..

Photocopies, computers, office equipment that are estimated to cost less than US$30,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate o f US$300,000 equivalent, may be procured through
either International Shopping procedures (for goods not available on the local market) or
National Shopping procedures (for goods available locally) inaccordance with Bank Guidelines
for procurement.

The Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office o f the UNDP (IAPSO) may be used for urgent
purchases and goods which cannot be packagedwith similar goods due to scheduling o f the
purchase.

ConsultantServices

Consulting services that are estimated to cost more than US$75,000 equivalent for contract will


                                                - 77 -

be selected through competition among qualified short-listed firms based on Quality and Cost
Based selection (QCBS) procedures by evaluating the quality o f the proposals before comparing
the cost o fthe services to be provided.

Contract for consulting services o f estimatedto cost less than US$75,000 may be awarded either
through QCBS or, subject to Bank no objection to its use, through Least-Cost Selection (LCS)
procedures.

Consultants for financial audits and other repetitive services estimated to cost less than
US$75,000 equivalent for contract, up to an aggregate o f US$200,000 equivalent, may be
selected through Least-Cost Selection method.

Consulting services estimated to cost less than US$50,000 and contracts for twining
arrangements, for an aggregate cost o f US$2.5 millionequivalent for which the needfor
preparing and evaluating competitive proposals may not bejustified, may be awarded based on
Consultants Qualzjkations (CQ) method. The selected institutions will be requiredto submit a
combined technical and financial proposal and then invited to negotiate the contract.

Individual consultants need for procurement, financial management, contracts supervision,
curriculum development, teacher development, school-level management, planning unit,
technical and vocational education, and non-formal educationmay be selected based on the
Selection o f Individual Consultants method (IC); The consultants will be selected through
comparison o fjob description requirements against the qualifications o f those expressing interest
inthe assignment or those approacheddirectly.

To ensure that priority i s given to the identification o f suitable and qualified national consultants,
short-lists for contracts estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent may be comprised
entirely of national consultants inaccordance with section 2.7 o fthe Consultants Guidelines,
providedthat a sufficient number o f qualified individuals or firms are available at competitive
costs. However, if foreign firms or individuals have expressed interest, they will not be
excluded from consideration.

The Bank' StandardRequest for Proposal (RFP) will be used for requestingproposals and for
selection and appointments o f consulting firms under QCBS and LCS selection procedures. The
RFOincludes standard contracts for time-based and lumpsumremuneration contracts for
complex assignments under both QCBS and LCS.

Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments such as simple missions o f standard
nature not exceeding six months carried out by individual consultants or firms. These contracts
will beused mostly for consultants recruitedunder Qualifications and Fixed Budget selection
procedures.

Training, Workshops, and Study Tours

Training within the country and abroad, including workshops and studytours, will be carried out
on the basis o f IDA-approvedprograms. The Borrower will identifythe nature o f training/


                                                  - 78 -

study-tours/ workshops/ bursaries and personnel to be trained, the duration o f the training / study
tours/ workshops and institutions where the activities would be conducted, cost estimates,
content o f the courses. This informationwill be reviewedby IDA quarterly.

Procurement methods (Table A)




                                                              (1.5)                       (1.5)
4 Training,workshops, and study                                4.0                         4.0
tours                                                         (4.0)                       (4.0)
5. Bursaries                                                   2.8                         2.8
                                                              (1.4)                       (1.4)
6. Operating Expenses                                         1.56                        1.56
                                                             (1.4)                        (1.4)
7. Project staff salaryhenefits                                        3.12               3.12

8. Unallocated                                                                            1.96
                                                                                          (1.8)
TOTAL                              1.5      8.68              11.94   3.12                 27.2
                                   (1.35)  (7.81)            (10.04)                       (21)




                                              - 79 -

                      Table AI: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                         (US$ million equivalent)




                           (1.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.15)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (1.15)
B. Individuals              0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00        0.50     0.00       0.00      0.50
                           (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.50)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.50)
                   Total    1.00      0.00       0.00     0.00        0.65     0.00       0.00       1.65
                           (1.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.65)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (1.65)
I\Includingcontingencies

          Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                QBS = Quality-based Selection
                SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
                Practices, etc.
                N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.




                                                   - 80 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)

                  Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'




Individuals                           >$50,000                                                      ALL




 ~              ~



"Thresholds generallydiffer by countryand project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
 Procurement" andcontact the RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                    -81 -

            Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
            LESOTHO: Second Education Sector Development Project (Phase II)

FinancialManagement
1. Summary of the FinancialManagement Assessment

The project is to be implemented bythe Ministryo fEducationand Training (MOET), through its
Education Planning Unit and supportedby the Project Support and Coordination Unit (PSCU).

Accounting systems and the relatedpillars o f intemal control are already fully established.
Competent staff with the experience o f runningthe previous Bank supported phase are being
retained, as are the proven funds flow mechanisms used inthat phase.

A new computer software is beingintroducedto enhance both control and the accuracyo frecord
keeping. Prior to this, record keepingwas largely manual, with only certain reports being
generated inExcel. All staff will therefore require training inthe use o f the new software, as well
as general training on accounting ina computerized environment.

Inaddition, the project will be required to produce Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs).While
the new software will go some way towards facilitatingthis, the present accounting staff will
require some training and mentoring inthe designand productiono f FMRs.

The existingexternal audit arrangements are adequate, with a statutory audit carried out annually
by the country's Auditor General on terms acceptable to the Bank.

Summary RiskAssessment:

Topic                      Risk         Comments/recommendations
                           Assessment1                                                               I
Inherent Risk
country                    M            Low financial management capacity in general. Mitigatedby
                                        use o f advisors.
Implementing Entity       N             Core staff already inplace and experience inworking with
                                        previous phase o f the project.
Overall Inherent Risk     fl           Moderate countrv risk well mitigated Der above.
ControlRisk
ImplementingEntity        N             Intemal control framework and org structure well established.
FundsFlow                 N             Banking structure that works already inplace.
Staffing                  N             There is enoughqualified staffhandling project financial
                                        matters.
Accounting Policies and   N             Policies and procedures already codified ina financial
Procedures                              management manual, and intemal control systemsadequate.
Intemal Audit             N/A           There is no Internal Audit functionat the project.
External Audit            N             Clean audit report, although producedlate.
Financial Reporting and   N             Adequate quarterly and annual financial and other


                                                - 82 -

Monitoring                                 management reports are produced for use by the relevant
                                           stakeholders.
InformationSystems          M              Although this is adequate, runningon excel, activity to
                                           upgrade this to aproper accountingpackageis inprogress
Overall Control Risk        N

Overall Risk
Assessment: Low or
negligible


Overall therefore, the review concluded that the systems,procedures and staffing of the PSCUsatisfy the
Bank's minimumj5nancial management requirements.

Country FinancialIssues

A CountryFinancial AccountabilityAssessment (CFAA)for Lesotho has not yet been carried out
(projected for FY04). Based on country experience however, it i s known that the country i s
handicapped by a serious lack o f capacity inthe area o f financial management. While there i s a
small number o f qualified Basotho accountants, these have tended to be wowed by richer rewards
inneighboring SouthAfrica. Bank assisted projectshavetherefore traditionally reliedon outside
advisors to assist the projects intheir implementation efforts. Subject to observations under
`project management and coordination' below, this arrangement i s expected to continue.

The other significant observation relates to the issue o f fraud and corruptioninvolving donor
funds: while the situation is no where near rampant, a highprofile fraud and corruption trial
involving one o f the Bank assisted projects inthe country has recently been completed. The area
identified as most susceptible to corruptionwas procurement, but it does involve finances at the
end o f the day. To mitigate this, it is recommended that internal audit be introduced at the
project.

The Financial Management System

Stafjng of theAccounting Function

The finance function at the PSCU has a core staff o f a Financial Controller, a Chief Accountant,
two Principal Accountants, and several support staff. The staffing levels appear adequate,
although the position o f ChiefAccountant has been vacant for a long period. It i s accepted
however that with the first phase o f the project closing, some o f the vacancies may have not
needed addressing. These positions can be revisited when the nextphase becomes effective.

As indicated earlier, the function continues to enjoy the support o fthe former advisor on
Financial Management, now Project Coordinator. The PSCU Financial Controller, under his
tutelage, i s now fairly well versed inBank procedures herself, although more training on the new
FMRs will be required for the entire team. A new accounting software is proposed (see below),
meaning that accounting personnel will require training on this as well.



                                                  - 83 -

Internal Controls includingpolicies andprocedures

The PSCUhas taken all the necessary steps to ensure that the project complies with the relevant
Bank policies (OP/BP 10.02). These include the establishment o f internal controls and proper
accounting procedures and which were documented inan Operational Manual for the old project.
The Manual includes, inadditionto general administrative procedures, financial management
procedures, staffing requirements, identification of accounting and auditing standards to be
adhered to by the project, project reporting and monitoring, procurement procedures, procedures
for banking, and procedures for the management o f cash.

Itis expectedthat this manual will beupdated to include operating ina computerized
environment, and adopted for the new phase.

As was the case duringthe previous phase, and inline with government accounting, IDA andthe
related counter part funds will be accounted for on a cashbasis.

Record Keeping

The current record keeping/ filing system was found to be satisfactory. This system is expected
to be retained, but some tightening up will be required inthe maintenance o f the FixedAssets
Register, as well as the Contracts Ledger.

Internal Audit

The project does not have internal audit at the moment. The project is multiactivity, meaning
that payments will be made inlarge numbers for a relativelylarge number o f activities. To
compliment the `payment authorization' controls that are inplace, it i s desirable to introduce
internal audit into the system. Internal audit acts as a deterrent to crime (one may be discouraged
from committing fraud simplyby knowing that their books will be subjectedto detailed scrutiny
-the type one does not get from external audit). Internal audit also acts as a cure for crime -
where an offence has been committed, it takes a skilled internal auditor to uncover the crime and
present evidence o f the crime.

The internal audit department would also compliment physical project monitoringefforts, inthe
absence o f a dedicated project monitoring and evaluation department.

Financial Reporting and Monitoring

The PSCU will continue to maintainaccounts for the Project andwill ensure appropriate
accounting for the funds provided. Although adequate monthly, quarterly, and annual financial
and other management reports are currently produced for use by the relevant stakeholders, the
formats o f these would need to be substantially modified to meet the requirements o f the new
FMRs.The PSCUwill be responsible for designing the appropriate financial monitoringreports
(FMRs) andproducingthem (FMRs)on a quarterly basis.


                                                - 84 -

Budgeting and Planning

An adequate and thorough consultative process is inuse for the generationo fbudgets, usingthe
Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF).

ComputerizedAccounting Systems

ESDP I1Phase Ihas been operating on a spreadsheet (Excel) based accounting and reporting
system. However a decision appears to have been made to replace this system, due to the
existence o f several shortcomings identifiedwith the spreadsheet based system. DuringESDP I1
Phase 11, an off-the-shelf financial management system which has the capacity o f producing the
agreed Financial Monitoring Report will be purchsed and installed. Relevant staff will be trained
on the use o f the new system and productiono f the FMRreports by IDA'Sfinancial management
specialist.

FinancialManagementActionPlan

The format and contents o f FMRswere determined as part o f project appraisal, and agreed at
negotiations.
Reconstruction o f the present FixedAssets Register was also completed by negotiations

FinancialCovenants

The following covenants relate to financial matters:

0       The Government will cause the PSCUto have its records, accounts and financial
        statements audited each year, commencing with the accounts for the year endingMarch
        2004;
0       The PSCU will submit quarterly FMRs, starting with the first quarter after effectiveness.

SupervisionPlan

The reports o f the progress o fproject implementation will be monitoredindetail during
supervision missions. FMRswill be reviewedon a quarterly basis by the field basedFMS and the
results or issues followed up duringthe supervision missions. The project's audit reports will be
reviewedand issues identifiedwill be followed up. The field basedFMS would monitor the
agreed action planto ensure appropriate actions have been implemented by the PSCU.

ImplementationSchedule

The project will be implemented over a four-year period.

2. Audit Arrangements
Itis expectedthat the PSCUwill continue to be audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank, on
terms acceptable to the Bank (based on the `terms of reference' (TORS)o f the first phase o f the


                                               - 85 -

project). Audited financial statements for the project would continue to be sent to the Bank
within six months of the end of the financial year, accompaniedby a detailed audit comments
(management) letter.

3. Disbursement Arrangements

The project is expected to continue to operate three bank accounts as follows:
         The SpecialAccount (SA) (USD)heldat the Lesotho Central Bank for withdrawals from
         the IDA Credit account, transfers to local currency account, and payments to foreign
         suppliers.
o        Local currency (maloti) account at the Central Bank for receiving transfers from the
         Special Account, and making maloti payments to
         local suppliers.
o        Local currency (maloti) account at the Central Bank for housing counter part funds.

All three bank accounts will bereconciled with bank statements on a monthlybasis.
Reconciliations will be approved by the Financial Controller on a timely basis; identified
differences will be expeditiously investigated.

Disbursement and withdrawal procedures for the credit will be based on the transaction-based
disbursement method as detailed inthe World Bank Disbursement Handbook. All disbursements
are subject to the conditions o f the Credit Agreement and the procedures defined inthe
DisbursementLetter.

FMRsproducedwill essentially be a reporting tool untilsuchtime that the quality ofreporting is
deemed sufficiently highto support replenishment requests.

 Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)

                                 Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds

1Works     Expenditure Category           I Amount   in US$million I      Financing Percentage
                                                      7.70                           90
 Goods                                                3.20          100%of foreign expendituresand 90%
                                                                           of local expenditures
IConsultants                              I           1.50         I                 90               I
ITraining, workshops, and study tours                 4.00                           100
 Bursaries                                            1.40                           50
 Operating Expenses                                   1.40          100%of foreign expendituresand 90%
                                                                           o f local expenditures
IUnallocated                                          1.80

 Total Project Costs with Bank Financing             21.00

 Total                                               21.oo




                                                  - 86 -

 Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit account will be fully documented except
for expenditures against contracts (i)with an estimated value o f $US750,000 each or less for
works; (ii) with an estimated value o f US$200,000 or less for consulting firms and goods; (iii)
with an estimated value o f US$50,000 or less for individual consultants; and (iv) for all training
workshops and study tours, which may be claimed on the basis o f certified Statements o f
Expenditure (SOEs). Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be
retained at the PSCU o f the Ministry o f Education and will be available for review as requested
by IDA supervision missions andproject auditors.

 Special account:
The authorized allocation for the special account (SA) will be US$l.5 million, covering an
estimated four months o f eligible expenditures financed by IDA. Upon credit effectiveness or as
needed, an amount of US$750,000 will be deposited in the SA. Subsequent deposits may be
requested as needed once total disbursements from the Credit Account reach SDR3,000,000.
Replenishment applications should be submitted regularly, preferably monthly, after monthly
bank statements are received and reconciled, with appropriate supporting documents for local
and foreign expenditures as required. Only IDA'Sshare o f eligible expenditures will be paid
through the special account.




                                              - 87 -

                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
           LESOTHO: Second Education Sector Development Project (Phase II)




1 Appraisalmission departure                  I       03/10/2003             I    04/05/2003    I
  Negotiations                                        05/01/2003                  05/05/2003
  Planned Date of Effectiveness                       09/01/2003


Prepared by:
Lesotho Ministryof Education and Training and the World Bank Task Team


Preparation assistance:


Bank staff who worked on the project nciuded:
         Name                                         Speciality
 Xiaoyan Liang                         Task Team Leader, AFTHl
 Bruce Jones                           Senior Economist, AFTHl
 Noel Kulemeka                         Senior Economist, AFTH1
 Francesco Sarno                       Procurement Consultant, AFTQK
 Jonathan Nyamukapa                    FinancialManagement Specialist, AFTFM
 Lori Geurts                           Program Assistant, AFTHl
 Arvil Van Adams                       Lead Social Protection Specialist, AFTHD
 Hongyu Yang                           Operations Officer, HDNED
 T. Mpoy-Kamulayi                      Lead Counsel, LEGAF
 Modupe Adebowale                      Senior Finance Officer, LOAG2
 Tesfaalem G. Iyesus.                  Senior Procurement Specialist, AFTQK




                                               - 88 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
          LESOTHO: Second Education Sector Development Project (Phase II)


A. Project Implementation Plan


Project ImplementationManual
Project Procurement Plan
MOE Training Plan

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Back to Office Report by David Court on Lesotho Higher Education

C. Other
Teacher Development and Training (final report by Ciaran Sugrue)
Lesotho Public Expenditure Review o f the Education Sector 2002
Lesotho Medium Term Expenditure Framework (2003-2005) submission
Education Sector Strategic Plan Draft
Draft Letter o f Education Sector Development Policy
Lesotho ESDP I1Phase I1Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF)
Lesotho ESDP I1Phase I1Resettlement Policy Framework


*Including electronic files




                                                 - 89 -

                                             Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                       LESOTHO: Second Education Sector Development Project (Phase II)
                                                             21-May-2003
                                                                                                                        Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                 and actual
                                                                  Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements"
 Project ID  FY    Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA                   GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P052367      2002 MALOTI-DRAKENSBERG CONSERV. a DEVELOP          0.00       0.00                   7.32    0.00      7.86        1.22      0.00
PO70673      2001 Utilities Sector ReformProject                 0.00      28.60                   0.00    0.00    20.24         1.00      0.00
PO58050      2000 CommunityDevelopmentSupport Project            0.00       4.67                   0.00    0.00      4.22        3.99      2.74
PO53200      2000 Health SectorReform Project                    0.00        6.50                  0.00     0.00     3.78        1.76      0.00
PO56416      1999 SECONDEDUSEC DEVP                              0.00      21.00                   0.00    0.00      3.93        5.23      5.15
PO01402      1998 AG POL    a CAP BLDG                           0.00        6.80                  0.00     0.00     2.30        2.31      1.97
PO01409      1998 HILANDWATER IB                                45.00        0.00                  0.00     9.00   17.54        18.71      4.54
PO01403      1996 ROAD REHAB a MAINT                             0.00      40.00                   0.00    11.77     4.23       20.52      7.09

                                                      Total:   45.00       107.57                7.32     20.77     64.10       54.74     21.48




                                                                 - 90 -

                                         LESOTHO
                                     STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                        Jun 30   - 2002
                                      InMillions US Dollars

                                                        Committed                       Disbursed
                                                      IFC                             IFC
FY Approval    Company                         Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic


                     Total Portfolio:          0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00



                                                   Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                             Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic


              Total PendingCommitment:             0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00




                                              -91 -

                                                      Annex IO: Country at a Glance
               LESOTHO: Second Education Sector Development Project (Phase II)
                                                                                     SUb-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                                Saharan         Low-
                                                                  Lesotho           Africa    income            Developmentdiamond*
2001
Population,mid-year(millions)                                           2.1           674       2,511                           Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                     550            470         430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                        1.I 317                 1,069                                  -

Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                                          1.6            2.5         1.9
Laborforce (%I                                                          1.9            2.6         2.3          GNi                                        Gross
                                                                                                                per                                      primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                                           capita                                 nrollment
Poverty(% of populationbelownationalpovelty line)
Urbanpopulation (% oftotalpopulation)                                   29              32          31
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                          44              47          59
Infant mortality(per 1,000live births)                                  91              91          76
Child malnutrition (% of chiidfen under5)                               16                                            Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                      91              55          76
Illiteracy(% of populationage f5+)                                      16              37          37                  -
Gross primaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)                     104              78          96                           Lesotho
    Male                                                                99              85        103                             Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                             108              72          88

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                          1981        1991           2000        2001            Economlcratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                         0.43        0.69           0.90        0.80
Grossdomestic investmenffGDP                               37.6       64.1            33.5        35.7
Exportsof goods and services/GDP                            19.3       15.7           27.8        42.0                               Trade
Grossdomestic savingslGDP                                 -60.1       -50.0          -25.7       -13.8
Gross national savings/GDP                                 26.3       28.9            22.1        34.0                                 r\\
Currentaccountbalance/GDP                                 -65.9       -42.5          -19.2       -12.2
InterestpaymentsiGDP                                                    1.4            2.3         2.6                                                   estment
Total debtlGDP                                                         64.9           80.2        92.1         I si
Total debt sewice/exports                                               4.1           11.3        11.2                                  I
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                              57.3
Presentvalue of debffexports                                                          93.6
                                                                                                                                  Indebtedness
                                           1981-91      1991-01       2000           2001     2001-05
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                                   -
GDP                                             5.2          4.0        3.3            4.0         4.1                            Lesotho
GDP Der Caoita                                  3.0          2.0        1.9            2.6         3.1                             Low-incomegroup
Exportsof goods and sewices                     6.1          8.9        1.I            3.2         5.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                           1981       1991           2000        2001            Growth of investmentand GDP (Oh)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                                                                      I
Agriculture                                                 26.8       17.0           16.9        16.3           15

industry                                                    24.6       29.5           39.9        42.0            0
   Manufacturing                                             9.1       14.1           16.0        16.8
Services                                                    48.6       53.4           43.2        41.7          -15

Private consumption                                       139.2       134.4          107.4        97.2          -30
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                20.9       15.5           I8.3        16.6
Importsof goods and services                              117.0       129.8           87.0        91.5

                                                        1981-91 1991-01              2000        2001
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                           Growthof exportsand imports(%)

Agriculture                                                  2.9        2.7           -1.9         -1.6         30 T
Industry                                                     5.0        7.5           16.8         7.9
   Manufacturing                                             8.4        5.8            4.1          7.0
Services                                                     6.0        2.7           -1.2         -0.7

Privateconsumption                                           3.1        0.0           -8.0         4.0
Generalgovernment consumption                                3.2        5.6            0.8         -3.1
Gross domesticinvestment                                     7.8       -1.4           -3.6       -20.9
imports of goods and services                                3.8        0.4            2.7         4.5

Note: 2001 data are preliminaly estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (inbold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wili be incomplete.




                                                                                 - 92 -

                                                                                                                Lesotho

PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                        1981  1991   2000   2001      Inflation( O h )
Domesticprices
(% change)                                                           15 T


Consumer prices                         12.4  17.7     6.2   7.1
ImplicitGDP deflator                    12.2  14.0     8.6   5.7

Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                               40.5    40.8  40.1               96        97       98       99   00       01
Current budget balance                        10.0     2.9   5.3               -GDP           deflator   *CPI            'II
Overall surDlus/deficit                       -8.9    -7.5  -3.4


TRADE
                                        1981  1991   2000   2001
(US$ millions)                                                         Exportand import levels (US$ mlll.)

Total exports (fob)                            62     214    286    11 250 T
 Clothing and othergoods                               25     23
 Machineryand transport equipment                        6     6
 Manufactures                                            7     6
Total imports(cif)                             694    736    675
 Food
 Fueland energy
 Capitalgoods                                                        1        95      96     97     98     99   00     01
Export priceindex (1995=100)
import priceindex(1995=100)                                                               Exports            Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100)

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        1981  1991   2000   2001     1
(US$ millions)                                                         Current account balance to GDP (Oh)                 I
Exportsof goods and services              80   114    261    333
Importsof goods and services             504   884    782    722
Resource balance                        -424  -771    -521  -390

Net income                               293   375    220    175
Net currenttransfers                    -155   102     128   118

Current accountbalance                  -286  -293    -173   -97

Financing items (net)                    287   251     95     84
Changes in net reserves                   -1    42     78     13      -40 -

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)      43   123    417    395
Conversionrate (DEC, local/US$I          0.9   2.8     6.9   8.6

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1981  1991    2000  2001
(US$ millions)                                                         composition of 2001 debt (LIS$ mlll.)
Totaldebtoutstanding and disbursed             448     721   734
  IBRD                                           0      58    58
  IDA                                          121     203   217                        F 5 ,  = : 7 A 5 8


Total debt service                              24      62    63
  IBRD                                           0      10    10
  IDA                                            2       3      5

Composition of net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                          10    31       8      5
  Officialcreditors                             45      45    21
  Privatecreditors                               1      -1     -2
  Foreigndirectinvestment
  Portfolioequity
World Bank program
  Commitments                                            7    29       A IBRD                                 E Bilateral
                                                                                                               -
  Disbursements                                  9      28    22       B IDA          D .Other multilateral  F. Private
  Principalrepayments                            1       8      9      C IMF
                                                                         .-.                                 G Short-term
                                                                                                               .
  Netflows                                       8      20    13
  Interest payments                              1       5      6
  Net transfers                                  7      15      7

ueveiopmenreconomics                                                                                                YlLJlVL




                                                   - 93 -

 Additional Annex 11 : Fulfillmentof Triggers for Movingfrom APL Phase I to Phase II
            LESOTHO: Second EducationSector DevelopmentProject (Phase II)

The six triggers to qualify GOL to receive Phase I1are stated on page 4 o f the Phase IPAD. The
six triggers are repeated as "Performance Indicators" inSchedule 6 o f the Phase IDCA.

Some o f the triggers are worded as ifthey were "dated covenants ina legal agreement. The
                                                                          "
view taken here i s that, for triggers, similarly to tranche release conditions inadjustment lending,
the critical question i s whether the quantitative objective has beenachieved, or the action has
been taken, even iflater than the date mentioned. The status o f fulfillment o f the six triggers i s
described below.

Trigger 1: "Net enrollment rate in Standards 1-7 increasedfrom 68% to 73% by December
2002". The primaryNet EnrollmentRatio (the percentage o f children o fprimary school age,
6-12, who are enrolled inprimary school) i s a statistic that can either be measured directlyfrom
household surveys, or estimatedfrom a combination of administratively collected enrollment
data (the numerator of the ratio) and a demographic estimate (the denominator of the ratio).

At the time PhaseIwas preparedandnegotiated, the Ministryo f Educationand Training had
estimated the baseline NER(1996) to be 68%. Duringsupervision, it became evident that the
projections o f school-age population beingreliedupon were unsuitable, for two reasons: (a)
GOL's existing projections didnot take into account the impact o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic on
mortality; (b) the projections were for Lesotho's dejure population(including Basotho absent in
South Africa for extended periods o f time for reasons o f employment), rather then the defacto
population (the populationliving within Lesotho's territory), which i s what i s relevant for
primary education purposes. Accordingly, new projections o f Lesotho's defacto populationhave
been prepared, taking into account AIDS-related mortality. The results are reflected inthe Table
below.

                        Table: Primary Net Enrollment Ratio, 1996-2002

                                        1996      1997       1998     1999   2000   2001      2002

Enrollment of children ages 6-12         243       234        218      206    280    282       284
  (administratively collected data)

Population of children ages 6-12         340       339        342      338    339    336       334

NER computed from the above             71%       69%         64%      61%   83%
I                                                                                    84%      85%

NER from Lesotho Demographic                                                         86%
 Survev 2001                                                                                      I
The NER impliedbythe new demographic projection i s closely corroborated by two household
surveys - the Lesotho Demographic Survey 2001, and the Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
2002, thereby supporting the validity o f the new demographic projection.

The data show that the NERhad been on a declining trend between 1996 and 1999,as indicated
inthe PADfor PhaseI.The NERjumped by 22 percentage points whenthe Free Primary
Education policy was introduced inthe year 2000, and has been sustained at the relatively high


                                                      - 94 -

level o f about 85% since. Trigger 1has been surpassed, interms o f both the level o f 2002, and
the magnitude o f improvement between 1996 and 2002 (14 percentage points actual, versus 5
percentage points targeted).

Trigger 2: "MTEFused consistently; 70% of education recurrent budget (increasedfrom
68%) allocatedfor and expended onprimary and secondary educationfor fiscal year April
2001 and onward." This "trigger" actually stringstogether two triggers: a process trigger
relating to MTEF, and an outcome trigger relating to budget allocations and actual expenditures.

MTEFprocess: Followingcompletion o f a Public Expenditure Review inearly 2002, the
MinistryofEducationpreparedits first-ever MediumTermExpenditure Frameworktowardthe
end o f 2002. As illustrated by Table 4.6 inAnnex 4, the Ministryo f Education's budget for
2003/04, as proposedto Parliament by the Ministryo f Finance, closely follows the what hadbeen
proposed for 2003/04 inthe Ministryo f Education's MTEF. The Bank staff consider that this
demonstrates that the MTEF is being "used",and that therefore thisportion of Trigger 2 is
fulfilled. However, the fact that the MTEF process thus far has not embraced the bursaries
administered throughthe National Manpower Development Secretariat i s a limitation.

BudgeUexpenditurepercent distributions: As was the case with the Net Enrollment Ratio
trigger, we also have a "baseline problem" with the "Percentage o f the Budget" trigger. The 68%
figure inthe main text o f the Phase IP A D i s consistent with Annex 4 o f the Phase IPAD, where
it is stated that in 1996/97the share ofprimary was 45%, andthe share of secondary was 24% (if
these numbers are rounded up, their sumcould be 68%). However, considering that Phase Iwas
negotiated inFebruary 1999,the relevant base year should have beenApril 1998/March1999.




                                                 -95-

As shown inthe Table, accordingto the recent EducationP.E.R. the shares o fprimaryplus
secondary amounted to 57% in 1998/99. (It is possible that there are definitional differences
between Phase IPAD Annex 4 and the Education P.E.R., but we cannot confirm this because
Phase IP A D Annex 4 does not explain how its aggregate numbers were derived from the
underlyingdata.) The P.E.R. data follow a scheme for classifying expenditures on
levels/subsectors, agreed betweenthe Bank supervision team and the Ministryo f Education.
TVET, which is a mixture o fupper secondary andpost-secondaryprograms, is a separate
subsector. Bursaries administeredthrough the National Manpower Development Secretariat
(which was part o f the Ministryo f Education at the time Phase Iwas appraised and negotiated,
butwas subsequently transferred to the Ministryo f Planning) are treated consistently throughout
as part o f the GOL's education sector expenditure. The percentage o f education sector
expenditure devoted to primary plus secondary has beenon an increasingtrend, reaching 61% in
the budget for the current fiscal year, 2002/03.

The annual budget for the fiscal year beginningApril 2003 became available only duringthe
appraisal mission. As far as the budget for the Ministry o f Education i s concerned, the Ministry
o f Finance has largely adhered to the priorities set out inthe MTEF. However, the budget for
NMDSwas not part ofthe MTEFsubmissionfrom the MinistryofEducation. The NMDS
budget for the fiscal year beginninginApril 2003 almost doubled as compared to the previous
year, to Maloti 198 million. When the NMDS budget i s includedas total education sector
budget, the share o f recurrent budget devoted to primary and secondary education dropped to
57.7% (rounded up to 58% inthe Table). It is worth noting, however, that the share o fprimary
alone has increased over the period, from 36% to 40%. There has been reduction inthe share o f
secondary, a subsector which has been characterized inthe past by inefficiencies and highcosts
arising from the teacher deployment and utilization practices.

Inthe view ofthe Bank staff, progress inrelationto the intentofthe secondpart ofTrigger 2,
which was to increase the share o f the budget devoted to primary and secondary, relative to
tertiary, has been inadequate.

Trigger 3: "At least 75% of SchoolAdvisory and Management Committeesfor primary and
secondary schoolsfunctioning satisfactorily by December 2001 (assessed independently)".
MOEis about to conduct an impact assessment.

Triggers 4 and 5: "Technical and VocationalEducation Act in place by December 2000" and
"Afinancial management andperformance monitoring systemfor TVET in place by June
2002". These two triggers will not be fulfilled by December 2003. Factors contributing to the
unsatisfactoryperformance o f the TVET sub-sector, as stated in Section B 2.1 o f this PAD,
include the lack o f a TVET reform champion, the lack o f sustained technical assistance, and the
fact that reforms inTVET are complex and can take as long as 10 to 15 years. It is necessary to
continue laying the foundation for TVET reform during Phase 11. Support for TVET inPhase I1
will be coupled with long-termtechnical assistance to the Ministry.




                                                - 96 -

Trigger 6: "NFEAct approved; operationalguidelines issued and options deJirtedby
December 2001    ". This trigger is unlikely to be fulfilled. Prior to the introduction o f Free
Primary Education, non-formal education was identifiedas a priority for the Ministryo f
Educationto achieve its EFA goals. The introduction o f FPE has successfully brought into the
formal school system many o f the children who could not afford schooling before. There i s now
a need to re-orient non-formal education from a predominantly literacy program for children who
could not afford formal schooling to a skills development program for adults who are beyond the
age o f formal schooling. IDA Phase I1will continue to support the Learning Post pilot intwo
districts, but now with an emphasis beyond basic literacy and numeracy.




                                                - 97 -

              Additional Annex 12: Performance Indicators and Technical Notes
             LESOTHO: Second Education Sector Development Project (Phase II)



Develoment Objective/Impact Indicators with Baseline Data for ESDPI1PhaseI1

                                                                                              2002    2007 target 2011target
    Outcomellmpact indicators                                                               (Baseline  (end of    (end of the
                                                                                             data)     phase 2)    program)
    Share of total educationrecurrent budget increased (including NMDS) devotedto primary     58%       65%          70%
I2 IECCDcoverage
    and secondary education increased
                     increased                                                             I  31%    I  40%      I   50%     I
 3 Primarycompletion rate increased                                                           77%        83%         90%

 4 Primary net enrollment ratio increased                                                     85%        90%         93%
-~
 5 Lower Secondary educationcoverage Form A-C (gross enrollment) increased                    43%        50%         60%

    Performance(overall mean) of national achievement test at primaryeducation level in Math
    and Languagesimproved:
          - Standard3 Mathematics overallmeanscoreimproved                                    44%        50%         57%
          - Standard  3 English Comprehensionoverallmeanscore improved                        31%        36%         40%
I  I      -                                                                                                                  I
            Standard3 Sesotho Comprehensionoverallmeanscore improved                          71%        75%         80%
          - Standard6   Mathematics overallmeanscore improved                                 49%        55%         60%
          - Standard6 EnglishComprehensionoverallmeanscore improved                           45%        50%         55%
I  I      -                                                                                                                   1
            Standard6 Sesotho Comprehensionoverallmeanscore improved                          58%        65%         70%
    An adequate legal and regulatory framework conducive to a demand-drivenTVET system
    in nlace

    Notes:
    1. Enrollment/ Graduate data and test scores are all from the Ministry of Education.
    2. Population data are from UNNVB projections by Carl Haub based on 1996 census de facto data


Definitionand TechnicalNotefor Outcome/ImpactIndicators

1.        Shareof education recurrentbudget devoted to primary and secondary education.
Total education recurrent budgetshall include the bursary budgetwhich i s administered by the
National Manpower Development Secretariat.

2.        ECCD (Early Childhood Care and Development) coverage rate is defined as the total
number o f children registered inECCD centers countrywide plus total number o f children inthe
home-bases infour pilot districts divided by populationage fkom 3-5.

3.        Primary CompletionRate. The total number o f students completing the final year o f
primary education (inthis case, the number o f students participate inthe Lesotho PSLE),
regardless o f age, expressed as a percentage o f the population at the Lesotho official primary
graduation age (13).



                                                               - 98 -

The purpose o f this indicator is to measure the percentage o f all children who complete the
primary education cycle and track progress toward the goal o f Education for All (which i s to
achieve universalprimary completion by the year 2015.

4.      Primary Net enrollment Ratiois the enrollment ofprimaryeducationwho are the
official primary school age (6-12 inLesotho), expressed as a percentage of the population o f the
same age group.

Primary net enrollment ration (NER) shows the extent o f participation inprimary education of
children belong to the official age group at this level. A highNERdenotes a highdegree o f
participation o f the official school-age population. The theoretical maximum values i s 100
percent. Increasing trends reflect improvingparticipation at the specified level o f education.
Whenthe NERis compared with the Gross Enrollment Ratio, the difference betweenratios
highlightsthe incidents o funder-aged and over-aged enrollment

5.      Lower Secondary EducationCoverage(gross enrollment). The total enrollment in
Form A, B and C, regardless o f age, expressed as a percentage o f the official school-age (13-15
inLesotho) inthe given school year.

The gross enrollment ratio (GER) indicates the capacity o fthe education systems to enroll
students o f a particular age group, and i s widely usedto show the general level o f participation
ina given levelofeducation. Itis usedas a substitute indicator for the net enrollment ratio.

6.      StandardNationalAssessment. The results usedfor this indicator are from the resent
(February, 2003) national assessment conducted by the Curriculum and Assessment Department
o f the Ministry o f Education. The assessmentwas to set a baseline for what students know and
can do in Sesotho, Englishand Mathematics.

For mathematics, the items includedadaptations from the ThirdInternational Mathematics and
Science Study (TIMSS) as well as past papers o f the Lesotho Primary School Leaving
Examinations (PSLE).

For Englishand Sesotho, the scheme and papers includedcomposition, reading comprehension
and language.




                                                 - 99 -

            Additional Annex 13: Letter of Sector Policy
   LESOTHO: Second Education Sector Development Project (Phase 11)




1" :
   _PhaseI




                               -100-

- 101 -

                              3




TargetedEqultylbsacdProgram




                                - 102-

4




   - 103-

      5




4.




        -104-

6




  -105-

7




  -106 -

-107-

9




  -108-

-109-


