Report No. PID11606
Project Name                     LESOTHO-Second Education Sector Development...
Project (APL Phase II)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Primary education (70%); Secondary education (23%);
Tertiary education (5%); Pre-primary education (2%)
Project ID                       P081269
Borrower(s)                      KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE)
Address: P.O. Box 47, Maseru 100, LESOTHO
Contact Person: Mr. Moshapane, Principal Secretary
Tel: 266 22323956
Fax: 266 22310206
Email: moshapanec@education.gov.ls
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 4, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              February 24, 2003
Bank Approval Date               June 12, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
2.1 Main Sector Issues. Despite these positive developments as described
above, many challenges remain. Primary education enrollment seems to have
stagnated after the initial jump in 2000 and wastage remains high.
Secondary coverage is low and regional and gender disparity in access to
secondary is high. Access to and quality of ECD services vary greatly
across the country;    The policy directions are not clear for TVET, higher
education, and non-formal education. Further, Lesotho has one of the
highest HIV/AIDS prevalence rate. The attrition of MOE officials, staff,
and teachers and the situation of orphans and other disadvantaged children
pose particularly serious challenges to the education sector. As for
education financing, though education enjoys a relatively high share of
total government budget, within education the share allocated to primary
and secondary education is still low compared to other countries. And the
relative high share of the education budget devoted to higher education
remains a concern. In short, Lesotho still has a long way to go to
achieving the Millenium Development Goals of universal primary education
by 2015 and eliminating gender disparity by 2005.
Primary and Secondary Education
Coverage. In the mid-1990s, Lesotho's primary participation rate started
to decrease significantly. Primary enrollment dropped from 378,000 in
1995 to only 365,000 in 1999. Consequently in 1999 the net primary
enrollment rate had fallen to 58w, as compared to 70- in early 1990s.
Major reason seemed to be that households could not afford high fees
charged in primary schools. Anecdotal evidence further suggested that the
declining employment opportunities for Basotho men in the South African
mines and the elimination of school fees in South Africa in 1994 could



have contributed to the primary enrollment decline.
Since more than 90% of the Basotho primary schools are owned by churches,
the Government had no control on the primary fees charged to parents even
though it was paying for teacher salaries. As part of the commitment to
EFA, the Government introduced in 1999 Free Primary Education (FPE) policy
which effectively reversed the declining trend of primary enrollment.
Primary enrollment increased by 12% in the first year of FPE and reached
more than 411,000. ESDP II Phase 1 (1999-2003) provided timely support in
constructing more classrooms, training teachers and strengthening school
level management, provided primary core textbooks, science kits, and other
teaching learning materials, strengthening the MOE institutional capacity
at the central level. The ESDP II support had helped maintain the
enrollment gain from FPE by ensuring adequate physical facility and
minimum primary education quality.    Primary enrollment continued to
increase in 2001 and 2002, though at a much slower rate. In 2002, primary
enrollment reached 418,668, resulting in primary NER of 69% according to
MOE data (which is close to the level of early 1990s) and a GER of more
than 1009.
The growth in enrollment after 2000 is much slower than expected. Primary
participation in rural areas consistenly lag behind that of the urban
areas. Recently completed Core Welfare Indicator Questionnaire (CWIQ)
Survey found that net primary enrollment rate in rural areas was 6
percentage points lower than that of the urban areas in 2002. There are
also fewer boys than girls enrolled in primary school though the gender
balance has improved consistently during the last decade. In addition to
low quality of education, lack of physical facilities continues to
constrain the growth in primary enrollment especially in remote districts
and overcrowded Maseru district. The EMIS data of 2000 show a national
average Pupil Teacher Ratio (PTR) of 47.9, with a variation between the
districts of 45.1 to 55.7. The Pupil Classroom Ratio (PCR) comes to 65.1
with a district variation between 57.5 to 97.7. In total there are 8,957
classes in 6,312 classrooms, which indicates that over 2,600 classes are
functioning either in double shifts and/or without classrooms. The data
also reveal that only 4,230 classrooms are of a permanent nature.
Secondary enrollment, on the other hand, has been steadily but slowly
growing since early 1990s. Secondary enrollment increased from 51,895 in
1992 to 77,919 in 2001. However, the growth is still not fast enough to
overcome the population growth and consequently gross secondary enrollment
rate was only 29% in 2001. Great disparity exists in secondary coverage:
more than 40% of the urban secondary age group are enrolled in secondary
schools, compared to only 20% for the rural area, and only 7% for the
rural poor (CWIQ 2002). Gender disparity is much more severe than that of
primary education. Female secondary enrollment rate is almost twice as
high as that of males.
Secondary coverage is constrained by factors including high level of fees
students have to pay for tuition, books and others and limited physical
facilities, in addition to quality and efficiency factors. A recent World
Bank study on "Growth and Employment Options Study for Lesotho" found that
secondary education contributes significantly to wage earnings.
Constraints on secondary participation will have to be addressed before
such benefits can materialize for Lesotho.
- 2-



Internal Efficienty and Quality. Wastage is still high in primary
education. Based on 2002 EMIS data, primary gross intake rate was more
than 117T  (number of new entrants over the population of 6 year olds),
however the primary completion rate (number of graduates over the
population of 12 year olds) was only 55%.    Though they are not the same
cohort, the trend still indicates a high proportion of primary students
drop out before completing the cycle. Further, the primary net intake
(number of new entrants who are 6 year olds over the population of all 6
year olds) in 2002 was only 45w, indicating that 55t of Basotho 6 year
olds will enroll at a later age, if at all. Repetition and dropout rates
tended to be higher for early grades due to FPE.
The Ministry of Education administers annually through the Examination
Council of Lesotho (ECOL) a Primary School Leaving Exam. The pass rate of
students who sat for the exam was 87.5w, representing a 3 percentrage
points increase over 2001. However, trend in student achievement still
can not be ascertained since there was delay in the preparation for the
1st national assessment, which is now expected in March 2003.
Multiple factors contribute to the low quality and low efficiency,
including a shortage of qualified teachers and overcrowded classrooms
(described above). In 2002, 25 percent of the teaching force didn't have a
diploma or above degrees and were therefore considered underqualified or
unqualified. Quality also suffers because of the lack of capacity in
management at the school level; many school heads and committees (Advisory
and Management Committees for primary schools and School Boards for
secondary schools) will require further training. Inspectors and advisors
generally lack training. School inspection has also been jeopardized by
lack of operational funds and over-centralized staffing structure. As a
result most inspectors spend the majority of working hours in central
offices filling out bureacratic forms, rather than visiting the schools.
The school advisory services were affected by similar issues and
consequently primary and secondary advisors have not been able to provide
timely pedagogical guidance to teachers.
The secondary education system also faces serious problems of wastage and
low quality. In 2002, the transition rate from primary Standard 7 to the
first year of secondary (Form A) was high (70 percent). But for every 100
children who entered Form A, only 10 students graduated from Form E. Some
33 percent of students dropped out between Forms A and C; another 24
percent dropped out between Forms D and E; and the transition rate was 64
percent from Form C to Form D. As for performance, 71 percent of the
pupils who sat for the Junior Certificate (JC) exam passed, but only 34
percent of those who sat for the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate
(COSC) passed. Pass rates were especially low in key subjects such as
mathematics. Again, trends in secondary student achievement in recent
years are not clear because there are no standardized attainment tests
administered yet.
Orphans and Other Disadvantaged Children. Lesotho has several types of
"disadvantaged children". The first type are orphans including HIV/AIDS
orphans.   Lesotho has relatively high HIV/AIDS prevalence rate, about 30;
according to a recent UN study. Though the exact number of orphans is not
known, the CWIQ 2002 survey found that 6.3t of all Basotho households are
caring for orphans under the age of 15. Assuming that each such household
-3 -



takes care of 2 orphans and there are more than 430,000 households, the
number of orphans will be more than 52,000!. The second type are herd
boys. The employment of herd boys, an inherited and enduring tradition,
is widespread in Lesotho. Spending weeks at a time alone with their
herds, the boys travel long distances away from their villages for the
animals to graze. This time away from home results in missed opportunity
for education, socialization and adequate nutrition. This is also why
boys enrollment in primary and secondary education lags behind that of
girls. Finally, there are other poor non-orphan non-herd children from
remote mountain and other poverty-stricken areas.
The FPE is to be introduced in a phased fashion so that fees are removed
one standard a year starting from 2000.   Therefore by 2002, students in
Standard 4, 5, 6, and 7 continue to pay fees. The orphans and other
disadvantaged children identified in the above paragraph are leastly
likely to be able to pay for such fees and as a result, they tend to drop
out or not enroll at all. Further, fees at secondary schools tend to be
more inhibitive. On average, secondary schools including government
schools charge 900 Maloti (US$100) per year just for tuition. In
addition, parents have to buy books and uniforms and pay for examination,
food, and transportation.
Uneven ECD Coverage and Quality. As in many African countries, the
pressures of modem life in Lesotho is eroding the traditional system of
child care. Migration and wage employment have weakened the extended
family, previously the main provider of child care. As a result, the
prevalence of private-run day care centers and pre-schools has grown
quickly, particularly in urban and peri-urban areas. By 2002, there were
about 1,700 ECCD centers serving approximately 40,000 children of 3 to 5
years old, reaching a gross enrollment rate of 189-. In Lesotho,
government does not provide for ECD so the existing centers are funded by
communities or private individuals. The quality of these services varies
greatly. Further, since fees are charged in the private centers, ECD
coverage remains particularly low for children from poor households.
In 1985, the MOE began to play an important role in planning, regulating
and monitoring all ECD centers. The MOE established an ECD Unit to improve
the effectiveness and utilization of community-run and private ECD
centers. The MOE started piloting a home-based care approach in 1999 with
financial support from ESDP II. During the Phase I of ESDP II, home-based
ECD care were established on a pilot basis in 4 districts (2 bases per
district) as a low-cost alternative to center care focusing particularly
on poor children whose family could not afford center-based care. The
home-based care heavily rely on volunteer caretakers and parents in the
community. The ECCD unit in the Ministry provided training of the
caretakers and parents, very minimum play equipment and other teaching
learning materials. Total enrollment in the 8 bases reached about 400.
Though formal evaluation is still to be conducted (results expected by
March 2002), initial visits to those bases had found positive impact on
community, parents, and children.
Techinical and Vocational Education. Given Lesotho's unique geographic
situation and limited employment opportunities, the GOL recognizes the
importance of framing its training policies in order to produce workers
with marketable skills that will make them competitive in both the local
- 4 -



and regional markets. The TVET system could play a crucial role in the
economic and social development of Lesotho. Expansion of this sub-sector
is thus a priority of GOL. However, there are several problems with the
current system which must first be addressed, including (a) a
supply-driven approach, which is due to weak linkage to the labor market;
and (b) its need for sustainable financing.
During the ESDP II Phase I, support was given to developing the policies
and institutional framework needed to create a revitalized and
demand-driven TVET system. Efforts had been made to establish (a) a
tripartite management structure made up of representatives of employers,
employees, and the GOL; (b) a qualifications framework and an enhanced
accreditation system; and (c) a financial management and performance
monitoring system. The reforms in these three areas were to be
encapsulated in a revised TVET Act. The Phase I also supported a skills
needs assessment for the national economy and for 3 selected industries.
Unfortunately, much of the APL 1 effort failed and key TVET performance
indicators have not been met. To date, the MOE has yet to incorporate the
new TVET policy document into the law and submit the revised TVET Act to
the parliament. Without the Act, the new TVET Board with tripartite
representation can not be legitimized and new financing mechanism can not
be introduced. At the same time, the consultancy for Skills Needs
Assessment study (for 3 pilot industries and for all sectors) was severely
delayed and the draft report is still being reviewed. The Skills Needs
Assessment was expected to trigger the TVET movement toward a more
demand-driven program. The knowledge of skills demanded by important
economic sectors will enable the process of TVET curriculum review through
the Industrial Advisory Committees which were established.
Several factors contributed to the unsatisfactory performance of the TVET
sector, including the lack of TVET reform champion in the country, lack of
long-term technical assistance, and the focus of MOE's attention solely on
primary and secondary especially since FPE. Further, the design of TVET
component in APL 1 may be too ambitious. It is now widely-recognized that
reforms in TVET are much more complex and can take as long as 10 to 15
years. This is further compounded by the fact that the Basothos have
deep-looted belief in centralized systems. Finally, IDA's dialogue with
the Ministry on TVET had also been compromised because of lack of
technical expertise and financial resources during our supervision.
The recent evidence from the Bank's "Growth and Employment Options Study
for Lesotho" found positive returns to skills development. At the same
time, the Government has identified skills development as an important
strategy for buidling the national economy. Therefore, it is necessary to
continue laying the foundation for TVET reform during the APL 2 by
focusing on the passage of TVET Act and the establishment of new financing
mechanisms for the TVET system in Lesotho.    Support for TVET has to be
coupled with long-term technical assistance to the Ministry
Higher Education. Lesotho's higher education system can be described as
(a) small as there was only about 9000 students enrolled in major national
tertiary institutions in 2002; (b) very costly to the government which
traditionally devotes a third of its total education recurrent budget to
higher education; and (c) training largely for South Africa and the
regional labor market, rather than the local one. The ESDP II APL1 did
- 5-



not invest directly in the higher education subsector. However the ESDP
II APL 1 requires that the Government increases the share of budget
devoted to primary and secondary education, implying that the tertiary
share needed to be reduced.
Recently, the higher education sector in Lestho, particulary the National
University of Lesotho has actively engaged in a reform process. As higher
education seeks to transform itself, a variety of issues will need to be
addressed, including (a) further reducing the tertiary level budget share;
(b) addressing the data needs for system management: (c) defining a policy
framework for higher education and creating an effective Council for
Higher Education; (d) exploring new sources of revenue; (e) finding the
right mix in distance education; (f) upgrading ICT; and (g) staff Training
for transformation. To the extent that further research might be useful
it would lay the basis for conclusions specifying what needs to be
transformed and why, what benchmarks will permit assessment of progress
and what cost calculations will permit measurement of resources "saved".
Tracer studies of where the graduates of higher education go and what they
do are lacking and would also be useful.
Non-formal Education. Prior to the introduction of Free Primary
Education, non-formal education was identified as a priority for the
Ministry to achieve its Education for All goals. The beneficiaries of the
non-formal education was very broad, including herd boys not able to
attend formal schoos; youth who previously dropped out of the formal
schools system and are looking for a second chance; and miners who have
returned from South Africa. The introducation of FPE has successfully
brought into the formal school system many of those children who could not
afford schooling before. There is now a need to re-orient the non-formal
education from a predominantely literacy program for children who could
not afford formal schooling to skills development program for adults who
are beyond the age of formal schooling. At the same time, the Ministry of
Education, with support from ESDP II APL 1, was piloting the Learner Post
program in two districts. The survey of the learners enrolled in the
pilots confirmed that the adult learners would like to have more skills
development modules. The Ministry intends to continue the pilot but now
with an emphasis beyond the basic literacy and numeracy.
Education Sector Financing. Compared to other countries, GOL's commitment
to education is very high. Almost a third (28%-) of all GOL recurrent
expenditure now goes to education and training, including the 4%- of
government budget which is allocated for bursaries but administered by the
National Manpower Planning Secretariate (NMPS). However, sub-sectoral
allocation remains a concern. At the time of ESDP II Phase I appraisal in
1999, recurrent education budget allocated to primary and secondary
subsectors combined was only 589- and about 30%- of the budget was devoted
to tertiary education. During the Phase I implementation, it was agreed
that by the end of Phase I total education recurrent budget allocated to
primary and secondary should increase by at least 2 percentage points.
Much effort was also put in developing an education sector Medium Term
Expenditure Framework. With assistance from a consulting firm, the
Ministry of Education reclassified the coding of the education budget so
that overall budget transparency is improved and also successfully
submitted the first MTEF in December 2002. The figures from the MTEF
(2003-2005) indicate that primary and secondary share of the recurrent
- 6 -



budget will reach 63W of total education recurrent budget, a 5 percentage
point increase.
Despite the progress, the subsectoral allocation is still skewed in favor
of tertiary education. The share of the education budget devoted to
tertiary (including the budget allocate to Lesotho College of Education)
was still at more than 28% for 2003/04 according to the MTEF. Unit cost
expense of educating one NUL student is equivalent to educating 116
primary pupils or 34 secondary students, a ratio that is high compared to
neighboring countries. Though there may be a case made for Lesotho to
devote a relatively higher share of the education budget to higher
education due to its small size and the difficulty in achieving
economy-of-scale, the share of 28% is still too high compared to about 20%
in the neighboring countries. Continued effort needs to be devoted to
increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the higher education
sector, thus reducing the share to tertiary subsector. With the
introduction of MTEF, monitoring of recurrent expenditure will become
easier than before. According to the draft Letter of Sector Development
Policy submitted by the Government, it is committed to further increasing
the share of education budget to primary and secondary education to 70%.
MOE Institutional Capacity. The public sector capacity in Lesotho is
generally weak. The World Bank had prepared and appraised a Public Sector
Reform and Improvement Project. However, this project has not
materialized due to repeated deferral of negotiations by the Government of
Lesotho. Therefore, capacity building efforts in the education sector
(such as decentralization and MTEF) are moving ahead in the absence of a
government-wide plan for public sector capacity improvement.
Challenges of Decentralization and School Governance. The Ministry began
implementing its decentralization plan by building District Resource
Centers and legalizing School Advisory and Management Committees. However,
the roles and responsibilities of central officers versus district and
other officers are still not clearly delineated. As a result, most
decisions continue to be taken centrally at the headquarter. For the
system to function efficiently, it will be necessary to spell out the
roles and responsibilities of the lower tiers of the management structure.
More than 90 percent of primary and 80 percent of secondary schools are
legally owned by churches. In the past, church secretaries were
responsible for hiring, firing, deploying and disciplining teachers.
However, when church resources for financing recurrent and capital costs
dried up, the GOL became more involved and began providing grants for
teachers' salaries, instructional materials and infrastructure. By the
1990s, the Government of Lesotho was paying for all teacher salaries. The
GOL clearly demonstrated its commitment to improving school governance by
passing the Education Act in 1995. This Act legally underpinned the
agreement between the MOE and the churches to collaborate in the delivery
of education. It also provided for increased participation by parents and
called for all primary and secondary schools to establish School Advisory
and Management Committees. These comprise representatives from the MOE,
churches and parents. The Education Act has facilitated more parental
involvement and has also facilitated commendable progress in resolving the
church/state conflict over the management of schools. However, much work
needs to be done to enforce the Act and to continue training school
- 7 -



committees in their new roles. Additional efforts are required to further
define the appropriate roles for the churches and the state in the
provision of education.
Planning, Policy Development, Monitoring and Evaluation. At the central
level, the Education Planning Unit within MOE is in charge of planning,
monitoring and evaluation. The EPU is headed by a Director of Planning
who answers to both PS Planning and PS Education. The EPU is staffed
mainly with planners who are "cadres" posted to MOE from Central
Planning. The MOE has little control over appointments. The current EPU
has very weak capacity. Several planners in the EPU left after having
benefited from the long-term training supported by ESDP II and the
positions have not been filled. Most importantly, traditionally the
Education Planning Unit has only concerned itself with project
implementation, and had not done any sectoral planning or policy
development. Therefore, the EPU is not organized and the staff is not
trained properly for real planning. Planning and policy development is
usually done by the PS, DPS, an ad hoc committees, or sometimes even
technical assistance.
In 2000, due to the above-mentioned weak capacity in the EPU,
implementation of ESDP II greatly suffered and the project was under
"unsatisfactory" status for more than a year. In an effort to improve the
implementation of ESDP II, the MOE established a temporary Project
Coordination and Support Unit and thus separated the EPU from project
implementation temporarily. Currently, the EPU is struggling to
re-oriente itself. Support from APL 2 ESDP II is critical for the
Ministry to continue the process of developing Education Sector Strategic
Plan and implementing the Medium Term Expenditure Framework, thus
promoting long-term sustainability of the reforms introduced. The support
will be focused mainly on strengthening the EPU's capacity in policy
development, planning, and monitoring and evaluation. Further, the rest
of the MOE senior management and the district education officers will also
need to be continuously trained in order to improve the overall management
efficiency.
Education Management Information System (EMIS). MOE has a long tradition
of collecting school statistics annually. With support from ESDP II Phase
1, MOE revised the annual EMIS forms, adopted the Ed*Assist software for
EMIS, and trained relevant officials in the use of Ed*Assist. However,
several challenges remain. First, challenges remain as to how to
capacitate the districts so that elements of the EMIS data collection can
be delegated to the districts so that feedback can be provided to schools
in a much more timely fashion. Second, due to lack of capacity to analyze
the data, the information is not used for policy making and planning.
Therefore, the recurrent budget is not aligned with sector priorities and
performance. Third, the existing EMIS is also isolated from other
information databases such as those holding examinations and personnel
records. Also ECCD data are not captured. Finally, the EMIS does not
sufficiently capture information on disadvantaged groups and on where or
not bursaries are provided for such children.
2.2 GOL Strategies
The Government's strategy for education development seems to be
- 8 -



two-pronged. While clearly identifying primary and secondary education as
its prority, the Government is also emphasizing the sectoral approach to
education development and call for capacity building and strategic
investment in early childhood, technical and vocational, higher education,
and non-formal education.
The most important Government strategy to improve access to primary
education is the Free Primary Education introduced in 1999. Through FPE,
the Ministry of Education is providing a package of teaching learning
materials, core textbooks, school feeding, and school maintenance (so far
MOE has not been able to pay 5 Maloti per student for school
maintenance). The FPE will continue to be implemented and by 2006 all
primary standards should be covered. Beyond that, the MOE is
contemplating to include the lower secondary (Form A, Form B, and Form C)
so that they will also be provided free to the students. However, this is
not yet envisaged to happen very soon due to tight fiscal conditions of
the country. At the interim period, the MOE will institute a secondary
school fee policy so that fees charged by all secondary schools will be
subject to MOE regulations.
The MOE developed a 10-year Education Sector Development Strategy. As
mentioned earlier, additional work especially in priorization and costing
will be needed to bring the draft to a final format, after which the MOE
will develop annual operational plan linked with the Medium Term
Expenditure Framework to guide the Ministry's day-to-day work. Despite
its weaknesses, the draft Education Sector Strategy identifies the
following major strategies for improving the access, equity, and quality
of the primary and secondary education sector and capacity building in
other sectors:
Increase Access and Equity
(a) Classroom Construction: Continue the construction to reach PCR of
40:1 in primary and 30:1 in secondary. Priorities will be given to
inaccessible remote areas. The Ministry also altered the standard design
of primary classroom to allow only 3-5 room schools in those areas.
(b) Scholarships. The Ministry will continue support the implementation
of scholarships for orphans and other disadvantaged children in upper
primary standards which do not yet benefit from the FPE and all secondary
grades.
Improve Quality
(a) Provision of essential teaching and learning materials. The Ministry
will continue its effort in replenishing primary core textbooks and
procuring additional textbooks required to cater for new primary
enrollment so as to maintain the book:pupil ratio of 5:1. Further, the
Ministry will launch a secondary core textbook revolving fund so that cost
to students on books will be substantially reduced.
(b) Distance Teacher Education Program: Continue upgrading teacher's
qualifications to at least diploma level and to reach primary PTR 40:1 and
secondary PTR 30:1
(c) School support through decentralized inspection and advisory services.
Based on a consultancy financed by IDA's ESDP II Phase 1, the MOE is in
the process of reforming the organization and functions of primary and
secondary inspection and advisory services so that schools will be
regularly inspected and implementation of inspection results will be
monitored more closely. Further primary and secondary schools will be
-9-



supported by a renewed advisory services which will be closely linked to
the inspection.
(d) Improved curriculum and assessment framework. The MOE will continue
to develop an Integrated Curriculum and Assessment Framework for primary
and secondary education. Further, MOE intends to localize the Cambridge
Advanced School Certificate to reduce the cost and to continue the
implementation of a National Assessment.
Build Capacity in ECCD, TVET, Higher Education, and Non-formal Education
(a) In ECCD, the Ministry will continue expanding ECD coverage through
promoting community-based programs while strengthening MOE's role in
planning, regulation and monitoring of all ECCD providers especially in
enforcing the standards of health and safety.
(b) In Technical and Vocational Education and Higher Education, the
Government will continue policy and capacity building to lay the
foundations for further expansion and improvement for the subsectors.
(c) in Non-formal Education, the Ministry would like to continue the
support for Learner Post pilots while broadening the focus of the pilots
to include more skills training modules.
MOE Institutional Strengthening
(a) School management. School-level management including
principals/deputies, Primary Advisory and Management Committees, and
Secondary School Boards will continue to be strengthened, as part of the
Ministry's effort to implement the 1995 Education Act and Local Government
Act and bring more voices into the management of schools, thereby
providing a means of collaboration between the state and the churches in
the delivery of education and enhancing community ownership in the
provision of education.
(b) District Education Management. The MOE emphasizes training of the
district education officers in decentralized district-based education
management and equipping the District Resource Centers to enable more
functions to be carried out at the district level.
(c) Ministry of Education. At the central level, the MOE will emphasize
overall capacity building in policy development, planning, monitoring and
evaluation and using MTEF to aligh Sector Financing with priorities. The
Government has committed itself to ensuring that 70% of the education
sector budget (including the NMPS) is devoted to primary and secondary
education by 2007. The Ministry will also develop a comprehensive
HIV/AIDS policy for education.
2. Objectives
The Development Objective of the proposed APL 2 is to further improve the
access, equity, and quality of primary and secondary education, continue
building capacity in early childhood, technical and vocational, and higher
education, and strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministry of
Education.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has consistently supported the GOL in its education efforts
since the early 1980s. It is now the major external financier of education
in Lesotho. The proposed project incorporates many lessons learned from
the experience over the years including that from the implementation of
ESDP II APL 1, as outlined above. The value added of World Bank support is
in assisting the GOL to clarify its ideas and focus on priority areas, and
in providing global comparisons and experiences in other countries.
- 10 -



In particular, as a result of GOL and World Bank discussions, the project
will now focus on several areas previously not dealt with sufficiently:
(a) prioritizing primary classroom construction in inaccessible areas; (b)
developing a new distance education program for teacher training, drawing
on lessons learned from the World Bank Africa Region study: Enhancing
Learning Opportunities in Africa: Distance Education and Information and
Communications; (c) emphasizing decentralization of school management by
establishing and training school committees; (d) institutionalizing a
bursary scheme for orphans and other disadvantaged children; (e)
investigating means of increasing cost-efficiency at NUL; and (f)
regularly undertaking PER in education and subsequently making budget
allocations based on annual MTEF.
4. Description
The proposed ESDP II APL 2 will be implemented during the 4-year period of
2003 to 2007 and will have the following four components:
1. Improving Access and Equity of Primary and Secondary Education
2. Improving Quality of Primary and Secondary Education
3. Promoting Lifelong Learning through building capacity in ECCD, TVET,
Higher Education, and Non-Formal Education
4. Strengthening MOE Institutional Capacity
The detailed policy and investment elements of the proposed APL 2 Project
for the period July 2003 to December 2007 are:
270 primary classrooms with associated administrative block, kitchen, and
latrines are built, 70 of which will be located in remote areas
80 classrooms will be added to the existing 20 secondary schools which are
identified for being overcrowded (4 classrooms for each secondary school)
20,000 scholarships awarded to orphans and other disadvantaged children
annually
Additional core primary textbooks provided to cater for the new enrollment
and replenishment and secondary textbook revolving fund established
Distance Teacher Education Program continue to be supported so that it
produces at least 250 graduates annually from 2005 onwards
Develop an Integrated Curriculum and Examination Framework, localize the
Cambridge Overseas School Certificate Exam and continue to implement
National Standardized Tests in basic literacy and numeracy
5000 primary teachers and 1000 secondary teachers of Math, English,
Science, and Sesotho provided with refresher course bi-annually
Primary inspectors (45), primary advisors (85), secondary inspectors (20)
and secondary advisors (17) trained
ECCD home-based centers established in all districts (at least 2 bases per
district)
Two Non-formal Education Learner Post pilots continue to be supported
Policy development and capacity building in technical and vocational
education
Policy development and capacity building in higher education
School management ( 400 primary principles and deputies, 100 primary
management committees, 500 secondary principals and deputies, and 30
Secondary Boards) trained in finance and management
District management strengthened and 10 District Resource Centers provided
with equipment and library materials
MOE capacity strengthened in policy development, planning, monitoring and
- 11 -



evaluation and in using MTEF to align sector financing with priorities.
Further, HIV/AIDS policy development will be supported.
Proposed ESDP II APL 2 Costs by Component and Sub-component (a 5th
component is added for project support and coordination)
1. Improving Access and Equity
Classroom construction (US$10.48m)
Targetted equity-based program (US$3.13m)
2. Improving Quality
Teaching and learning materials (US$1.32m)
Inspection and advisory services (US$1.22m)
Distance Teacher Education Program (US$1.38)
Curriculum and assesssment (US$0.88m)
3.Building Capacity in ECCD/TVET/Higher/NFE
ECCD (US$0.34m)
TVET (US$lm)
Higher Education (US$0.22m)
NFE (US$0.14m)
4. MOE Institutional Strengthening
School management (US$0.62m)
District Management (US$1.22m)
MOE Central management (US$2.25m)
5. Project Support and Coordination
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $6.20
IBRD
IDA $21.00
Total Project Cost $31.80
6. Implementation
Under the overall leadership of the Principal Secretary for Education (PS,
MOE), the project will be implemented by the various Programs including
ECCD unit, primary and secondary inspectorates, National Curriculum
Development Center, Examination Counsil of Lesotho, School Supply Unit,
Lesotho College of Education, Education Planning Unit, Education Facility
Unit, Technical and Vocational Department and the Higher Education
Council. It will be coordinated by a Project Coordinator at the project
level and the Director of Planning at the Ministry level.
The MOE Senior Management Committee, chaired by the PS, MOE will have
responsibility for project implementation and will ensure full integration
of the implementation process into the regular operations of the MOE.
Task Force may be established from time to time to provide technical
guidance to specific issues during implementation.
Under the ongoing project, the MOE has built good capacity for civil works
within the Education Facilities Unit (EFU), and this unit will be
maintained. The MOE will hire additional EFU staff to ensure adequate
attention to the needs of classroom construction in the inaccessible
areas, which is expected to take longer than construction in the
accessible areas. Relevant staff may be recruited for the implementation
of primary school construction using community approach in three pilot
sites, which will rely heavily on local labor as means of greater
- 12 -



ownership, possible lower cost and poverty alleviation.
Adequate capacity for procurement of goods now also exist in EFU, though
coordination of all procurement activities including civil works, goods,
and consultancies will need to be strengthened. EFU will appoint a
Procurement Coordinator from its existing staff to ensure better
coordination of all procurement activities including those financed by
other donors. Further, in case the need for additional procurement
capacity should arise, the project will allocates fund for short-term
procurement technical assistance.
4.1 Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
The central project monitoring tools are as follows:
a) Quarterly Financial Monitoring Report which will include a financial
report, a physical
progress report, and a procurement plan.
b) twice-a-year supervision, a mid-term review, and end-of-project
completion reports will provide monitoring information at regular
intervals.
c) Program evaluation and research studies will provide a second source of
monitoring information. These will assess the impact of the scholarship
program, teacher training and training of school-management, inspectors
and advisors, continuous evaluation of the home-based ECCD care, the
utilization of physical facilities and teaching and learning materials
d) National assessment of student learning achievement.
e) The MTEF will serve as a tool for monitoring the budgetary process and
sub-sectoral budget allocation.
f) EMIS will provide annual reports on key performance indicators such as
school enrollment, achievement, repetition and drop-out rates.
g) Special studies will also focus on emerging social issues and improve
the collection of information on disadvantaged groups.
h) Annual audits
7. Sustainability
In order to achieve its development impact, a project should be
implemented in an environment that is politically, socially and
economically conducive. Beyond this, strong human and institutional
capacity need to be in place. As in almost every country, political
instability could present a major external risk to the project.     However,
following the civil unrest in September 1998, the security situation in
Lesotho has stabilized and the different political parties seem to be
working together for the good of the nation. A peaceful election was held
in May 2002.
Lack of financial sustainability presents a potential risk. The GoL
recurrent budget allocated to education has been around 28%, high compared
- 13 -



to other countries. Further increase of education share seems unlikely.
Equitable allocation within the education sector is critical to ensure
adequate funding for priority areas. In particular, the expenditures on
basic education need to be protected and further increased relative to the
tertiary sector. The MOE will use MTEF as a tool to monitor the
intrasectoral allocation and ensure adequate funding for primary and
secondary education.
The MOE may lack sufficient capacity to implement the program. In part due
to the loss of people who go to South Africa for better paying jobs, there
is a high turnover rate in the GOL bureaucracy. This results in vacancies
in key units which often take a long time to fill. In order to fill
crucial gaps in capacity, the MOE often resorts to employing technical
assistance (TA). Sustaining bureaucratic efficiency on the basis of TA
poses a moral hazard and contributes to the lack of staffing continuity in
the MOE. Institutional capacity is especially problematic in the Planning
Unit. The proposed project will be very selective in the use of TA and
emphasize strengthening local capacity.
The high level of HIV/AIDS prevalence rate posts another significant risk
to the education sector. The epidemic will result in loss of a
significant number of teachers, inspectors, advisors, and other MOE
officials. It will also affect the population of school age children.
Further, tt also mean that a healthy Basotho will have to support more
sick people and their orphans. The implication on education is thus
huge. The project will support a study of the impact of HIV/AIDS on
education which will be used to develop a comprehensive HIV/AIDS policy in
education.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The PAD of ESDP II APL 1 detailed the lessons learned from past education
projects which have been incorporated into the design of ESDP II. These
lessons include the importance of MOE participation and ownership,
partnership with other development partners, balancing the investment in
improving educational quality versus in increasing school spaces through
construction, aligning the budge allocation with priority areas through
the MTEF tool, and targeting of orphans and other disadvantaged children.
During the implementation of ESDP II APL 1, the following additional
lessons were learned and are reflected in the design of the proposed APL
2:
Identification of sites for school construction. APL 1 was to expand
primary coverage through building additional classrooms in the existing
schools. When the Government introduced FPE in 1999, it also stated that
the government would now only build and expand on government schools only.
This shift delayed the implementation of APL 1 since new sites had to be
found for construction. An ad hoc Task Force was established and a set of
criteria was developed for identification of primary school construction
sites. Though this procedure had worked relatively well during APL 1, a
more scientific approach for site selection is needed to target on the
most disadvantaged areas and to avoid over-building in certain areas. A
primary and secondary school mapping exercise is being conducted to guide
the selection of sites during APL 2.
- 14 -



Annual budget for scholarship component. The ESDP II APL 1 design
initially did not identify scholarship as a strategy toward achieving
equity in education. The APL 1 allocated a budget for "targeted equity
based program" but detailed activities for the component were not defined.
Towards the middle of ESDP II implementation, the MOE and the Bank
finally agreed to use scholarship as an explicit strategy. The
scholarship program was formally launched by the Minister in 2001. During
the first two years of implementation in 2001 and 2002, it became so
popular yet politicized that the MOE felt pressure to process more and
more applications without consideration for annual planning and
budgeting. Subsequently, APL 1 ended up not being able to pay some of the
scholarships awarded because of short of funds. It was agreed that during
APL 2, annual planning and budgeting will be used as a tool and quotas
will be distributed to the districts based on agreed formula.
Outsourcing of training. ESDP II APL 1 had built in a large number of
training activities including the training of all Primary Advisory and
Management Committees and Secondary School Boards. The burden of training
fell mostly on the inspectors who themselves were already over committed
to other responsibilities. This was the most important reason why some of
the training was delayed. In APL 2, outsoucing of similar training
activities to universities and other training institutions will be
explicitly encouraged. An important side benefit of the outsourcing was
to give incentive to public and private tertiary institutions. In the
context of higher education reform, access to ESDP II training funds will
be very important to the survival of these institutions.
Technical and Vocational Education. The unsatisfactory implementation of
the TVET component during APL 1 has shown that the reforms in TVET are
very complex and the MOE will need not only a champion in the country but
also long-term technical assistance in order to implement the reform
agenda built in the project.   We also learned that the Basothos seem to
have deep-rooted belief in centralized systems and movement toward a
flexible demand-driven system is long and difficult. Further, IDA's
dialogue with the Ministry on TVET had also been compromised because of
lack of technical expertise and financial resources during our
supervision.  The design of the TVET component in the proposed APL 2 will
reflect these lessons by (a) allowing more time in the APL 2 to continue
laying the foundation for reform; (b) providing long term technical
assistance; and (c) separately, IDA will intensify our own dialogue with
the MOE on the TVET sector.
Project Implementation. In the past including the first two years of ESDP
II APL 1, all MOE projects were implemented by relevant Heads of Programs
and coordinated by the Education Planning Unit under the Director of
Planning. The EPU was a synonym for "project or project implementation".
However, there was little understanding of planning and policy
development. Starting from 2000, project implementation also started to
suffer due to loss of staff in EPU. There was a disbursement lag of
almost 20 months. In 2001, as a temporary measure, the then PS Education
requested the Bank support to recruit a Project Coordinator who would help
the PS and Director of Planning focus on the coordination of project
activities. The strategy has proved successful as implementation quickly
improved and disbursement lag was reduced to only 7 months within a year.
The ESDP II APL 2 will initially continue with this temporary arrangement,
- 15 -



while at the same time emphasize strengthening the Planning Unit in policy
development, planning, monitoring and evaluation. As soon as the capacity
of the Planning Unit is sufficiently improved (by independent consultant
assessment), the Ministry of Education will contemploate the incorporation
of the project coordination back into the Planning Unit. An integrated
approach to project implementation will contribute to long-term
sustainability.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Xiaoyan Liang
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 504-866-6398
Fax: 202-473-8299
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 7, 2003.
- 16 -



