Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3813 LSO 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Second Education Sector Development Project (Phase II)) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 27, 2003
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3813 LSO  
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT  
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 27, 2003 between KINGDOM OF LESOTHO (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).  
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated April 5, 2003, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve the 
performance of its education sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment 
to the execution of the Program;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its execution of the 
Program through a series of Credits over a period of twelve years, the proceeds of such 
Credits to be utilized by the Borrower for implementing the Project;  
(C) 
the Borrower and the Association have entered into a development credit 
agreement dated May 21, 1999 under which the Association has lent SDR 15,000,000 in 
support of the first phase of the Program (the First Credit); 
 
(D) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which forms the second phase of the 
Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower in support of the second phase of the Program upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the following modification (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement: 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, 
the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit.” 
 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:  
(a) 
“Bursaries” means cash payments to be made to primary and secondary 
schools to offset the cost of education for disadvantaged children; 
(b) 
“Disadvantaged children” means pupils in primary and secondary education 
who are orphans or who come from destitute households; 
(c) 
“ECCD” means Early Childhood Care and Development; 
(d) 
“ECOL” means the Examinations Council of Lesotho established within 
MOE;  
(e) 
“EMIS” means Education Management Information System; 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each one of the reports 
prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;   
(g) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from 
April 1 through March 31 of the year next following;    
(h) 
“HIV/AIDS” means Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immuno 
Deficiency Syndrome; 
(i) 
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the 
United Nations; 
(j) 
“LCE” means the Lesotho College of Education established and operating 
pursuant to Lesotho College of Education Act No. 2, dated 1998 and operating in accordance 
with the provisions of Legal Notice No. 141 of 2002;  
Page  4
-
3
-
(k) 
“Maloti” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(l) 
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education; 
(m) 
“MTEF” means Medium Term Expenditure Framework; 
(n) 
“NCDC” means the National Curriculum Development Center established 
within MOE; 
(o) 
“NFE” means Non-Formal Education; 
(p) 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the Project 
Implementation Manual adopted by the Borrower and containing, 
inter alia
,
guidelines, 
timetables, procedures and other arrangements for the purpose of implementing the Project; 
such term includes any schedules and amendments to the PIM as the same may be amended 
from time to time, in consultation with, and with the consent of the Association; 
(q) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
(r) 
“SSU” means the School Supply Unit established within MOE; 
(s) 
“TRF” means the Textbook Revolving Fund referred to in Part B 3 (a) of the 
Project; and 
(t) 
“TVET” means Technical and Vocational Education and Training. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit  
 
Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 15,300,000). 
 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
Page  5
-
4
-
works, goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04.  (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by 
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set 
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.  
 
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.  
 
Section 2.06.  Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on October 1 and April 1 in each year.  
 
Section 2.07.  (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
October 1 and April 1, commencing October 1, 2013 and ending April 1, 2043. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2023 shall be one percent 
Page  6
-
5
-
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount. 
 (b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: (A)  requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B)  requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as 
of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or 
more after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed 
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.  
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms 
of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.  
 
Section 2.08.  The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE III  
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, and pedagogical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.  
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
open an account in Maloti in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association, (the Project Account) and thereafter maintain said Project Account under terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Association until the completion of the Project; 
 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount equivalent to 
$750,000; and (ii) thereafter, on a quarterly basis, replenish the Project Account by the 
amounts required to finance the Borrower’s contribution for expenditures under the Project 
other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit, as shall be agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association; and  
 
(c) 
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures under the 
Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit.  
 
Section 3.03.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04.  For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and  
 
(b) 
afford to the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.  
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall:  
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and  
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof and concerning said 
auditors as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:  
 
(i) 
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;  
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;  
Page  9
-
8
-
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and  
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish 
to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; 
and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified namely that a situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VI 
Termination 
 
Section 6.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII  
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01.  The Minister responsible for Finance is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning 
 
P.O. Box 395 
 
Maseru, 100 
 
Lesotho 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
     Facsimile: 
 
FINMIN      266 
22 
310 
157 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
 
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Page  11
-
10
 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO 
 
By  
/s/  Molelekeng Rapolaki 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
/s/  Fayez Omar 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
11
 -
SCHEDULE 1  
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
 
   % of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Civil 
works 
  5,600,00   90% 
 
 
(2) 
Goods 
   2,300,000 
  100% 
of 
foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
90%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
services 
 1,100,000 
  90% 
 
(4) 
Training, 
workshops 
 2,900,000 
  100% 
 
and study tours 
 
(5) 
Bursaries   1,000,000 
  50% 
 
(6) 
Incremental 
operating 
 1,000,000 
  100% 
of 
foreign 
 
 costs 
       expenditures 
and 
 
 
90%
of local  
 
expenditures 
(7) Unallocated  
 
1,400,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 
            15,300,000 
 
======== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than the Borrower; 
Page  13
-
12
 -
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring including office 
consumables (such as communication expenses), tickets and subsistence costs for travel 
related to the Project, salaries for contractual staff, office rental, office supplies and 
maintenance, and fuel and maintenance for vehicles and equipment, but excluding salaries of 
the Borrower’s civil servants.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures made for: (a) civil works and goods 
not exceeding $750,000 and $200,000 equivalent, respectively; (b) for consulting firms 
under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent and for individual consultants’ services 
under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
13
 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in its efforts to reduce 
poverty through improving the performance and efficiency of its education sector, 
inter alia
,
by: (i) improving equitable access to and quality of, primary and secondary education; (ii) 
promoting lifelong learning through capacity building in early childhood, technical and 
vocational education, higher education and non-formal education; and (iii) strengthening its 
institutional capacity to deliver quality services in the education sector.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
Part A
:
Primary Education
1. 
Improvement and expansion of primary school facilities through construction, 
furnishing and equipping of about 250 classrooms for primary education. 
2. 
Facilitating access to primary education for disadvantaged children through payment 
of bursaries. 
3. 
(a) Finalizing the Borrower’s methodology for developing, producing, and 
distributing textbooks with a view to increasing competition to achieve efficient procurement 
of required textbooks; and (b) acquisition of selected textbooks and distribution of the same 
to primary schools throughout the Borrower’s territory. 
4. 
Development and delivery of: (a) refresher courses for primary school teachers, in 
selected subjects including mathematics, English and science; (b) upgrading training for 
primary school inspectors and advisors; and (c) upgrading training for school management 
authorities including primary school principals, deputy-principals and members of primary 
school management committees. 
5. 
Design and implementation of a Distance Teacher Education Program aimed at: 
(a) enhancing the provision of in-service training for teachers; and (b) provision of training 
under the said program to at least 250 teachers in each year. 
6. 
Enhancement of cooperation between NCDC and ECOL and strengthening of 
capacity to administer national examinations and certification efficiently within the 
Borrower’s territory. 
Page  15
-
14
 -
Part B
:
Secondary Education
1. 
Construction, furnishing and equipping of secondary schools in the Thaba-Tseka, 
Mokhotlong, and Berea Districts. 
2. 
Facilitating access to secondary education for disadvantaged children through 
payment of bursaries. 
3. 
(a) Strengthening of SSU’s accounting and financial management systems designed 
to foster accountability and transparency in the operations of the TRF; (b) finalizing the 
Borrower’s methodology for developing, producing, and distributing textbooks with a view 
to increasing competition to achieve efficient procurement of required textbooks; and (c) 
acquisition of selected textbooks and distribution of the same to all secondary schools within 
the Borrower’s territory. 
4. 
Development and delivery of: (a) refresher courses for secondary school teachers in 
selected subjects including mathematics, English and science; b) upgrading training for 
secondary school inspectors and advisors; and (c) upgrading training for secondary school 
management authorities including secondary school principals, deputy-principals and 
members of secondary school boards. 
Part C
:
Capacity Building in ECCD, TVET, NFE and Higher Education for 
Lifelong Learning
1. 
Formulation and carrying out of a community-based ECCD scheme aimed at 
providing early childhood development services in the most cost-effective manner in 6 un-
served districts within the Borrower’s territory.  
2. 
Development and implementation of an in-service training program in ECCD at 
LCE.  
3. 
(a) Formulation of policies and adoption of a legal and regulatory framework 
designed to improve the delivery of adequate TVET services in the Borrower’s territory; (b) 
enhancing technical expertise among TVET Board members and MOE’s staff responsible 
for managing TVET programs through the provision of technical advisory services; (c) 
construction of housing facilities for students at the Thaba-Tseka TVET institute; and (d) 
design of a pilot financial scheme aimed at encouraging adoption of innovative methods for 
delivery of demand-driven TVET services through the provision of technical advisory 
services and carrying out of the said scheme within the Borrower’s territory. 
Page  16
-
15
 -
4. 
(a) 
Formulation of pilot programs aimed at improving delivery of appropriate 
NFE services within the Borrower’s territories; and (b) carrying out of said programs in 
selected districts of the Borrower. 
5. 
Formulation and carrying out of a policy aimed at improving delivery and 
productivity of higher education in the Borrower’s territory. 
Part D
:
Strengthening of MOE’s Institutional Capacity
1. 
Strengthening of MOE’s managerial capacity (including capacity to formulate 
policies and to plan and monitor their implementation) through provision of technical 
advisory services;  
2. 
(a) Assessment of training needs for MOE staff; (b) formulation of a training 
program aimed at enhancing technical expertise for MOE staff; and (c) carrying out of the 
training program referred to in paragraph (b) above.   
3. 
Acquisition of equipment, vehicles, and materials required for the carrying out of 
Project activities at the district level. 
4. 
Formulation of policies and activities aimed at combating HIV/AIDS and 
implementation of the same in the Borrower’s education sector. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  17
-
16
 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999, (the Guidelines), and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.  
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.  
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.  
 (a) 
Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to 
cost $100,000 equivalent or more each for goods and $500,000 equivalent or more each for 
works. 
 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors  
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be 
carried out by domestic contractors. 
 
Page  18
-
17
 -
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
School furniture, science laboratory kits, and printing of manuals, estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
 
(b) 
Works estimated to cost less than $750,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines.  
2. National 
Shopping
Photocopiers, computers and office equipment, estimated to cost less than $30,000 
equivalent, per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  
3. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $300,000 which are not available locally, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Computers, office equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.  
5. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an amount 
not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The 
Page  19
-
18
 -
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.  
6. Community 
Participation
Works for school construction estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000 may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and 
modalities and procedures acceptable to the Association. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 
or more and each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $750,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines) paragraph 1 of 
Page  20
-
19
 -
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.  
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants.  
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of consultant’s qualifications in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
2. 
Selection Based on Least Cost
Services for audits and services estimated to cost less than $75,000 up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.  
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks meeting the requirements of Section V of the consultant 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  21
-
20
 -
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
1, 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association 
for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given.  
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  22
-
21
 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
 
1. 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the PIM and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of said PIM if, in the 
opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect 
the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators set 
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project. 
3. 
(a) 
By October 31 of each year, commencing on October 31, 2004 or such later 
date as the Association may agree, until the completion of the Project, the Borrower and the 
Association shall carry out an annual review of the Project (hereinafter called the Annual 
Review); such Annual Review shall cover the progress achieved in the execution of the 
Project and, 
inter alia
,
review the information furnished in accordance with paragraph 2 of 
this Schedule, and work programs to be carried out under the Project during the following 
FY. 
 
(b) 
Following such Annual Review the Borrower shall carry out said work 
programs in accordance with modalities and procedures approved by the Association and in 
accordance with the PIM, and shall not make any material change to the approved programs 
without the prior approval of the Association.  
4. 
(a) 
Not later than September 30, 2005, or such other date as the Borrower and 
the Association shall agree upon, the Borrower and the Association shall carry out a mid-
term review (the Midterm Review); such Midterm Review shall cover the progress achieved 
in the implementation of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Not later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association for its review and comments, a report, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the implementation of the Project. 
 
(c) 
Following such Midterm Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the Association to 
remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project and the Program, as the 
case may be, or to implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
Page  23
-
22
 -
5. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
Not later than November 30 of each year, submit to the Association for its 
review and comments a draft MTEF report;  
(b) 
take into account the comments and recommendations made by the 
Association with a view to adjusting budgetary allocations for the education sector to levels 
acceptable to the Association as required to achieve the performance indicators referred to in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
(i) formulate the policies referred to under Parts C.3 (a) and C.5 of the 
Project; and (ii) formulate the pilot program referred to under Part C.4 (a) of the Project; all 
by not later than June 30, 2005; 
 
(d) 
submit all policy instruments referred to in paragraph (c) above to the 
Association by July 31, 2005 for its review and comments; 
 
(e) 
finalize the said policy instruments or pilot programs by duly taking into 
account all comments made thereon by the Association; and 
 
(f) 
implement the same in accordance with modalities and timetables agreed 
upon with the Association. 
 
Page  24
-
23
 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:  
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (6) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and  
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR3,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  25
-
24
 -
(ii) 
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the eligible Categories, 
and in the equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.  
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account;  
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from 
the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
Page  26
-
25
 -
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be.  
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund 
to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  27
-
26
 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators  
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (i) 
the 
te
rm “ECCD coverage rate” means the total number of children 
registered in ECCD centers countrywide plus the total number of children in home-based 
ECCD in pilot districts divided by population of age 3 to 5. 
 
(ii) 
the term “primary completion rate” means the total number of students 
completing the final year of primary education (in this case, the number of students taking 
the Borrower’s primary school leaving examination), regardless of age, expressed as a 
percentage of the population of primary school graduation age in the Borrower’s territory. 
 
(iii) 
the term “primary net enrollment ratio” means the enrollment of primary 
education students of official primary school age in the Borrower’s territory, expressed as a 
percentage of the population of the same age group.   
 
(iv) 
the term “lower secondary education coverage” means the total enrollment 
in Form A, B, and C, regardless of age, expressed as a percentage of the official school-age 
in the Borrower’s territory in a given school year.   
2. 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the performance 
indicators set forth below: 
(i) 
by December 31, 2007 the ECCD coverage rate shall have increased from 
31% to 40%; 
 
(ii) 
by December 31, 2007, the primary completion rate shall have increased 
from 77% to 83%; 
(iii) 
by December 31, 2007 the primary net enrollment ratio shall have increased 
from 85% to 90%; 
 
(iv) 
by December 31, 2007 the lower secondary education coverage rate shall 
have increased from 43% to 50%; 
 
(v) 
performance of national achievement test for primary education shall have 
improved as follows: 
Page  28
-
27
 -
-Standard 3 Mathematics mean score improved from 44% to 50% in 2007 
 
-Standard 3 English mean score improved from 31% to 36% in 2007 
 
-Standard 3 Sesotho mean score improved from 71% to 75% in 2007 
 
-Standard 6 Mathematics mean score improved from 49% to 55% in 2007 
 
-Standard 6 English mean score improved from 45% to 50% in 2007 
 
-Standard 6 Sesotho mean score improved from 58% to 65% in 2007 
 
(vi) 
by December 31, 2007, the share of recurrent expenditures allocated for 
primary and secondary education services in accordance with the forecasts made through the 
MTEF shall have increased from 58% to at least 65%; and 
(vii) 
by December 31, 2007, an adequate legal and regulatory framework 
conducive to delivery of demand-driven TVET services shall have been established. 
 
