                                      E2437




    THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO 

 EDUCATION FOR ALL FAST TRACK 

INITIATIVE CATALYTIC FUND GRANT 

          FOR LESOTHO 


 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT 

          FRAMEWORK (ESMF) 



          (Final Report 09/10/2009)
This report is the result of the original Environmental and Social
Management Framework for the IDA Credit Second Education
Sector Development Project II, APL Phase II (P081269), with
an addendum of 08/08/2009.
"0
 Cl>
 N
.;;::
        THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO             ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAl. MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
 o
.r::.
+-'
 :::I
<C                 SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2
....
Cl>
:::I
 ~


                                                                           E738
U
tJ)

is
.2
:0
:::I
a..




                         THE KINGDOM Of LESOTHO 


          SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT 

                       PRO,JECT II 


                                           (ESDP II) 


                                       APL PHASE II 


          ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT 

                   fRAMEWORK (ESMf) 

                                      (FINAL REPORT 0411012003)




                                       JAMES OREHMIE MONDAY




                                                                      FILE COpy 

THE GOVERNMENT OF L,I:$OTHO              ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EQUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2 





                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                  Page No. 


List of Acronyms                                                                    3



1.0    Executive SLlmmary                                                          4



2.0    Introduction                                                                 7



3.0    Description Qf the Proposed Project                                          10 



4.0    Description pf the area of influence                                         13 



5.0    Description of the policy, legal, regulatory, and administrative frameworks 15 



6.0    Description of the World Bank's Safeguards Policies                          19 



7.0    Proposed institutional framework for environmental and                       22 

       Social management 


8.0    Proposed screening mechanism and checklist of risks and                      25 

       Mitigation measures 


9.0    Proposed    ~pacity   building measures and costs estimates                  30 



10.0   Monitoring inqicators and plan, including costs                              34 


Annex 1.0     Sample Screening Form                                                38 

Annex 2.0     Environmental and Social Checklist                                    43 


Annex 3.0     .Draft TOR for ESIA for MoE Head Office Building                     45 


Annex 4.0     List of individuals/institutions contacted                           46 


Annex 5.0     Summary of World Bank Safeguard Policies                             47 


Annex 6.0     EA Procedures for the MoE Head Office Building                       50 


Annex 7.0     Environmental Mitigation Plan Summary Table                          51 




                                              2
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO             ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


           SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) NIL PHASE 2


List of Acronyms

DA           District Administrator
EA           Environmental Assessment
ECCD         Early Childhood Care and Development
EFU          Education Facilities Unit
EM IS        Education Management Information System
EMP          Environment Management Plan
ESMF         Environment and Social Management Framework
ESIA         Environment and Social Impact Assessment
ESSF         Environment and Social Screening Form
FPE          Free Primary Education
Gol          Government of lesotho
lEA          lesotho Environment Authority
MoE          Ministry of Education
MTEF         Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NES          National Environment Secretariat
NFE          Non Formal Education
OP           Operational Policy ( World Bank)
PSCU         Projects Support and Coordination Unit
RPF,         Resettlement Policy Framework
SC           Steering Committee
TTl          Thaba-Tseka Training Institute
TVET         Technical and Vocational Education Training




                                          3
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO               ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP    III APL PHASE 2

1.0    EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The Kingdom of Lesotho is a small mountainous developing country completely
surrounded by SOl,lth Africa with a population of about 2 million people. With scarce
resources, attributable to the harsh environment on the highland plateau and limited
agricultural space in the lowlands for sustainable agricultural activities such as
subSistence and pastoral farming, lesotho (despite being landlocked) has abundant
highland fresh water resources and the skills of its resourceful people, the Basotho.

Through the Highland Water Project, lesotho is successfully harnessing its fresh water
resources for export to South Africa. Similarly, the Government of lesotho (Gol) has
manifested its commitment to the education of its people by ( a) devoting a relatively
high share of government budget to education, (b) embracing the Education for All and
Millennium Development Goals, (c) identifying education as one of the key strategies for
alleviating poverty in its interim. Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), and (d)
adopting a Free Primary Education (FPE) Policy in 1999.

In line with this strategy, the Gol requested the World Bank for support and the 12 year
Education Sector Development Program (II) was designed in 1999 (prior to FPE) as a 12
year Adaptable Program loan (APl) to support the education sector. The goal of the 12
year program is to' assist the Gol in achieving its goal of producing more and better
educated Basotho and enabling them to participate in local and regional labor markets.

The ESOP" is to be implemented in three phases: APl1 (1999-2002), APl2 (2003 
2006) and APL 3 (2007 - 2011). The development objective of the proposed ESOP II,
APl 2, is to further increase the access, equity, and the quality of primary and secondary
education and continued strengthening of the' institutional capacity of the Ministry of
Education.

The proposed ESOP II, APL 2 is structured to achieve its objectives within nine major
investment components of the project. Specifically, Component 1, Improve Coverage
through Construction of Classrooms, will finance the construction of new primary
schools and the expansion of facilities of existing secondary schools, and possibly a
new 100 bed hostel facility at Thaba Tseka Training Institute (TIl). Component 9, may
finance the Construction of a new Head Office for the Ministry of Education.

The identification of sites for primary school construction will be based on the needs of
local communities as expressed by them and/or the findings from a soon to be
commissioned schpQI mapping exercise. The location of the MoE head office and a
facility for TIl will be made during the implementation of the project.

The Gol by the National Environment Act 2001 and the World Banks own Operational
and Procedural Policies, specifically OP 4.01 requires the government to prepare a
Environment and Social Management Framework, ESMF report, which will establish a
mechanism to determine and assess future potential environmental and sodal impacts
of project investments under components 1 and 9 of the proposed ESDP II APL 2, and
then to set out mitigation. monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during
design, implementation and operation of the subprOjects to eliminate adverse
environmental and social impacts, offset them , or reduce them to acceptable levels.



                                            4
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


             SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


This is precisely what is required at this stage of project preparatioh since the location of
the schools and facilities have not yet been identified.

OP 4.01 further requires that the ESMF report must be disclosed as a separate and
stand alone by the Government of lesotho and the World Bank as a condition for Bank
Appraisal of the APL 2. The disclosure should be both in Lesotho where it can be
accessed by the general public and local communities and at the Infoshop of the World
Bank and the date for disclosure must precede the date for appraisal of the project.

The key highlights in this ESMF report are as follows;

   (i)      For the Construction of Schools and for the new 100 bed Hostel facility at
            TTl, the ESMF establishes the screening process mechanism for the
            implementation of the project activities to enable the local communities and
            the Education Facilities Unit (EFU) to simultaneously identify adverse
            potential environmental and social impacts of their project activities and to
            address them by incorporating the relevant mitigation measures into the
            designs before they submit them for review and subsequent approval.

            The main feature of this mechanism requires the project implementers to
            screen their projects at the preparation stage using the screening form in
            Annex 1 and the environmental and social checklist in Annex 2 to identify
            potential adverse effects/impacts.

            The next requirement is for the implementers to incOrporate the necessary
            mitigation measures into the project design following whiCh they are to submit
            the project proposals accompanied by the completed screening form and
            checklist to the reviewing body, which is the EFU for approval.


   (ii)     For the Construction of the new Head Office Building ; which is expected to
            be a modern urban designed building, estimated to cost a few million US
            dollars, the use of the screening form and checklist would not be appropriate
            to identify impacts and to mitigate them. The ESMF therefore requires that an
            individual and separate Environmental and Social Impact Assessment be
            prepared by the firm of architects and engineers who would be chosen to
            design the building. as they design the building. This would ensure that
            adverse impacts are identified during the planning stages and successfully
            mitigated before the final design is concluded, thereby ensuring that the final
            design is environmentally sustainable and sound.

   (iii)    The ESMF identified and assessed to the extent possible. potential
            environmental and social impacts and appropriate mitigation measures and
            presented this in the form of a generic checklist contained in Annex 2.

   (iv)     The ESMF also developed an environmental and social screening form that
            would assist in determining potential adverse environmental and social
            impacts during project implementation pertaining to the project activities. This
            form is contained in Annex 1.



                                             5
THE GOVERNMENT OF LeSOTHO                ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EQUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2


   (V)      The cap~city to manage the ESMF of the PSCU was assessed. It was found
            that the PSCU had suitable staffing levels and positions. but required further
            strengthening through training. A training program and budget was developed
            and is cqntained in the body of the ESMF. The Steering Committees, which
            are to be elected bodies that wquld represent the local communities and help
            them to meet their responsibilities in the EA process as outlined in this ESMF
            would benefit from technical assistance and training. The National
            Environment Secretariat will also benefit from technical assistance to facilitate
            their monitoring and supervision of training role.

   (vi)     Finally thl;l ESMF contains an extensive and comprehensive environmental
            and social monitoring plan to ensure that environmental and social issues will
            be manaQed effectively.

   (vii)    Meaningful consultations with local communities were held during the in
            country study part of the preparation  during which they were sensitized on
            the requirements of the RPF and ESMF.

This Environment and Social Management Framework Report presents definitive,
conclusive and clear procedures consistent with the Laws in Lesotho and the
World Bank Safeguard Policies.




                                              6
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO               ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


             SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II, APL PHASE 2


2.0    INTRODUCTION

The Government Of lesotho has asked the World Bank for continued support for the
Second Education Sector Development Project APl 2 part of whiCh is to finance the
construction of new primary schools and the expansion of existing secondary schools,
inter alia.

However, since the exact locations for these new schools were not Identified at the time
the APl 2 was being prepared, the laws of lesotho and Operational Policy 4.01 of the
Bank requires the Government of lesotho (Gal) to prepare an Environment and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) which is to establish a mechanism to determine and
assess future potential environmental and social impacts of all project activities to be
financed under APl 2, and then to set out mitigation , monitOring and institutional
measures to be taken during implementation and operation of the project activities to
eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them. or reduce them to
acceptable levels.

The Gal is further required to disclose this document in-country as a separate and stand
alone document so that it is accessible by the general public, local communities,
potential project-affected groups, local NGO's and all other stakeholders and also at the
Infoshop of the World Bank and the date for disclosure must precede the date for
appraisal of the project.

Since the location of the schools which are to be decided using the results of a school
mapping exercise and requests from local communities, has not yet been deCided, each
location that is subsequently identified and approved by the MoE would be subjected to
environmental and social planning prior to approval. Other project activities under the
ESDP 2 which may not be financed by the World Bank are also subject to the provisions
of OP 4.01 and hence this ESMF. In those cases, it is required that the Construction of
the Head Office for the MoE be subject to its own environmental and social impact
assessment and the construction of the 100 bed Hostel facility at Thaba Tseka Training
Institute (TTl) be subjected to environmental and social planning prior to approval.

This environmental and social planning for the construction of schools and the hostel at
TTl and ESIA for the MoE Head office would be the instruments through which the
project activities environmental and social impacts are identified and assessed and
would also evaluate alternatives and would design appropriate mitigation. management
and monitoring measures.

Scope of Work

The scope of work is to :

       (a)     Prepare an Environment and Social Management Ffamework (ESMF)
       (b)     Prepare a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)

The ESMF is to present a framework for screening. monitoring and mitigating potential
impacts, with a process for triggering subsequent sub project environment and social
assessments. where necessary.



                                            7
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO              ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


           SECOND EIilUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP U) APL PHASE 2


The RPF is required to be a separate document, prepared following the appropriate laws
in lesotho and the World Bank Operational Policy 4.12. and is also required to be
disclosed before appraisal of this project. The RPF establishes the resettlement and
compensation principles. organizational arrangements and design criteria to be applied
to meet the needs of the people who may be affected by the project activities requiring
land acquisition and lor denial. restriction or loss of access to economic resources.

Study Approach ..,nd Methodology

The study was conducted by the consultant using the following approach and
methodology:

          Review pf the ESOP literature including the Project Appraisal Document
          (PAD). thj9 approved Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS), Mission Aide
          Memoir's, Request for Proposals for School Mapping Exercise and Design of
          MoE Head Office. The Constitution of lesotho 1993, The National
          Environ~nt Act 2001, The land Act 1979, The local Government Act 1996.
          The Education Act 1995, World Bank Safeguards Policies and other relevant
          documents.

          An eleven days study tour in lesotho during which discussions were held
          with the Management of the Projects Support Coordination Unit (PSCU) and
          officials of the Education Facilities Unit and National Environment Secretariat.
          The commltant also attended briefing meetings with potential service
          provider~ held by the PSCU for the School Mapping EXercise and the Design
          of the Mol; Head office and visited the potential sites for the construction of
          the MoE Head office. Field visits were also conducted in Thaba Tseka and
          Maseru Districts. At Thaba Tseka District, the consultant visited the Thaba
          Tseka Training Institute where a meeting was held with the acting Director of
          the Institute and was shown around the two potential sites for the
          construction of the 100 bed Hostel facility and toured the existing hostel on
          campus, In Thaba Tseka District, specifically in Mohlakeng Village , the
          consultant participated in a sensitization meeting held with local communities
          and organized by the Supervisor of Government Schools, who was on a
          country wide tour sensitizing communities on the education for all policy
          adopted by the Gol. During this sensitization meeting. the consultant met
          with around 100 participants from the local communities and briefed them on
          the ESOP 2 APL 2 and on their responsibilities and roles under the project in
          general but more so on the ESMF and RPF. The community response was
          very positive and they seemed keen to play their role. The meeting was held
          on the Mphlakeng Primary School grounds, which contained only two tents
          that served as shelter from the elements. The consultant held many such
          meeting~ throughout potential school sites in the Thaba Tseka and Maseru
          Districts such as at Masite Ha tlhakanelo, Maseqobela  Senyotong, Mosetoa
          and Tsew. During these visits the consultant met with the chief, school
          teachers and student~. These sites were potential school sites for APl 2 but
          were at present operating a school under tents. The consultant also visited
          and held meetings at the Mosotho Primary School a school that was
          financed during APL 1.



                                           8
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO             ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


           SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


          The communities were very eager for the project to start and their willingness
          and determination to operate schools in remote locations such as these in
          the highlands , just simply under a tent with both students and teachers
          trekking everyday over difficult terrain to get there was a true testimony of
          their participatory involvement and was inspiring.             .

          These discussions and consultations with the local communities proved
          invaluable in designing and coming up with appropriate solutions and
          recommendations that the communities could claim ownership of and thus
          ensure the sustainability of the project as a whole. the discussions and
          consultations were the backbone of the work done by the consultant.

          Report writing.




                                          9
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


              SECOND EPUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


3.0        DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT

The Education Sector Development Program (ESDP) II was designed in 1999 ( prior to
FPE) as a 12 year Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to support the education sector. The
goal of the 12-year program is to assist the Government of lesotho (Gol) in achieving
its goal of producing more and better educated Basotho and enabling them to participate
in local and regional labor markets. The 1999 ESDP II PAD for APL 1 stated that the
program was to produce" more Basotho better educated, and actively employed both
regionally and locally and participating in community leadership roles".

The ESDP II is to be implemented in three phases: APL 1 (19992002), APL 2 (2003
2007) and APL 3 (2007 - 2011). APL 1 supported mostly primary and secondary
education, extensive analysis and capacity building in the areas of ECD, TVET, and NFE
that would underpin investment decisions in APL 2. Similarly, analytical work completed
in APL2 will underpin investment decisions for APL 3.

Therefore, the development objective of the proposed ESDP II, APL 2, is to further
increase the access, equity, and the quality of primary and secondary education and
continued strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Education.

The proposed ESOP II, APL 2 is structured to achieve its objectives within nine major
investment components of the project, which are;

      1.     Improving Coverage through Construction of Classrooms.
      2.     Targeted f:quity Based Program
      3.     Essential Teaching and Learning Materials
      4.     School Support through Decentralized Inspection and Advisory Services
      5.     Strength~ning School - level Management
      6.     Distance Teacher Education Program
      7.     Basic Education Curriculum and Assessment
      8.     Expansion of ECCD through Home-based Care
      9.     Further strengthening MOE Institutional Capacity

The detailed policy and investment elements of the proposed APL 2 Project for the
period July 2003 to December 2007 are:

        270 primary classrooms with associated administrative block, kitchen, and
         latrines are bI,Jilt, 70 of which will be located in remote areas
        80 classrooms will be added to the existing 20 secondary schools which are
         identified for being overcrowded (4 classrooms for each secondary school)
        20,000 scholarships awarded to orphans and other disadvantaged children
         annually
        Additional core primary textbooks provided to cater for the new enrolment and
         replenishment and secondary textbook revolving fund established
        5000 primary teachers and 1000 secondary teachers of Math, English. Science.
         Social StudieS and Sesotho provided with refresher course bi-annually
        Primary inspectors (45). primary advisors (85), secondary inspectors (20) and
         secondary advisors (17) trained




                                             10
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


      District management strengthened and 10 District Resource Centres provided
       with equipment and library materials
      School management (400 primary principles and deputies, 100 primary
       management committees, 500 secondary principals and deputies, and 30
       Secondary Boards) trained in finance and management
      Distance Teacher Education Program continue to be supported so that it
       produces at least 250 graduates annually from 2005 onwards
      Develop an Integrated Curriculum and Examination Framework, localize the
       Cambridge Overseas School Certificate Exam and continue to implement
       National Standardized Tests in basic literacy and numeracy
      ECCD home-based centers established in all districts (at least 2 bases per
       district)
      Two Non-formal Education Leamer Post pilots continue to be supported
      Policy development and capacity building in higher educatioh
      MOE institutional capacity strengthened including (a) Strategic Plan reviewed
       and annual operational plans in use; (b) MTEF implemented annually and
       education PER updated by 2004; (c) donor coordination strengthened; (d)
       Education Planning Unit strengthened in policy development, planning,
       monitoring and evaluation; (e) construction of MOE Headquarters building; (f)
       ongoing MOE staff training in strategic areas; and (i) HIV/AIDS policy
       development.

The activities in Project Components 1 and 9 have particular application with regards to
this ESMF and are thus described in greater detail herebelow;

Project Component 1: Improve Coverage through Classroom Construction- will
finance (a) 270 primary classroom with related facilities including administrative block,
kitchen, latrines. At least 70 classrooms will be located in remote "inaccessible" areas;
(b) 80 classrooms will be added to existing 10 secondary schools Which are identified for
being overcrowded (4 classrooms for each secondary school). Each newly constructed
classroom will be provided with a set of standard furniture. An additional 100 science kits
will be procured.

The identification of the sites for school construction will be based on the findings from a
primary and secondary school mapping exercise and/or the request of local
communities. Current information from MOE EMIS show that the Thaba Tseka and
Maseru Districts have the highest average pupil: classroom ratios (68 and 59).
Therefore, the primary construction will be mainly targeted in thesa two districts unless
the school mapping exercise proves the contrary. Further, the community participation in
the construction of primary schools will be piloted in three sites in thaba Tseka. Since
community participation has the potential of sustainability, low cost, and higher
education participation, such an approach will be piloted with financial support for the
project.

This component will also finance the construction of a new 100 bed hostel facility for
male and female students at Thaba Tseka Technical Institute.




                                            11
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO               ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


Project Component 9: Continue to strengthen MoE Institutional Capacity - will
finance the following activities: (a) review of Education Sector Strategic Plan, (b)
implementation of annual MTEF and updating education PER, (c) strengthening of donor
coordination; (d) improvement of MoE's financial management system; (e) Education
Planning Unit strengthened in monitoring. evaluation, research and policy development;
(f) construction of MoE Headquarters Building; (g) ongoing MoE staff training in strategic
areas; (h) piloting and policy development in non-formal and tertiary education; (j) policy
development in higner education: and (k) HIV/AIDS.




                                            12
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) Nil PHASE 2


4.0    DESCR'PTION OF THE AREA OF INFLUENCE

The Kingdom of Lesotho, known in folklore as the mountain kingdom is an enclave in
South Africa located at coordinates 29 30 Sand 28 30 E, measuring approximately
30,355 km 2 with water as it primary natural resource. The terrain is mostly highland with
plateaus, hills and mountains. The lowest point is at the junction of the Orange and
Makhaleng rivers at 1400m and the highest point is at 3,482m in "'rhabana Ntlenyana.
The highlands of Lesotho, known as the Maloti, consist of an elevated and dissected
plateau, with much of it above 2000m.

The climate is characterized generally by very cold winters and wet hot summers. 85
percent of the precipitation occurs in the summer season from October to March when
10 to 12 days per month can be expected. Winters are normally dry but snow is common
in the highlands. Hail is a common occurrence and sudden weather changes are
common, with temperatures falling rapidly within a few hours. the winter season is
generally from May to October and minimum temperatures can reach -10 degree C.

Despite being landlocked Lesotho has abundant highland freshwater resources which
flow primarily due through the Sengu. Senqunyane and Malibamatso river banks. The
hydrology of these rivers is characterized by dendritic drainage patterns with high yields
due to rapid run off from steep slopes, and a highly variable flow regime. These
freshwater sources are fed by high intensity rainfall during the months from October to
March . The Lowland areas also have abundant fresh water sources that flow through
the river banks of the Makhaleng. Mohokare. Tsoaing, Phuthiatsar'la, and Tebetebeng
river banks.

The homogeneity of the parent soil material in general in most Of Lesotho leads to
properties that tend to differ by degree ( i.e. texture, depth and drainage) rather than by
type. The mountainous nature of the terrain determines that large areas are steep and
rocky with limited agricultural potential for both agriculturist and pastoralists. Soils with
agricultural potential include the recent alluvial, colluvial and the deeper of the residual
soils. Of these the riverine and colluvial soils form the most important arable land, which
is approximated to be less than 11 % of the total land area of the Basotho kingdom. The
residual soils on the side and upper slopes are highly variable in depth and degree and
more marginal for agriculture. The hydomorphic soils are occupied by marsh lands which
are heavily grazed by local livestock.

Soil erosion levels throughout the kingdom vary from low to moderate to high, with areas
of moderate to high erosion occurring in, and adjacent to communities. The widespread
low to moderate erosion is the result of localized grazing; The main factors affecting soil
erosion are the influence of vegetation, soil type and slope. Basalt derived soils,
although generally shallow, are particularly stable. Long steep slopes render the land
extremely susceptible to erosion once the vegetative cover is seriously weakened or
lost. High soil losses currently occur in cultivated and settlement areas. For most areas
the average annual soil loss rates exceed the proposed soil tolerances and as a result
significant areas have badly degraded land facets for which soil loss rates are
excessively high, due predominantly to severe vegetation deterioration within populated
areas.




                                             13




                                                                   .. _..   _-_._---------
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO               ENVIRONMENTAl AND SOCiAl MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND ~PUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


The main crops grown in Lesotho are corn, wheat, sorghum, maize. peas, beans, oats
and barley with most households growing vegetables such as cabbage, spinach, onion.
potato and tomato.       .

In most areas the land is also characterized by an absence of significant trees and forest
cover. Most villages have a few small trees. Household biomass fuel is derived from
poplar and willow species and a small amount comes from the die-back of peach and
apricot trees.

The diversity of fauna in the kingdom is very limited. There are approximately less than
70 mammal species in Lesotho, giving the country, by comparison, possibly the lowest
mammal species (jiversity in the southern Africa region. The highlands supports a
relatively [ow diversity of bird species.

The flora in the area is typical Eastern Mountain Region flora which covers the whole
basaltic area. Most of the highland vegetation has been disturbed. River valleys, where
soil is fertile have been converted to agricultural production. Many steep sided slopes
have lost there vegetation and are now being cultivated. Throughout the highland and
lowlands the natural vegetation is relied upon for grazing and have suffered critically
from over-grazing.

The current environmental and social issues in Lesotho today are from problems
associated with POP41ation pressure forcing settlement in marginal areas, overgrazing,
severe soil erosion, soil exhaustion.

The Highland Water Project which controls, stores and redirects water for export to
South Africa poses the single greatest environmental and social challenge facing
Lesotho at the present time.

Lesotho is a signatory to many international treaties on biodiversity. climate change,
desertification, marine life conservation, ozone layer protection and hazardous waste. to
list a few.




                                            14
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


5.0  DESCRIPTION OF THE POLICY,                      LEGAL,      REGULATORY,           AND
ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORKS

Three important developments in education characterize the sector since 1999 which
have had a bearing on the design and implementation of the APL 2.

First, in 1999, the Gol introduced a Free Primary Education Policy. The policy was to be
implemented in a phased fashion so that fees were to be abolished for one standard
every year starting from 2000. In addition to abolishing fees, the policy also includes
provision of a teaching learning materials package, school feeding, and maintenance.
Immediately after the policy, primary enrollment increased by 12% in 2000 and much of
this enrollment was in standard 1. The primary enrollment kept increasing in 2001 and
2002, though the rate or increase is much smaller compared to 2000.

Second, as an explicit strategy for improving the equity and efficiency of the sector
budget allocation, ESOP II built in its design the development of a Medium Term
Expenditure Framework for Education. Tremendous progress has been achieved in
utilizing MTEF for purposes of budget preparation.

Thirdly in 2001. the MoE started the process of developing an Education Sector
Strategic Plan. The draft has provided some basic input to the development of the MTEF
but it is being finalized by government to provide policy guidelines for priority setting,
budgeting and development of projections.

The Education Act 1995 is the statute that governs and regulates the administration of
schools, teachers and all other matters relating to education in Lesotho.

Lesotho has good environmentally regulatory framework enshrined in its Constitution of
1993 and in the National Environment Act 2001 and other local laws and bye-laws. The
1993 Constitution empowers parliament to make laws that provide measures intended to
protect and preserve the environment from abuse, pollution and degradation, to manage
the environment for sustainable development and to promote environmental awareness.

Lesotho is also a signatory to and has ratified all major international conventions.

The National Environment Act 2001 establishes The National Environment Council
primarily as the supreme body in the formulation of policy for the purposes of the Act.
The lesotho Environment Authority (LEA) is to be established as required by the
National Environment Act 2001 as the principal agency in Lesotho responsible for the
management of the environment and to coordinate, monitor and supervise all activities in
the field of the environment.

The Land Act 1979 states that all land in the kingdom is inalienable and is vested
absolutely and irrevocably in the king in trust for the Basotho nation and provides for
land to be held by other persons other than the state by either customary law or under
any other tenure under the act.

The Local Government Act 1996 makes provision for the establishment of local
Authorities and for the purpose of Local Government in lesotho and for matters



                                            15
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO               ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EIlUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2

incidental thereto. Consequentially, this act establishes a District Planning Unit for each
administrative distriot in Lesotho whose function is to provide planning services for
councils within districts and to finalize the District Development Plan in conformity with
the overall National Development Plan.

The Environment 04Gt 2001

The Environment Act 2001 provides for the management of the environment and all
natural resources of Lesotho and for all connected matters. The key features of the act
are Part II: General Principles, Part III: Institutional Arrangements, Part IV:
Environmental Planning. Part V: Environmental Impact Assessment, Audits and
Monitoring. Part VI: Environmental Quality Standards, Part VII: Pollution Control, Part
VIII: Environmental Management, Part IX: Environmental Restoration Order, Part X:
Inspection, Analysis and Record, Part XI: International Environmental Conventions, Part
XII: Information, Education and Public Awareness, Part XIII: Financial Provisions, Part
XIV: Environmentall'ribunal and Part XV: Offences.

Section 9 of the act establishes of the Lesotho Environment Authority whose main
functions shall be ;

     the principal ~gency for the management of the environment.
     to co-ordinate, monitor and supervise all sectoral activities of the field of
      environment.
     be responsible for the implementation of the national environmental policy.
     ensure the integration of environmental concerns in national planning through
      coordination with all line ministries.
     initiate all legislative proposals, standards and guidelines on the environment in
      accordance with this Act.
     review and approve environmental impact assessments and environmental
      impact statements submitted in accordance with this Act.
     Identify projects, activities, policies and programmes or types of projects, pOlicies
      or activities for which environmental impact assessments must be conducted
      under this Act.
     Undertake research, compile and disseminate information about the environment
     Promote pUblic awareness through formal and non formal education on
      environmental management.
     Monitor and aSsess projects or activities that are being carried out by relevant
      line Ministries ( in this case the MoE) and bodies to ensure that the environment
      is not damf3ged by such projects or activities and that environmental
      management objectives are being adhered to and adequate early warning on
      impeding environmental emergencies is given.
     Render advic:;e and technical support, where possible, to bodies engaged in
      environment and natural resource management so as to enable them to carryout
      their respon~ibilities effectively.
     Establish such environmental criteria, guidelines, specifications or standards for
      the protection of the land, air, water, health and welfare of the population from
      environmental degradation.
     Investigate reports of pollution and other related matters.
     Inter alia.


                                            16
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


Section 27 of this Act states that environmental impact assessment (EAI) shall be
undertaken on projects and activities specified in the Schedule of this act. The
construction of schools can be considered as included in article 2 (i), (j) and (k) of the
Schedule of this Act.

The EIA process as required by this Act can be summarized as follows;

           (i)      submission of a project brief /application to the LEA which must
                    include; a brief description of the activity to be undertaken; a
                    description of a/l the tasks to be perfonned- how. what, where and
                    when; a description of the proposed methods to identify the
                    environmental issues and alternatives; a plan of how the applicant
                    proposes the public participation process - when, where, who, and
                    how; and time and activity schedule setting out when the different
                    tasks will be completed.
           (ii)     The LEA will make a decision based on the brief to grant a license.
           (iii)    If a license is not obtained on the basis of the brief, an Environmental
                    Impact Statement must be submitted, including; a non-technical
                    summary; a detailed description of the project and its environment
                    impact; a detailed description of how the environment may be
                    affected; a description of all alternatives identified, such as different
                    locations and processes; a description of the public partiCipation
                    process and its results; other issues required by the LEA during the
                    process.
           (iv)     The report will then be reviewed and assessed by the LEA. After the
                    assessment a decision will be           made indicating ; (a) further
                    information or investigations are required, (b) the project will be
                    accepted and considered for licenSing or (c) the project must be re
                    designed or rejected because some issues cannot be approved.
           (v)      Based on the environmental impact statement and other relevant
                    data, the LEA will issue an Environmental Impact Assessment review
                    report. The review report provides an evaluation of the statement,
                    comparing the statements with this Act and standards. A set of
                    conditions will be outlined and discussed with the applicant before the
                    Environmental Impact Assessment License is issued.
           (vi)     A Record of DeciSion will be issued by the LEA, stating the
                    conclusions of the Environmental Impact Review Process. The
                    Record of Decision will usually be accompanied by the EIA review
                    report and a set of conditions which the project has to comply with.
                    The Record of DeciSion will be published in selected national papers
                    and/or broad casted on radio or television.
           (vii)    On Public Participation- the LEA will inform the applicant. if a public
                    hearing is required. The intended process should be discussed with
                    LEA. The public is thus involved in influencing the project.


At the time of preparation of the project the Lesotho Environment Authority was not yet
established. To a larger extent. the functions and responsibilities of the Lesotho
Environment Authority were being carried out by an overstretched. understaffed and
under funded National Environment Secretariat.


                                             17
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                ENVIRONMENTAl AND SOCiAl MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


Administrative Framework

The country of Lesptho is a sovereign democratic kingdom. Its Ministry of Education will
continue to be the Implementing Agency for the ESOP II APL 2 and the Directorate of
Planning in the MoE through the Project Support and Coordination Unit (PSCU) will
continue to support and manage the implementation of all project components and
activities. The Education Facilities Unit ( EFU) is a unit within the PSCU that will provide
technical support to the PSCU in the implementation of all activities related to the
construction program contained in the ESOP II APL 2.

The PSCU and EFU are headed by a Projects Coordinator and the EFU has four
managers who are; (a) The Facilities Design Manager, whose job description requires
the post to be occupied by an Architect ( and who is in charge of the Architects Section,
Transport Section and Administrative Section); (b) The Contracts Manager ( who is in
charge of the Contracts Section); (c) The Principal Procurement Officer (who is in charge
of the Procurement Section) and (d) The Special Services Manager (who is in charge of
the Special Services Section).

Administratively, Lesotho is divided into 10 districts, namely, Maseru (capital city),
Mafeteng, Mohale's Hoek, Quthing, Qacha's Nek, Thaba Tseka, Mokhotlong, Butha
Buthe, Teyateyaneng, and Hlotse (Leribe).

The Administrative Head of each district is known as the District Administrator (DA).

The Districts are further divided into Local Authorities, which are sub divided into
Municipal Councils, Urban Councils, Rural Councils and Community Councils.

There is established a District Planning Unit for each administrative district whose
functions are, inter alia, to provide planning services for'the Councils within its district
and to finalize the District Development Plan consistent with the overall National
Development Plan.

The Local communities will elect a steering committee to represent them.




                                             18
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MNJAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


               SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP   HI APL PHASE 2

6.0         DESCRIPTION OF THE WORLD BANK'S SAFEGUARD POLICIES

The World Bank Safeguard Policies are;

      1.       Environmental Assessment OP 4.01
      2.       Natural Habitats OP 4.04
      3.       Forests OP 4.36
      4.       Pest Management OP 4.09
      5.       Cultural Property OPN 11.03
      6.       Indigenous Peoples 00 4.20
      7.       Involuntary Resettlement OP 4.12
      8.       Safety of Dams OP 4.37
      9.       Projects on International Waterways OP 7.50
      10.      Projects in Disputed Areas OP 7.60


In light of the type of project activities anticipated, the following World Bank Operational
Policies will/may apply:

OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment
OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement


Project activities that trigger the policies on Safety of Dams. Natural Habitats. Forestry.
Pest Management, Cultural Property, Indigenous Peoples, Projects on Internationat
Waters and Projects in Disputed areas would not be supported under the project.
Included in Annex 5.0 is a summary of the World Bank Safeguard Policies which should
be referred to during the environmental and social screening process when using the
scre~ning form in Annex 1


           OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment

This policy requires environmental assessment (EA) of projects proposed for Bank
financing to help ensure that they are environmentally sound and sustainable, and thus
to improve decision making. The EA is a process whose breadth. depth. and type of
analysis depend on the nature. scale, and potential environmental impact of the sub
project activities of ESOP II APl 2. The EA process takes into account the natural
environment ( air, water, and land); human health and safety; social aspects (involuntary
resettlement. indigenous peoples. and cultural property) and transboundary and global
environmental aspects.

The environmental and social impacts of the ESOP II APl 2 project will come from the
construction activities of the schools, MoE Head Office and the Hostel Block of the
Thaba Tseka Technical Institute that the ESOP II APL 2 will be financing. However,
since the location of these schools will not be identified before appraisal of the project.
the EA process calls for the Gal to prepare a Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF) report which will establish a mechanism to determine and assess
future potential environmental and social impacts of the construction activities under the
proposed ESOP II APL 2, and then to set out mitigation, monitoring and institutional



                                             19
THE GOVERNMENT OF I-eSOTHO              ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND Ef)UCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


measures to be taken during implementation and operation of the sub projects to
eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to
acceptable levels.
OP 4.01 further requires that the ESMF report must be disclosed as a separate and
stand alone document in Sesotho by the Government of Lesotho and in English at the
World Bank as a eondition for Bank Appraisal of the ESOP II APL 2. The disclosure
should be both in Lesotho where it can be accessed by the general public and local
communities and at the Infoshop of the World Bank and the date for disclosure must
precede the date for appraisal of the project.

The policy further calls for the ESOP II APL 2 project as a whole to be environmentally
screened to determine the extent and type of the EA process. The ESOP II APL 2has
thus been screened and assigned a Category B

        Category B projects are likely to have potential adverse environmental impacts
        on human populations or environmentally important areas - including wetlands,
        forests, grasslands, and other natural habitats - and are less adverse than those
        of category .A projects. These impacts are site specific, few if any of them are
        irreversible. and in most cases mitigation measures can be designed more
       -readily than for category A projects. The EA process for category B projects
        examines the potential negative and positive environmental impacts and
        recommends any measures needed to prevent. minimize, mitigate, or
        compensate for adverse impacts and improve environmental performance.

Therefore, this ESMF sets out to establish the EA process to be undertaken for
implementation of project activities in the proposed ESOP " APL 2 project when they
are being identified and implemented.

      OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement

   Significant efforts are to be made in the design and screening stages of project
   activities to avoid impacts on people, land, property, including people's access to
   natural and other economic resources, as far as possible. Notwithstanding. land
   acquisition, compensation and resettlement of people seem inevitable for some
   selected school sites . This social issue is of crucial concern to the Government of
   Lesotho and the Bank as its impact on poverty, if left unmitigated, is negative.
   immediate and widespread. Thus, a resettlement policy framework has been
   prepared by the government and approved by the bank in compliance with OP 4.12.
   This framework sets the guidelines for the resettlement plans that would have to be
   prepared for any land acquisition or impacts that triggers this policy. The
   resettlement plans would have to be submitted to the EFU for review and to the MoE
   for approval but would also have to be approved by the Bank before the construction
   is financed.

   This policy would be triggered when a project activity causes the involuntary taking
   of land and other assets resulting in: (a) relocation or loss of shelter, (b) loss of
   assets or acceEis to assets (c) loss of income sources or means of livelihood,
   whether or not the affected persons must move to another location.




                                           20
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


           SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


   The resettlement policy applies to all displaced persons regardless of the total
   number affected. the severity of the impact and whether or not they have legal title to
   the land. Particular attention should be paid to the needs of vulnerable groups
   among those displaced. The policy also requires that the implementation of the
   resettlement plans are a pre-requisite for the implementation/start of the construction
   to ensure that displacement or restriction of access does not occur before necessary
   measures for resettlement and compensation are in place. For chosen sites involving
   land acquisition, it is further required that these measures include provision of
   compensation and of other assistance required for relocation, prior to displacement.
   and preparation and provision of resettlement sites with adequate facilities, where
   required. In particular, the taking of land and related assets may take place only after
   compensation has been paid. and where applicable, resettlement sites, new homes
    related infrastructure and moving allowances have been provided to displaced
   persons. For project activities requiring relocation or loss of shelter, the policy further
   requires that measures to assist the displaced persons are implemented in
   accordance with the project resettlement plans of action. The policy aims to have the
   displaced persons perceive the process to be fair and transpareht.


OP 4.12 requires the RPF to be disclosed both in Lesotho and at the Bank before
appraisal.


The provisions of both OP 4.01 and OP 4.12 apply to all components under the
project, whether or not they are directly funded in whole or in part by the Bank.
Therefore, even though the construction of the Head Office Complex for the
Ministry of Education and the Construction of a new 100 bed student hostel for
Thaba-Tseka Technical Institute (TTl), may be undertaken with funding from other
sources within this project, the EA process and the RPF remain mandatory for the
implementation of these activities, even though they may not be financed by the
Bank.




                                             21
THE GOVERNMENT OF LE$OTHO                  ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


                SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


7.0  PROPOSED INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT

7.1      Background and lessons learned

The Projects Support and Coordination Unit (PSCU) of the Ministry of Education will
support and manage the implementation of all project components and activities . The
Education Facilities Unit of the PSCU will provide the required technical support for the
school construction program and aU other civil works.

The EFU is headed by the Projects Coordinator assisted by the Facilities Design
Manage, Special Services Manager, Contracts Adviser, Contracts Manager,
Construction Supervisor and a team of architects, engineers and technicians.

There is no one in the EFU whose job description includes environmental and social
responsibilities as required by the ESMF .
                                .
The Lesotho Environment Authority (LEA) whose responsibility it is to be the principal
agency in the Kingdom for the management of the environment, has to date not been set
up. The roles and responsibilities of the LEA are being undertaken as best they can by
the National Environment Secretariat (NES).

The NES is critically understaffed and is thus unable to fulfill its mandate. The NES has
categorically stated that without technical assistance or some form of capacity building
measure it would not be able to successfully undertake any additional responsibilities
under this project.

7.2      Proposed Institutional Framework

The following institutional arrangements are recommended to address the issues
presented above ~hereby enabling the sustainable execution of all measures identified in
this ESMF. The recommendations are based on using the existing PSCU, EFU and NES
administrative structure but to strengthen them by assigning new responsibilities to
existing positions, putting an effective monitoring mechanism procedure in place and by
providing training for those key positions assigned new responsibilities. The Steering
Committees (SC's) of local communities are assigned responsibilities and will also
benefit from training.

Specifically:

        Steering Committees (SC's)- are to be elected by        their local communities and
         should consist of trainable people who ideally          should be well respected
         individuals who command the respect of their            communities. Women are
         especially encouraged to seek election to their Se's.    The roles of the SC include
         but not restriotect to;

                      represent their communities on all matters required of them regarding
                      the ESOP II APl2 project.



                                               22
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO             ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


           SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2


                 Request by submitting an application for a new school in their locality
                 to the MoE
                 Register the names of all primary school going age children in the
                 catchment villages, their ages and standards (Le. grades) they will be
                 in the following year.
                 In close consultation with their communities propose suitable site for
                 the new school in the locality.
                 Screen and modify standard designs of new schools, incorporating
                 mitigation measures based on identified adverse impacts.
                 Act as liaison between the local community the MoE and EFU officials
                 during the construction of the school regarding all other matters
                 required in this ESMF including monitoring to ensure designed
                 mitigation measures are respected during construction and during
                 operation of the school.
                 Commit the local community to binding contracts in cases such as
                 preparation of resettlement and compensation plans.
                 To ensure they make available for training  trainable members who
                 would acquire the skills necessary to perform their responsibilities.
                 To work with in a cooperative, supportive and reciprocal manner,
                 service providers who would be appointed by the PSCU to work with
                 them.

To successfully carry out these responsibilities the SC's will be trained as per the
training program contained in Section 9 of this ESMF.

     The Education Facilities Unit (EFU) -will be responsible for advising the MoE
      through the PSCU on any and all technical decisions required to successfully
      implement the civil works activities in the ESDP II APL 2. Specifically, the EFU

                 will advice the PSCU on whether to approve for construction of a new
                 school in a locality.
                 Will advice the PSCU on secondary schools which need to be
                 expanded.
                 Will approve the selection of sites for the building of schools, new
                 MoE Head Office, and the new 100 bed Hostel for TIl, based on
                 submissions and recommendations from se's and/or service
                 providers, consistent with the requirements of OP 4.12 and the
                 disclosed RPF.
                 Will check for compliance with the EA process Contained in section 8
                 of this ESMF by the SC's and service providers/consultants. In effect
                 the EFU will be the custodians of the requirements of the ESMF and
                 the RPF.
                 Will be responsible for ensuring that the monitoring plan as contained
                 in the individual submissions for civil works are implemented as stated
                 therein and for the overall monitoring of the entire ESDP II APL 2
                 requirements as contained in section 10 of this ESMF.

      To ensure that the EFU can undertake their responsibilities key people will be
      trained ( see section 9). The individual responsibilities would then be assigned by
      the Projects Coordinator.


                                          23
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO             ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


           SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


      There ;s no need to employ additional staff as the present staffing levels are
      deemed adequate. All that is required for the existing staff to be trained and
      assigned additional/new responsibilities. so that the ESMF can be sustainably
      implemented.

     The National Environment Secretariat (NES) - the roles and responsibilities in
      this ESMF have been mostly assigned to the SC's and the PSCU/EFU. However.
      the NES will perform two key roles;

       1.  An enforcement monitoring role as stated in Section 10.

      2.  Coordinate and implement the training program as stated in Section 9.NES
          would also benefit from training as per section 9.




                                          24
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                      ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


              SECOND EDUCAnON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


8.0 PROPOSED SCREENING MECHANISM AND                                           ENVIRONMENTAL
CHECKLIST OF RISKS AND MITIGATION MEASURES

The sections below will illustrate specific steps involved in the environmental and social
assessment process leading towards clearance and approval of the EA process for the
project activities anticipated to have adverse environmental and social impacts. The
steps incorporate guidelines from both the Lesotho Environment Authority (LEA) and the
World Bank OP 4.01.

The project activities that are anticipated to have adverse environmental and social
effects are;

                        (a) the construction and operation of new primary schools and
                            expansion of facilities at secondary schools. This activity would
                            be collectively referred to as construction of schools for the
                            purposes of this EA process.

                        and

                        (b) the construction of MoE Head office and the construction of 100
                            bed hostel at Thaba Tseka Technical Institute TTl). These
                            activities would be collectively referred to as construction of
                            facilities for the purposes of this EA process.

The Construction of schools will be implemented by the Steering Committee (SC) of
local communities . The construction of schools will be based on existing standard
architectural school designs that are presently being used by the MOE. The construction
of the schools will be done by MoE certified contractors aPPOinted by the PSCU.

The Construction of facilities will be implemented by the Education Facilities Unit (EFU).

In applying these steps. with the assistance of service providers the implementers (Le.
the SC and EFU) will gain initial experience which will be invaluable to them when they
assume responsibility for managing the mitigation measures involved in the
implementation, operational and monitoring stages of the project activities. Therefore,
under the proposed project. capacity will be developed at the level of the SC and EFU
and their service providers 1 to carry out the following EA process:

1)       For Construction of Schools

        (a) This process can only start after approval has been given by the MoElWorld
            Bank to build a school in a particular local community.



I The service providers are local consultants who would be engaged by the EFU to work with se's to help
them carry out their responsibilities for the process leading from making a request for a school, site
selection, supervision of constructJon of the school, EA screening etc. The EFU will also requlIe serviCe
proViders ill the form of consulting firms who would prOVIde architectural and engineering services for
deSign and supervision of the new MoE and TTl hostel facilities.


                                                   25
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO             ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


           SECOND eDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


      (b) Once a local community has been approved for a school construction, the
          SC will screen the standard school designs to identify adverse environmental
          and social impacts on their chosen land site by using the screening form in
          Annex 1.0 and the environmental and social checklist in Annex 2.0.

      (C)  Once these impacts are identified the various mitigation measures would
           also be identified from the use of the completed screening form and
           checklist. The SC will modify various aspects of the standard design to
           incorporate the required mitigation measures.

      (d) The SC will re-screen the modified designs using the previously completed
          screening form and checklist to ensure that all impacts have been adequately
          identified and mitigated.

      (e) Additionally, for situations where this screening process has identified that
          OP 4.12 is triggered, then the provisions of the Resettlement Policy
          Framework would apply. This would require that the SC chose another site
          that does not trigger OP 4.12 or maintain the site that triggers OP 4.12 but to
          prepare a resettlement and compensation plan (RAP) that is consistent with
          the provisions of the RPF.

      (f)  Throughout this screening process the SC would be assisted by service
           providers.

      (g)1 Once the SC is satisfied that the modified designs are now environmentally
           and socially compliant, they would now submit their modified designs Which
           must be accompanied by the site location plan, completed screening form 
           checklist .:md where applicable the RAP, to the EFU for acceptance.

      (h) The  EFU will review the submitted roodified design to ensure that all
          environmental and social impacts have been identified and successfully
          mitigated based on use of the screening form and checklist. If the screening
          form has any "Yes" entries, or evidently unjustified "No" entries, the
          application would need to adequately explain and demonstrate from the
          modified design that the issue has been managed to avoid unacceptable
          adverse effects/impacts. If this is the case then the EFU will give a
          conditional approval for construction to begin based on the following
          conditions;

               The complete implementation of the Resettlement and Compensation
                Plan prepared consistent with the RPF where OP 4.12 has been
                triggered.
               The Construction Contract Documents ( Le. the works and materials
                specifications, drawings, bills of quantities, contract conditions, etc.)
                are made consistent with the roodified designs.
               That a local service provider assist the SC to supervise '-the
                construction process.




                                          26
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


              SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) .Af:lL PHASE 2


       (i)  If the EFU finds that the submitted modified design is not consistent with the
            requirements of the screening form and checklist, then the SC would be
            requested to make additional modifications and/or chose other sites until it is
            consistent whereby approval would then be given as per (h) above.

       (j)  Any proposed design that does not comply with the requirements of the
            Environment Act 2001, LEA requirements and the WOrld Bank Policy OP
            4.01 on Environmental Assessment will not be cleared for approval/
            construction.

The process is designed to ensure that the environmental and social assessment
process is part ofand conducted during the planning stages with full participation of the
local community. thereby ensuring that project activities are environmentally and socially
sustainable.

2)     For Construction of Facilities

       (a)      The head office construction is likely to be a fairly large operation to be
                located in the heart of the central business district in Maseru, costing well
                in excess of a few million united states dollars. This activity is classified
                as a B using the classification of OP 4.01 explained in section 6 of this
                report. Therefore, this would require that an Environmental and Social
                Impact Assessment be carried out as part of the design process. The
                issues cannot be handled by use of a simple screening form and check
                list.

       (b)      The carrying out of the EA wilf be part of the Terms of Reference of the
                Consulting Firm of Architects and Engineers who would be selected to
                design the building to ensure that the identification of impacts and their
                mitigation is part and parcel of the planning and design process, thus
                ensuring that the final design is environmentally sustainable and sound.
                The next stages of the screening and approval process will be determined
                during negotiations between the firm and the MoE as this will be a fairly
                large undertaking. However. any proposed design that does not comply
                with the requirements of the Environment Act 2001, LEA requirements
                and the World Bank Policy OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment and
                OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement will not be cleared for approval!
                construction. To satisfy this requirement, the ESIA prepared by the design
                consultant for the Head office building would have to be submitted to the
                World Bank for approval. A draft TOR for the preparation of a ESIA for the
                MoE Head Office is attached in Annex 3.0.

       (c)      Whereas. Jor the Construction of the 100 bed Hostel at TTl, even though
                the cost is expected to be much greater than the cost of construction of a
                new primary school, its environmental and social impscts are expected to
                be of relatively the same severity , as the design is to be simple and of
                low cost maintenance like the existing hostel block at TTl, therefore, the
                environmental and social impact on both potential sites from the
                construction of TTl 100 bed hostel facility would be identified and



                                              27
THE GOVERNMENT OF L-=SOTHO                ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


              SECOND I;DUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


                 successfully mitigated from the use of the screening form in Annex 1 and
                 the checklist in Annex 2.

       (d)       The EFU who would act as the implementers for the TIl and engage the
                 services of a consulting firm of architects and engineers to design the
                 hostel block. The Terms of Reference of this firm of service providers
                 would include the use of the screening form and checklist to identify any
                 environmental and social impacts from their design and to incorporate
                 the appropriate mitigation measures into the design. The service provider
                 will on completion of his design submit it with the completed screening
                 fonn, checklist and recommendation on which site to use, to the EFU for
                 review and approval.

       (e)       The EFU will review the submitted design to check for compliance with
                 the requirements of the screening form and checklist and thus confirm
                 that the design is environmentally acceptable.

       (f)       Any proposed design that does not comply with the requirements of the
                 Environment Act 2001, LEA requirements and the World Bank Policy OP
                 4.01 on Environmental Assessment and OP 4.12 on Involuntary
                 Resettlement will not be cleared for approvall construction.


Environmental Management Plan (EMP): SC design proposals must contain as part of
their application an (!MP that will consist of a set of monitoring measures to be taken
during the implementation and operation of the school to ensure that mitigation
measures identified in the modified standard designs are built as designed and remain
functional in the post construction stage (Le. when the school is being used). The EMP
should also include the actions needed to implement these measures, including the
following features:

              Monitoring: Environmental and social monitoring during the construction and
              operational phase of the school, in order to measure the success of the
              mitigation measures. Specifically:

                  The need for on site construction supervision .

                  periodic inspection of facilities post construction stage (Le when the
                 school is operational) to ensure that the site has regular water supply,
                 toile1$ are working, waste material is disposed of as required, etc. and
                 that regular maintenance ( malfunctions/faults are repaired in a timely
                 manner) is occurring.

The ESIA report for the new head office of the MoE should also contain an EMP to
address these issues ( included in Annex 3.0 in the TOR for the MoE Head office ESIA)

Public Consultations: Public consultations are critical in preparing an effective and
sustainable request for school, land identification and selection, etc. This requirement
supports the particip13tory planning process that is required by legislation in Lesotho. The



                                              28
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO               ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APt.. PHASE 2


first step is to hold public consultations with the local communities and all other
interested laffected parties. These consultations should identify key issues and
determine how the concerns of all parties will be addressed in the terms of reference of
the design of project activities. To facilitate meaningful consultations, the local
governments will assist the MoE to provide all relevant material and information
concerning the school construction program in the ESDP II APL 2 in a timely manner
prior to the consultation, in a form and in Sesotho so that they are understandable and
accessible to the groups being consulted. Depending on the pUblic interest in the
potential impacts of the project activities, a public hearing may be requested to better
convey concerns. To ensure that an appropriate public consultation mechanism is
developed, the Checklist in Annex 2 includes such a requirement. Once the project
activities have been reviewed and cleared by the EFU, the SC's will inform the public
about the results of the review. This approach would be consistent with the Bank's OP
4.01 Environmental Assessment as well as Lesotho's efforts to enhance its participatory
planning process.

This process has already begun. During the preparation of this ESMF the consultant
undertook an eleven days study tour in Lesotho during which discussions were held with
the Management of the Projects Support Coordination Unit (PSCU) and officials of the
Education Facilities Unit and National Environment Secretariat. The consultant also
attended briefing meetings with potential service providers held by the PSCU for the
School Mapping Exercise and the Design of the MoE Head office and visited the
potential sites for the construction of the MoE Head office . Field visits were also
conducted in Thaba Tseka and Maseru Districts. At Thaba Tseka District, the consultant
visited the Thaba Tseka Training Institute where a meeting was held with the acting
Director General of the Institute and was shown around the two potential sites for the
construction of the 100 bed Hostel facility and toured the existing hostel on campus. In
Thaba Tseka District. speCifically in Mohlakeng Village, the consultant participated in a
sensitization meeting held with local communities and organized by the Supervisor of
Government Schools, who was on a country wide tour sensitizing communities on the
education for all policy adopted by the GoL During this sensitization meeting, the
consultant met with around 100 participants from the local communities and briefed them
on the ESOP 2 APL 2 and on their responsibilities and roles under the project in general
but more so on the ESMF and RPF. The community response was very positive and
they seemed keen to play their role. The meeting was held on the Mohlakeng Primary
School grounds, which contained only two tents that served as shelter from the
elements. The consultant held many such meetings throughout potential school sites in
the Thaba Tseka and Maseru Districts such as at Masite Hatlhakanelo, Maseqobela ,
Senyotong, Mosletoa and Tsepo. During these visits the consultant meet with the chief.
school teachers and students. These sites were potential school sites for APL 2 but were
at present operating a school under tents. The consultant also visited and held meetings
at the Mosotho Primary School a school that was financed during APL 1.

The ESMF and RPF will be translated into Sesotho by the PSCU and copies in English
and Sesotho would be available at the following locations;

          Infoshop of the Word Bank.
          Maseru and District Offices of the National Environment Secretariat
          Office of the PSCU in Maseru
          Office of the EFU in Maseru


                                            29
THE GOVERNMENT OF   LE~OTHO           ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


           SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


          Office of the District Administrator in each district. 

          Home of tne Local Chief of each community that is approved for a school. 





                                          30
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO               ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) Al'L PHASE 2


9.0  PROPOSED            CAPACITY        BUILDING       MEASURES         AND     COSTS
       ESTIMATES

Capacity building for environmental and social management

As described in an earlier section of this framework. project component 9 sub
component (e) will finance activities to strengthen the institutiohal capacity of the
Education Facilities Unit ,(EFU) in monitoring. evaluation. research and policy
development and sub component (g) by MoE staff training in strategic areas.

For the purposes of this ESMF therefore. capacity building will be targeted at the
Education Facilities Unit and at the level of the local committee's.

At the EFU the following staff would be provided with training;

      Facilities Design Manager

      Special Services Manager

      Contracts Adviser

      Contracts Manager

      Construction Supervisor

      Architectural Technicians

      Survey Technicians



The training of EFU staff would take the form of a week long training workshop held
nationally based on the proposed training program below to equip the staff of the EFU
with the required skills to implement this ESMF thereby ensuring that the project
activities of the ESOP II APL 2 are environmentally sustainable. The below training
program is consistent with the needs of the EFU to meet their responsibilities as stated
in Section 7 of this ESMF.




                                            31
THE GOVERNMENT OF LI;50THO               ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


             SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APl PHASE 2




Proposed Training Program For EFU STAFF                                          Duration

Environmental and Social assessment process                                         3days

.Review of Standard School Designs
.Screening process
.Identification of Impacts
.Design of Appropril:1te Mitigation Measures
 Rationale for using Screening form and Environmental and Social Checklists
 Preparation of terms of reference for carrying out ESIA
 How to review and approve project proposals
 The importance of public consultations in the EA process
 How to monitor project implementation
 Case studies

Environmental and Social policies, procedures and guidelines                        2 days

 Review and discussion of Lesotho's environmental policies, procedures, and
legislation.
 Review and discu~sion of the Bank's safeguards policies.
 Review of ESMF, E;SIA, RPF and Resettlement Plan.
 Collaboration with institutions at the local, regional and national levels., e.g. national"
environment secretariat.

Selected topics on environmental protection                                         1 day

   Land Use, Land Degradation and Soil Erosion
   Flood protection  .
   Waste disposal
    Ground and Surface Water management




For the local communities, all members of their Steering Committees would be trained
based on the training program below to successfully implement their roles and
responsibilities as required in this ESMF in particular but also the ESOP II APL 2 project
in generally. Subsequently. they would then train members of their communities on the
issues raised in the training program. By so doing significantly increasing environmental
and social awareness throughout the kingdom as schools are built.

The below training program is consistent with the needs of the           se   to meet their
responsibilities as stated in Section 7 of this ESMF.




                                             32
 THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO               ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


             SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2



 Proposed Training Program For SC Staff                                          Duration

 Environmental and Social assessment process                                        1day

.Review of Standard School Designs
.Screening process
 Use of Screening Form and Environmental and Social Checklists to identify impacts
and mitigation measures
 How to monitor project implementation
 Case studies

. Environmental and Social policies, procedures and guidelines                      1 day

   Preparation of application for new school
   Review of ESMF
   Land screening for site selection
   Use of RPF
   Preparation and Implementation of Resettlement Plan.

Selected topics on environmental protection                                         1 day

 Land Use, land degradation and Soil Erosion in their local community
 Safe management of waste disposal and implications on public health.
 Environmental Protection of Water Sources.


Training Rationale

     1.     Training of EFU Staff - The training of EFU staff would be done by a suitably
            qualified international consultant.

     2.     Training of NES Trainers - National Environment Secretariat (NES) trainers
            would be trained by the same international consultant in 1. above.

     3.     Trained NES trainers will now train SC's on a "as is required" basis.

     4.     Training of Service Providers - At the moment it is envisaged that the
            capacity in the local communities to provide service providers who will be
            required to work with SC's will be non existent or minimal. Therefore, to
            significantly build local capacity, NES trainers will identify trainable people
            drawn primarily from members of civil society in the local communities, local
            NGO's and public service workers who would then be trained by the NES
            trainers to become service providers to the SC's providing technical
            assistance to assist fulfill their responsibilities as outlined in Section 7.




                                            33
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND J:PUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2




Cost estimates

The costs estimates are based on the assumption that the training program for SC staff
and trainers of service pr.oviders will be held at the regional levels; resource persons'are
likely to come from other parts of the country and therefore will require travel allowances;
participants will come from the local community and attend during the day only but will
receive a per diem. These estimates include an allowance for travel expenses and all
costs of the international consultant. It is proposed that the training program for the SC
staff will be implemented four times a year, at least once in each quarter in each district
over the first two years of the project cycle and complimentary the school construction
program. The training program for the EFU staff would be done once, within two months
of project effectiveness.

The Total Training audget is estimated at US$75,OOO.




                                             34
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


10.0    MONIJORING INDICATORS AND PLAN WITH                    costs
Responsibilities for Monitoring and Evaluation of the Mitigation Measures would be
assigned as follows:

Education Facilities Unit (EFU) - The EFU Will be responsible for monitoring the
environmental and social screening process carried out by the SC's and for the Tri. The
EFU will also be responsible for monitoring the EA process for the MoE head office with
support from the National Environment Secretariat. Details of the screening processes
are outlined earlier in this report.

Steering Committee's (SC's) - will be responsible for monitoring of (i) the
environmental and social assessment work to be carried out on its behalf by service
providers; (ii) overseeing the implementation of the resettlement plans. (iii) the
supervision of the civil works contractor during the construction process. (iv) operations
and maintenance of the school facilities when handed over to the local community after
construction. The SC will be assisted in performing these monitoring duties by their
service providers.

National Environment Secretariat (NES) - will perform an enforcement monitoring role
supported by the EFU( who would perform a self monitoring role) with particular focus on
monitoring cumulative impacts of the school construction program on a National level
and to ensure that individual mitigation measures are effective at the cumulative and
national level.

Monitoring activities by the EFU, SC's and NES will be performed periodically.

The arrangements for monitoring would fit the overall monitoring plan of the entire ESOP
/I APL 2 project which would be through the PSCU of the Ministry of Education.

The objective for monitoring are two fold.

1) to alert project authorities and to provide timely information about the success or
otherwise of the EA process outlined in this ESMF in such a manner that changes to the
system can be made if required.

2) to make a final evaluation in order to determine whether the mitigation measures
designed into the project activities have been successful in such a way that the pre
project environmental and social condition has been restored, improved upon or worst
than before.

A number of indicators would be used in order to determine the status of affected people
and their environment (land being used compared to before, number of schools in a
district compared to before, level of participation in project activities compared to before,
how many kids in school compared to'before, health standards, how many clean water
sources than before, how many people employed than before etc). Therefore, the
projects EA process will set three major socio-economic goals by which to evaluate its
success:




                                             35
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO              ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


           SECOND EPUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP 1/) APL PHASE 2


     Affected individuals, households, and communities are able to maintain their pre
      project standard of living, and even improve on it;

     Has the pre-project environmental state of natural resources, bio-diversity and
      flora and fauna, been maintained or improved upon, and

     The local communities remain supportive of the project.

In order to assess whether these goals are met, the project will indicate parameters to
be monitored, institute monitoring milestones and provide resources necessary to carry
out the monitoring activities.

The following parameters and verifiable indicators will be used to measure the EA
process, mitigation plans and performance;

   For the EA process the following indicators;

     Number of people on the steering committees (SC's) who have successfully
      received EA training in screening methods etc. ; evaluate the training content,
      methodology and trainee response to training through feedback.
     Numbers of women trained; assess understanding of the need for the EA
      process as a tool for sustainable development.
     Number of SC's who have adopted the EA process as required by ESOP II APL
      2; evaluate the rate of adoption.
     Number of school construction projects screened compared to how many local
      communities approved for a school.
     In how many SC's planning stages is the EA checklist and screening form
      applied?; Are the numbers increasing and at what rate?
     How has the adoption of the EA requirements improved the environmental health
      and bio-physical state of the communities USing/affected by the project.
     What are the main benefits that members derive from the use of the EA process?
              Economic Benefits (i) Increase in achievement of school construction
              projects adopting EA guidelines (ii) Increase in revenue for SC's resulting
              from adoption of EA guidelines, compared with conventional practices.
              Social Benefits - improvement in the environmental health status of cash
              crop farmers
              Environmental Benefits (i) improvement in the sustainable use of
              Lesotho's natural resources.
     Efficiency of new built schools maintenance and operating performance.
     How many completed schools have their toilet facilities in good working condition
      one year after completion.
     How many schools have implemented an effective and working facilities
      maintenance program.
     Overall assessment of (i) activities that are going well (ii) activities that
      need improvements and (iii) remedial actions required.
     Is the screening process identified in this ESMF working well.
     Final Question : Based on the performance of the school construction
      program review, what, if any changes to the ESMF or RFP, and additional


                                           36
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MAHAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2


       training capacity building, are required to improve the performance of the
       ESMF and the RPF implementation.


Capacity Development and Cost of Carrying out the EA process.

In order to assist the SC's and the EFU in strengthening their environmental assessment
capacity, it will be necessary to recruit trained service providers to be funded under
component 9 of the project. A breakdown of the costs of the service providers is given
below.

se's: The PSCU will recruit qualified service providers to assist the SC's in carrying out
their responsibilities such as (i) environmental and social screenihg to identify adverse
impacts, (ii) modifying of standard designs to incorporate required mitigation measures,
iii) prepare resettlement plans where applicable, monitoring of mitigation measures and
implement the EA process.

EFU's: The PSCU will recruit qualified service providers to assist the EFU in fulfilling its
responsibilities, such as review new school project design and application and the EA
process SC's have gone through, resettlement plans, environmental review, monitoring
etc.

The costs to be incurred will be as follows:

Environmental Assessment process of new school construction projects. As
recommended in this ESMF , SC's assisted by service providers will screen their own
designs/applications before submitting them for approval to the EFU (see section 8). The
total cost for EA is estimated at $50,000.

                              Total cost of carrying out EA process: $50,000

Resettlement Plans. The preparation of resettlement plans and sobial assessments will
be carried out by qualified service providers on behalf of the SC'S . Provision would be
made under this project in the EFU to support this work. It is estimated that 10% of new
school projects or 20 ,may require resettlement plans; that it takes about 15 days to
prepare a resettlement plan and related studies; at a rate of $35/day, the preparation of
the 20 resettlement plans will cost $10,500.

                              Total cost of carrying out Resettlement Plan: $10,500




                                               37
THE GOVERNMENT OF t.,E130THO               ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


               SECOND I=PUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2




                                         ANNEX 1.0 


                 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SCREENING FORM 



The Environmental and Social Screening Form (ESSF) has been designed to assist in
the evaluation of design proposals for the new school building program and the 100 bed
hostel facility at TTl. The form is designed to place information in the hands of
implementers and reviewers (Se's and EFU) so that impacts and their mitigation
measures, if any, ~n be identified and/or that requirements for further environmental
analysis be determined.

The ESSF contains information that will allow reviewers to determine the
characterization of the prevailing local bio-physical and social environment with the aim
to assess the potential project impacts on it. The ESSF will also identify potential socio
economic impacts that will require mitigation measures and or resettlement and
compensation.


Name ofVillagelTown/Area in which School is to be Built: 


Name of Contact Person of Steering Committee: 


Name of District where school is to be built: 


Name of Approving Authority: EFU 


Name, job title, and contact details for the person who is responsible for filling out this 

form. 


Name: 


Job Title: 


Telephone number: 


Fax number: 


E-Mail address: 


Date: 


Signature: 





                                               38
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


1. Brief School/Project Description

Please provide information on the number of students who will attend the school, the
range of their ages. and the standards they will be in. in the followlhg year. Also provide
area of acquired land and approximate size of total building floor areas.




2. The Natural Environment

(a) Describe the land formation, topography. vegetation In/adjacent to the Project area




(b) Estimate and indicate where vegetation might need to be cleared




(c) Are there any environmentally sensitive areas or threatened species (specify below)
that could be adversely affected by the project?

        (I) Intact natural forests Yes       No_ __

        (ii) Riverine forest Yes         No_ __

        (iii) Wetlands (lakes, rivers, seasonally inundated areas) Yes          No_ __

        (Iv) How far Is the nearest Wetlands((lakes, rivers, seasonally inundated
        areas)?                         km

        (v) Habitats of endangered species for which protection is required under
        Lesotho law and/or international agreements. Yes            No_ __

        (vi) Others (describe), Yes        No_ _.. . :.




                                            39
THE GOVERNMENT OF L~$OTHO                 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCiAl MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


             SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2


3. Rivers and Lakes Ecology

Is there a possibility that, due to construction and operation of the project, the river and
lake ecology will be adversely affected? Attention should be paid to water quality and
quantity; the nature, productivity and use of aquatic habitats, and variations of these over
time.

Yes         No_--"...".



4. Protected areas

Does the project area (or components of the project) occur within/adjacent to any
protected areas de$ignated by government (national park, national reserve, world
heritage site etc.)

Yes         No_--,--,

If the project is outside of, but close to, any protected area, is it likely to adversely affect
the ecology within the protected area areas (e.g., interference with the migration routes
of mammals or birds)

Yes         No_---.,...,.


5. Geology and Soils

Based upon visual inspection or available literature, are there areas of possible geologic
or soil instability (erosion prone, landslide prone, subsidence-prone)?

Yes         No_-...,...,

Based upon visual inspection or available literature, are there areas that have risks of
large scale increase in soil salinity?

Yes         No_-...,,_


6. Landscape/aesttUttics

Is there a possibility that the project will adversely affect the aesthetic attractiveness of
the local landscape?

Yes         No_ __




                                               40
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2


7. Historical, archaeological or cultural heritage site.


Based on available sources, consultation with local authorities, local knowledge and/or
observations, could the project alter any historical, archaeological or cultural heritage
site or require excavation near same?

Yes         No._ __


8. Resettlement and/or land AcquiSition 


Will involuntary resettlement, land acquisition, or loss, denial or restriction of access to 

land and other economic resources be caused by project implementation? 


Yes         No_ __ 


If "Yes" Involuntary Resettlement OP 4.12 is triggered. Please refer to RPF for
appropriate mitigation measures to be taken.

9. loss of Crops, Fruit Trees and Household Infrastructure


Will the project result in the permanent or temporary loss of crops, fruit trees and
household infra-structure (such as granaries, outside toilets and kitchens, etc)?

Yes_No


10. Noise pollution during Construction and Operations. 


Will the operating noise level exceed the allowable noise limits? 


Yes_No_ 


11. Solid or liquid Wastes. 


Will the project generate solid or liquid wastes? 


Yes_ _ No_ 


If "Yes", does the project include a plan for their adequate collection and disposal? 


Yes_ _ No_ _

12. Public Consultation 


Has public consultation and participation been sought? 


Yes_ _ No_ 



                                              41
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP III APL PHASE 2 




If "Yes", describe briefly the measures taken to this effect.




                                              42 

THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO               ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


                                   SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


Annex 2: Typical Checklist to Identify Impacts and Mitigation Measures of Construction of Schools and new hostel block for
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development APL 2.
Environmental and
Social Components                                        Impacts                                        Mitigation Measures
         Physical                                                                      Rerer to Annex S.O for summary or sareguard
     Environment                                                                       policies.
 Soils                     Erosion of lands down slope from borrow areas. 
           Construction in dry season; protection ofsoil surfaces
                          .. Landslides and slips. 
                                    during construction; re-vegetanon or physical 

                                                                                        stabilization of erodable surfaces. Land restoranon 

                           Contamination from waste materials, e.g. cement and         measures . 

                        . paints, engine oils, etc.
                                                                                       Adequate protection from livestock entry by fencing the
                           Excavating borrow pits for aggregate materials (sand        site perimeters.
                          and stone) for concrete.
                                                                                       Control and dady cleaning at construction sites,
                           Cutting of stone for use on fayades.
                                                                                       Provision of adequate waste disposal services. 

                                                                                       Proper disposal of cbermcals and other hazardous 

                                                                                        materials. 

                                                                                       Dust control by water, appropriate deSign and siting,
                                                                                       restrict construcnon to certain times.
                                                                                       Appropriate and SUitable storage ofbuildlDg matenals on
                                                                                       site.


 Water Resources             Creation of stagnant water pools 
                       Special attention to drainage; prevention of erosion;
                            .. Increased sediments Into streams 
                       consideration ofalternative alignments; retention ponds;
                                                                                        proper dJ.sposal ofoil and other hazardous matenals
                            .. Clogging of drainage works 

                            .. Decline in water quality 
                              Slung of Latrines at safe dIStances from wells and usmg
                             Increase in runoff and flooding conditions 
              closed systems for sewage drainage .
                            .. Introduction of hazardous wastes 

                            .. Contamination of Wells
 Air Quality                 Dust during construction                                 Dust control by water or other means. 

                                                                                       Ensure deSigns inc_orporate large wmdows covered by 





                                                                   43
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                  ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL. MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


                                     SECOND EDUCAllON SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


                              Poor air circulation/quality in classrooms.                long overhangmg roofs. Position windows for natural
                                                                                          cross ventilation. Use appropriate roofing matenals
                                                                                          with suitable insulation.
 Acoustic Environment         Noise disturbance                                         Restrict construction to certatn hours
     Bio-physical                                                                        Refer to Annex 5.0 for summary of safeguard
     Environment                                                                         policies.
 Natural Habitats             Disturbance of natural habitats                           Consideratlon of alternative alignments or sites
                              ,Disturbance to protected areas                            (especiaUy for new .sohools)

 Fauna and Flora              Disruption or destruction of wildlife                     Mnumize loss of natural vegetatton dunng construction;
                              Threats to rare and endangered species                     alternattve sites, various special measures for sensitive
                                                                                          species
Social Environment                                                                       Refer to Annex 5.0 for summary of safeguard
                                                                                         policies.
 Aesthettcs and Landscape     Marred landscapes                                         Restoration of vegetation; cleanup of construction Sites
                              Debris
 Historical/Cultural Sites    Degradation of sites                                      Alternative ahgnments and/or sites
                              Disturbance to structures                                 Special measures to protect cultural hentage sites

 Human Health                 Transport of hazardous substances                         Regulation of transport of matenals
                                                                                         Safety deSigns (signage)
                              Traffic accidents
                                                                                         Ensure availability of clean potable water for use in
                              Pedestrian accidents                                       latrines, canteens and for drmkmg.
                              Personal hygiene of students and teachers.                Use of appropriate budding rnatenals. No asbestos etc.
 Human Communittes            Involuntary resettlement                                  Prepare Resettlement and Compensation Plans
                              Loss of crops, buildings, property, or economic            consistent with disclosed RPF as per OP 4.12
                               livelihood




                                                                       44
"HE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO             ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


          SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2




                                     Annex 3.0 


  Draft Terms of Reference for the Preparation of an Environmental and 

   Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) for the MoE Head Office Building. 



  1.  Review the biophysical characteristics of the planned location of the
      headquarters building.
  2.  Assess the potential environmental and social impacts due to the construction of
      the headquarters building and propose appropriate mitigation measures.
  3.  Propose measures to handle construction-related wastes effectively.
  4.  Review the national environmental and social policies, legislation, regulatory and
      administrative frameworks in conjunction with the World Bank's safeguard
      policies, and make recommendations accordingly.
  5.  Assess the existing environmental management and assessment capacity as
      well as the capacity to implement the proposed mitigation measures, and make
      recommendations as appropriate, including potential capacity building and
      training needs and their costs.
  6.  Propose institutional arrangements for environmental management, including
      monitoring indicators, and a costed monitoring plan as appropriate.
  7.  Prepare an Environmental Mitigation Plan and suggest a few monitoring
      indicators.




                                          45
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO              ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECOND EQUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2


Annex 4.0

lists of Key Individuals I Firms Contacted


MoE -         Director of Planning
MoE -         Chief Education Officer
PSCU -        Proje~t Coordinator, Dr. Kinandu Muragu
PSCU ..       Finallcial Controller, Puseletso Ntiisa-letuka
EFU -         Facilities Design Manager, Mr. Mokete K. Mokete
EFU -         Contracts Adviser
EFU -         Contracts Manager
EFU -         Spechtl Services Manager, Mr. Ekabang Koma
EFU    w      Educ,tion Officer -Mr. Hape Moeketsi
EFU          Systems- Ms. Motseng Maema
NES           Prlnc:ipal Environment Officer, EIA, Ms. Bernice Puling
TTl           Acting Director General, Mr. Sello Lenkoane
Supervisor of Government Schools ... Skhulumi Ntsodole
Education Officer             Thaba Tseka District, Mr. Motlatsi Mosoang
Ma Tlhakanelo Tlhakanelo Moshoeshoe ... Chief of Masite Hatlhakanelo
Matlaselo Tumo                Chief of Maseqobela
Chief of Senyotong
Kankelesoe Letsie .. Chief of Mohlakeng
Mamakhothatsa Kibi ... Principal, Mohlakeng Primary school
Maposholi Posholi .... Principal. Mosotho Primary School
Matsoeberane Noke> - Head Teacher, Mosletoa Primary School
Khatlisi Khatlisi - Teacher. Mosletoa Primary School
Malefu Makhaola ..,. Teacher, Mosletoa Primary School
Relbone Makula - Teacher, Mosletoa Primary School
Mabatho Mohapi ... Head Teacher, Tsepo Primary School

Parents and other members of Local Communities at various Primary School
sites.




                                           46
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                   ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


             SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APl PHASE 2


                                Annex 5.0
            World Bank Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies
                                 Summary
                                              \
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01). Outlines Bank policy and procedure for the
     environmental assessment of Bank lending operations. The Bank undertakes
     environmental screening of each proposed project to determine the appropriate
     extent and type of EA process. This environmental screening process will apply to all
     sub-projects to be funded by ESOP II.
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04). The conservation of natural habitats, like other
     measures that protect and enhance the environment, is essential for long-term
    sustainable development. The Bank does not support projects involving the
    significant conversion of natural habitats unless there are no feasible alternatives for
    the project and its siting, and comprehensive analysis demonstrates that overall
     benefits from the project substantially outweigh the environmental costs. If the
    environmental assessment indicates that a project would significantly convert or
    degrade natural habitats, the project includes mitigation measUres acceptable to the
    Bank. Such mitigation measures include, as appropriate, minimizing habitat loss (e.g.
    strategic habitat retention and post-development restoration) and establishing and
     maintaining an ecologically similar protected area. The Bank accepts other forms of
     mitigation measures only when they are technically justified. Should the sub-project
    specific EAs indicate that natural habitats might be affected negatively by the
     proposed sub-project activities, such sub-projects will not be funded under the ESOP
     II project..
    Pest Management (OP 4.09). The policy supports safe, affective, and
    environmentally sound pest management. It promotes the use of biological and
    environmental control methods. An assessment is made of the capacity of the
    country's regulatory framework and institutions to promote and support safe,
    effective, and environmentally sound pest management. This policy will most likely
    not apply to ESOP II.
   Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4. 12). This policy covers direct economic and social
    impacts that both result from Bank-assisted investment projects, and are caused by
    (a) the involuntary taking of land resulting in (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of
    assets or access to assets, or (iii) loss of income sources at means of livelihood,
    whether or not the affected persons must move to another location; or (b) the
    involuntary restriction of access to legally deSignated parks and protected areas
    resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the displaced persons. The ESMF
    report discusses the applicability of this policy in detail.
   Indigenous Peoples (00 4.20). This directive provides guidance to ensure that
    indigenous peoples benefit from development projects, and to avoid or mitigate
    adverse effects of Bank-financed development projects on indigenous peoples.
    Measures to address issues pertaining to indigenous peoples must be based on the
    informed partiCipation of the indigenous people themselves. SUb-prOjects that would
    have negative impacts on indigenous people will not be funded under ESOP II..
   Forests (OP 4.36). This policy applies to the following types of Bank-financed
    investment projects: (a) projects that have or may haye impacts on the health and
    quality of forests; (b) projects that affect the rights and welfare of people and their
    level of dependence upon or interaction with forests; and (c) projects that aim to
    bring about changes in the management. protection, or utilization of natural forests or


                                                  47
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


             SECOND EPUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP II) APL PHASE 2


    plantations, whether they are publicly, privately, or communally owned. The Bank
    does not finan~ projects that, in its opinion, would involve significant conversion or
    degradation of critical forest areas or related critical habitats. If a project involves the
    significant convE?rsion or degradation of natural forests or related natural habitats that
    the Bank determines are not critical, and the Bank determines that there are no
    feasible alternatives to the project and its siting, and comprehensive analysis
    demonstrates that overall benefits from the project substantially outweigh the
    environmental costs, the Bank may finance the project provided that it incorporates
    appropriate mitigation measures. Sub-projects that are likely to have negative
    impacts on forests will not be funded under ESDP II.
   Cultural Pro~rty (OPN 11.03). The term "cultural property" includes sites having
    archeological (prehistoric), paleontological, historical, religious, and unique natural
    values. The Bank's general policy regarding cultural property is to assist in their
    preservation, and to' seek to avoid their elimination. Specifically, the Bank (i) normally
    declines to finance projects that will Significantly damage non-replicable cultural
    property, and will assist only those projects that are sited or designed so as to
    prevent such damage; and (ii) will assist in the protection and enhancement of
    cultural properties encountered in Bank-financed projects, rather than leaving that
    protection to chance. The management of cultural property of a country is the
    responsibility of the government. The government's attention should be drawn
    specifically to what is known about the cultural property aspects of the proposed
    project site and appropriate agencies, NGOs, or university departments should be
    consulted; if there are any questions concerning cultural property in the area, a brief
    reconnaissance survey should be undertaken in the field by a specialist ESDP II will
    not fund sub-projects that will have negative impacts on cultural property.
   Safety of Dams (OP 4.37). For the life of any dam, the owner is responsible for
    ensuring that appropriate measures are taken and sufficient resources provided for
    the safety to the dam, irrespective of its funding sources or construction status. The
    Bank distinguishes between small and large dams. Small dams are normally less
    than 15 m in height; this category includes, for example, farm ponds, local silt
    retention dams, and low embankment tanks. For small dams, generic dam safety
    measures deSigned by qualified engineers are usually adequate. This policy will
    most likely not apply to ESDP II.
   Projects on International Waterways (0 7.50). The Bank recognizes that the
    cooperation and good will of riparians is essential for the efficient utilization and
    protection of intt3rnational waterways and attaches great importance to riparians
    making appropriate agreements or arrangement for the entire waterway or any part
    thereof. Projects that trigger this policy include hydroelectric, irrigation, flood control,
    navigation, drainage, water and sewerage, industrial, and similar projects that involve
    the use or potential pollution of international waterways. This policy most likely will
    not apply to ESOP II.
   Disputed Areas (OPIBPIGP 7.60). Project in disputed areas may occur the Bank
    and its member countries as well as between the borrower and one or more
    neighbouring countries. Any dispute over an area in which a proposed project is
    located requires formal procedures at the earliest possible stage. The Bank attempts
    to acquire assurance that it may proceed with a project in a disputed area jf the
    governments concerned agree that, pending the settlement of the dispute. the
    project proposed can go forward without prejudice to the claims of the country having




                                               49
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO               ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAl. MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


           SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


   a dispute. This policy is not expected to be triggered by sub-projects. This policy is
   unlikely to be triggered by sub-projects to be funded by ESDP II.




                                            49
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO               ENVIRONMENTAL. AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


            SECONO EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) APL PHASE 2


                                  Annex 6.0 

                  EA Procedures for the Headquarters Building 

Step 1: Screening

To determine the depth of EIA required, potential impacts in the following areas need to
be considered:

      Social issues
      Health issues
      Prptected and gazetted areas
      Cultural heritage, archaeological sites
      Existing natural resources such as forests, soils, wetlands, water resources
      Wildlife or endangered species' habitats

Step 2: Scoping

To identify the relevant enVironmental issues, this step determines:

      Level of detail required for the EA
      Extent of the area to be covered in light of the potential impact zones
      Timeframe for the EA based on the potential impact zones
      Sequencing and scheduling of the various EA tasks
      Preliminary budgets

Step 3: Preparation of Terms of Reference for the Headquarters Building

Based on the screening and scooping results, EA terms of reference will be prepared.
The EIA will be conducted by a consultant, and the report should have the following
format:

      Description of the study area
      Description of the pilot investment
      Description of the environment
      Legislative and regulatory considerations
      Determination of the potential impacts of the proposed pilot investments
      Public consultations process
      Development of mitigation measures and a monitoring plan, including cost
       estimates

Step 4: Review and Clearance of the EA Report

The EFU will (a) review and clear the pilot investment EIA report, and (b) inform the
public about the EA results. The EFU will be furthermore responsible for overseeing the
implementation of the EA recommendations ..




                                            50
THE GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO                 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOClAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK 



            SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESOP II) NiL PHASE 2 



                                         Annex 7.0 


                     Environmental Mitigation Plan for ESOP II 


Project          Mitigation         Implementing       Monitoring       Timing      Costs
Activities       Measures           Agencies           Responsibility
Construction     Environmental      SC for Schools     EFU              Ongoing     Included   in
of    schools,   and       social   EFU for Hostel                                  project
hostel,          screening

                 Public             SC                 EFU              TBD         Included in
                 consultations!                                                     sub-projects
                 sensitization

                 Prepare RAPs       SC!service         EFU              TBD         Included   in
                 as necessary       providers                                       project

                 Environmental      SC and EFU         EFU              Ongoing     Included   in
                 guidelines  for                                                    contract
                 contractors

               Regular          Schools, TIl   SC for Schools           Ongoing     Included   in
               maintenance of                  EFU for Hostel                       project
               water pOints &
               latrines,  solid
               waste disposal
Construction   Carry       out EA consultants! EFU                      TBD         TBD
of HQ building separate EA      Borrower
for MOE

                 Public             EA consultants! EFU                 TBD         To       be
                 consultations      Borrower                                        included in
                                                                                    project

                 Prepare RAPs       Borrower           EFU              TSD         To       be
                 as necessary                                                       included in
                                                                                    project
Training   of                       NES                EFU              TBD         $60,500
Trainers
(SCs;    EFU,
NES; service
providers)

                                                                          Total     $60,500
                                                                          Costs




                                             51
     Addendum to the Environmental and Social Management Framework

                                      Lesotho ESDP II

                                Up-date of August 8,2009



Background

During the life of the project ESPD II, Project ID: P081269, Lesotho benefited from a grant for
the Catalytic Fund (CF) of the Education for All Fast Track Initiative (EF A-FTI) Partnership.
The objectives of the Grant were in line with those of ESDP II, and in particular, the Grant was
mainly used to support construction of classrooms in existing schools. The EF A-FTI CF was in
a total amount of US$II.9 million, and it was allocated to the country in two phases. The first
phase of the grant, in a total amount ofUS7.2 million became effective in July 2006 and closed
in December 2007; the second phase, in the total amount ofUS$ 4.7 million, became effective in
December 2007 and will close by June 2010.



While implementation of infrastructure components of ESDP II and EF A-FTI CF I involved
construction of new schools, implementation of the school infrastructure component of EF A-FTI
II only involves construction and rehabilitation of classrooms in existing schools. ESDP II,
phase II ICR considers that although construction of new schools, new facilities for MoET, and
new facilities for the Lesotho College of Education in the district of Thaba-Tseka took place,
none involved resettlement of people and no environmental issues were raised in the course of
the project. The Integrated Safeguards Datasheet (lSDS) was updated accordingly, and detailed
information on ESDP II and EF A-FTI CF I and II can be found in it.



EFA-FTI III

An application to a third grant from the Education for All Fast Track Initiative Partnership is
being prepared. This regards to a new project, project ID: P116426. An ISDS was prepared for
this project. In preparation of the PAD a social safeguards assessment took place, and its results
are incorporated in the PAD.

The project proposes the following components:

Component 1: Improved facilities in primary schools

This component will provide an additional 1,000 primary and pre-primary classrooms at existing
schools, rehabilitate at least a further 400 classrooms, and provide furniture for at least 1,400

                                                                                                 1
classrooms. The capacity to construct will be increased by building on existing sites, making
greater use of smaller contractors, and subcontracting of the work of technical supervision of
civil works.



Component 2: Expanded pre-primary education

This component will provide support for the Government's aim to expand access to reception
classes for the poorest children, through the provision of support for the operating costs of 150
additional reception classes, with a capacity of 6,000 children. This expansion will include an
additional 10% of the age 5 population in reception classes, bringing the GER for reception
classes from 8% to 18%.



Component 3: Quality support measures

This component will support the Government plans to improve learning outcomes in primary
schools through (i) conducting analytical work to understand the conditions of teaching and learning
through classroom-based observation, skills profiles and training needs, and assessment of student
outcomes measurement; (ii) assisting in attracting more qualified teachers to 'difficult schools'
(these are schools located in the most remote and difficult to access areas of the country); (iii)
providing additional in-service teacher training aimed at improving on literacy and numeracy
teaching; and (iv) providing textbooks in core subjects and grades where there are deficits.
Books will be procured through competitive bidding, on the basis of one book per child, and
distributed through the School Supply Unit using established procedures.



Component 1 involves the development of school infrastructure. Unlike ESDP II and EFA-FTI
CF I, no new schools will be constructed. All construction, as is the case for EFA-FTI II will
take place in existing schools. In this sense, OP 4.12 is not triggered because there will not be any
involuntary land acquisition. The choice of schools has already been made by the Ministry of
Education and Training. The choice criteria are based on the infrastructure conditions of the
school and the number of students. Schools have been chosen from all the 10 districts in the
country.



Implementation of ESMF

Implementation of ESMF will be carried out with funds made available in by the project in
component 1. These funds cover necessary training which is expected to be carried out in
association to other training regarding issues of infrastructure development.

                                                                                                   2
