RESTRICTED
Report No.   PA-4Za
This report was prepared for uso within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for jts accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTIERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
FLUE-CURED TOBACCO PROJECT
TANZANIA
September 16, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



CURatENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1            -   Tan2ania Shillings (T Sh) 7.14
T Sh 1               US$ 0.14
1 Xillion T Sh   -  US$ 140,000
W5MHT AND MASURIES
(British 9ystem)
1 acre (ac)             -   0.405 hectare
1 inch (in)             a   2.54 centimeters
I mile (mi)             -   1,609 meters
1 squazm mile (sq mi)  -   2.59 square kilometers
1 pound (lb)            -   0.454 kilogram
2,204.6 pounds         -   1 metric ton
ABBREVIATIONS
NDCA:  National Development Credit Agency
TTB:   Tanganyika Tobacco Board
TTPC: Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company



TANZANIA
FLUE-CURED TOBACCO PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................................            i
I.     INTRODUCTION .........         ...................................    I
II.    BACKGROUND ..........        ....................................     1
A.  Agriculture .........................................            1
B.  The Tobacco Sector ..................................            2
C.  Tobacco Development Policy ..........................            3
III. THE PROJECT AREA .4
A. Location and Transportation.                                      4
B. Climate, Soils and Vegetation.                                    4
C. Population and Land Tenure.                                       4
D. Production of Flue-Cured Tobacco.                                 5
IV.    THE PROJECT .........        ....................................     5
A.  Project Definition .......................,.,                    5
B. Field Development .                                               6
C.  Storage, Auction and Processing Facilities .... ......    10
D.  Cost Estimates ......................................    12
E.  Proposed Financing ..................................    13
V.     ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................    15
A.  General .........        ....................................    15
B.  Field Staff, Research and Training ....          ..............    16
C.  Marketing and Processing ............................    17
D.  National Development Credit Agency ....          ..............    19
E.  Cooperatives .........................                          22
F. Accounts and Audit .23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to
Tanzania in October/November 1969, composed of Messrs. S. D. Eccles,
R. J. Dewar, J. Willems (IDA) and G. R. Henderson (Consultant). 1Mr.
Hassid (IDA) contributed materially concerning credit aspects.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS ....    .........   23
A. Yields and Production ...............................   23
B.   Markets  and  Prices   ..................................  24
C. Financial Results ....................................   25
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION       ..27
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS ....................... , .........   28
iNNEXES
1. Types of Tobacco and Production Methods
2. Organization Chart
3. Project Phasing
4. Project Costs
5. Disbursement Schedule
6. Balance Sheets - Tanganyika Tobacco Board and Tanzania Tobacco
Processing Company
7. The National Development Credit Agency (NDCA)
8. Marketing Prospects for Flue-Cured Tobacco
9. Farm Price Calculations
10. Farm Budget
11. Government, NDCA and Tobacco Board Cash Flow Projections
12. Economic Rate of Return Calculation and Sensitivity Analysis
MAP



TANZANIA
FLUE-CURED TOBACCO PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project to increase production of flue-
cured tobacco by some 20 million lb by 1978, when total production is ex-
pected to reach some 45 million lb. A credit of US$ 9.0 million is pro-
posed to cover some 60% of project costs over the six years 1970/71-1975/
76 which are estimated at US$ 14.7 million, of which US$ 7.4 million
would be in foreign exchange. In the three years following disbursement
of the credit, additional investments of some US$ 1.6 million, financed
within Tanzania, would be needed to bring the project to full development.
ii.       Agricultural exports amount to about 80% of total exports of about
US$ 225 million, with cotton, coffee and sisal the most important; fluctua-
tions in the prices of these crops stress the necessity to diversify produc-
tion. The project would increase the value of flue-cured tobacco exports by
some US$ 11.5 million by 1978, and would yield an estimated economic rate of
return of about 30%.
iii.      The main components of the project are:
(a) an increase in the number of small farmers growing
tobacco from 15,000 to 30,000 in 150 new village
communities and cultivating, when settlement is
complete, 30,000 additional acres of tobacco;
(b) seasonal and medium term credit facilities, for
farm inputs and the construction of curing barns
and grading sheds;
(c) a road access system, a reliable water supply for
both domestic and farm use, and a baling shed for
each village;
(d) establishment of a project organization and an
adequate extension service; and
(e) introduction of a system of tobacco auctions and
construction of auction floors and additional to-
bacco storage and processing facilities.
iv.       The project would be situated in woodland areas of western Tan-
zania where alternative development possibilities are presently negligible.
Some 15 cooperative societies, each with about 1,000 farmers and with train-
ed cooperative staff to assist in their management, would be established to
act as channels for farm credit and distribution of inputs, and to super-
vise baling. Extension staff would assist farmers in improving methods of
cultivation and systems of tobacco curing, leading to higher yields of bet-
ter quality tobacco.



v.        Processing is carried out by the Tanzania Tobacco Processing Com-
pany (TTPC) under the control of the Tanganyika Tobacco Board (TTB), which
is responsible for marketing. The project includes a survey to determine
the slze and timing of construction of the auction sales floor and addition-
al storage and processing facilities, and to investigate the organizat4onal
implications of the introduction of the auction system.  Withdrawal of
USS 1.5 million of the proposed credit for the construction of these facil-
ities would be contingent on the result of this survey.
vi.       Funds disbursed from the proposed credit for use by farmers, co-
operative societies, TTB and TTPC would be channeled through the National
Development Credit Agency (NDCA), a parastatal body.  NDCA's performance
in the flue-cured tobacco sector to date has been satisfactory, while its
overall performance has only been fair. NDCA is executing agency for IDA
Credit 80-TA (US$ 5 million) of 1966, the only financial assistance aiven
to the agriculture sector in Tanzania by the Bank or IDA other than IDA
Credit 132-TA (US$ 1.3 million) of 1969, which was for the development of
cattle ranches. NDCA will be re-formed into a Rural Development Bank in
the near future; discussions between Government and IDA are in progress
and the proposed re-formation should not adversely affect the project.
vii.      Other funds disbursed from the proposed credit would be used
directly by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives which has
overall responsibility for the project. Project coordinating committees
would be established at both national and regional levels.
viii.     Procurement of farm inputs, Government vehicles and most process-
ing machinery and the letting of major civil works contracts would follow
international competitive bidding procedures. Minor civil works would be
procured following local bidding. Machinery for expansion of an existing
processing line would be procured on the basis of negotiated contracts.
ix.       World demand for tobacco is rising at about 2% per annum and sanc-
tions against Rhodesia have provided an opportunity for the smaller producers
of leaf of a satisfactory quality, such as Tanzania, to expand production to
enter the international market. Tanzania's share of world flue-cured tobacco
exports in 1969 was about 2% (13 million lb); it is expected to rise to about
4% (42 million lb) by 1978. The project would account for almost 70% of this
increase.
x.        The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$ 9.0 million.  The
balance of finance would be provided by Government, from budgetary sources
(US$4.8 million), and by the Tanganyika Tobacco Board, from trading surpluses
(US$ 0.9 million).



TANZANIA
FLUE-CURED TOBACCO PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Tanzania has requested an IDA credit to help
finance flue-cured tobacco development. The project includes the estab-
lishment of some 15,000 new growers under a 5 year settlement program,
the planting of some 30,000 acres of tobacco, the introduction of an auc-
tion marketing system, and the extension of processing and storage facil-
ities. The project was prepared by the Government in 1968/9, with assis-
tance from the Bank's Permanent Mission in East Africa and the Agricultur-
al Development Service. This appraisal report is based on the prepation
report and the findings of a mission to Tanzania in October/November 1969,
composed of Messrs. S. D. Eccles, R. J. Dewar, J. Willems (IDA) and G. R.
Henderson (Consultant). Mr. M. Hassid (IDA) contributed materially con-
cerning credit aspects.
1.02      Previous IDA credits to Tanzania for agriculture have been US$5
million in 1966 for a smallholder credit project (Credit 80-TA) and
US$1.3 million in 1969 for the development of five government-owned beef
cattle ranches (Credit 132-TA). Performance under the credit project has
only been fair, although there have been recent improvements. The execu-
ting agent is the National Development Credit Agency (NDCA), which would
act as the credit channel for the presently proposed project and whose
performance is analysed further in Chapter V. The livestock project is
developing satisfactorily, although there have been delays caused by a
change in the constitution of the financial channel (National Development
Corporation) and in obtaining long-term leases for the land for some of
the ranches.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Agriculture
2.01      Mainland Tanzania has a land area of 341,150 sq mi and a variety
of ecological and climatic conditions. The country has a few principal
regions: the coastal belt (sisal and cashew nuts); a fertile belt around
Lake Victoria (cotton, tea and coffee); an area around Mount Kilimanjaro
(coffee); and the Southern Highlands (tea and pyrethrum). The remainder
comprises "miombo" woodland with little known economic development poten-
tial apart from tobacco cultivation and cattle rangeland. Most of the po-
pulation of about 13 million, which is increasing at about 2.7% per annum,
live at subsistence levels with national income per capita about US$ 62.



2.02      Tanzania's economy depends mainly on agriculture:  it accounts for
about 50% of GDP, generates about 80% of exports totalling US$ 225 million
per annum and provides a livelihood for about 90% of the population. Per-
formance of the agricultural sector over the period 1960-68 has been impres-
sive but uneven, in terms both of commodities and geographical location.
Tobacco exports grew at about 18%, pyrethrum at 16%, cashews at 13Z, coffee
and tea at 10% and cotton at 6%. Sisal production declined by 6. by weight,
but its export value in 1968 was only slightly more than one-half of the
1960/62 average. Tanzanian strategy for the sector is to concentrate scarce
resources, such as skilled manpower, into crops or areas of high potential;
and to encourage the rural population to live in villages, as an efficient
means of providing social and technical services while encouraging coopera-
tive effort and self-help. The project fits in well with this overall strat-
egy.
B. The Tobacco Sector
2.03      Flue-cured tobacco growing was started in the early 1950's mainly
by expatriates. Information on flue-cured tobacco and production methods is
given in Annex 1. Until Rhodesia's unilateral declaration of independence
in 1965, the crop was sold for local cigarette manufacture, but thereafter
export markets opened up and production rose sharply to an anticipated 17
million lb by 1970. Exports in 1968 worth some T Sh 30 million (US$ 4 mil-
lion) accounted for about 2% of the national total. Production is concen-
trated in the miombo woodland of the Tabora and Mbeya Regions (see Map) -
the project area - and the Iringa Region, where woodfuel availability will
limit further development for some time. Government has also started a pi-
lot program in the Tunduru District.
2.04      This expansion has been largely brought about by Government pro-
grams to help small farmers, such as settlement and supervised seasonal
credit, and about 75% of the crop is now produced by some 15,000 family
farms. Seasonal credit arrangements - through cooperatives with funds ob-
tained from the National Development Credit Agency, or through the now de-
funct Ministry of Settlement - have been generally satisfactory, in regards
to both timely delivery of inputs and loan recovery, now that the latter is
effected by deductions from sales proceeds. However, lack of planning has
often led to tobacco growing areas being located without adequate fuelwood
reserves, and some farmers are already being forced to move to new land.
The intensity and quality of technical advisory services has been very var-
ied, contributing to sub-optimum yields and losses in handling, curing,
grading and baling. These losses have been exacerbated by the lack of
medium-term credit to assist farmers in constructing weather-proof grading
sheds.
2.05      Fire-cured tobacco, details of which are given in Annex 1, is also
produced in Tanzania but quantities are relatively small with 1968 produc-
tion valued at about T Sh 5 million (US$ 0.7 million). Aromatic tobacco was
grown in Tanzania until 1968 when production ceased due to quality and mar-
keting difficulties.



2.06      Marketing of all tobacco is the monopoly of the Tanganyika To-
bacco Board (TTB) described in Chapter V. Two different expatriate com-
panies are currently used for export sales of flue-cured and fire-cured
tobacco, respectively, while TTB itself handles sales to BAT (Tanzania)
Ltd., a Darastatal body which has a monopoly of local cigarette produc-
tion.
C. Tobacco Development Policy
2.07      Government policy is to take advantage of the present world mar-
ket situation for flue-cured tobacco, and the good quality and competitive
cost of Tanzanian production, to more than double national production by
the late 1970's through increased production by small farmers. In carry-
ing out this policy, Government intends to take full account of the lessons
learnt over the past five years. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Co-
operatives has thus assumed sole responsibility for all tobacco development
and would provide an intensified supervisory service aimed at improving
methods of cultivation, grading, curing and baling.  Development would be
concentrated in new villages where common services can be provided at mini-
mum costs and adequate fuel wood reserves can be set aside.  Farmers would
be provided with medium term credit to build more adequate barns and grad-
ing sheds, as well as the currently available seasonal credit, but would
only be assisted to develop a tobacco acreage that could be handled with-
out reliance on hired labor i.e. about two acres per farmer.
2.08      The Government also intends to follow the principles of the 1967
Arusha Declaration, in which the Government party, the Tanganyika African
National Union (TANU), formulated its development strategy, and develop the
traditional African system of group cooperation (the "Ujamaa" or "extended
family" principle), rather than concentrate on individual entrepreneurs.
This involves giving priority assistance to those groups of small farmers
who demonstrate self-reliance and a capacity for self-help and who engage
in communal development activity such as road and school construction. The
principle appears to be well understood and acceptable to the rural popula-
tion, partly because of the effective decentralization of responsibility
for the carrying out of development programs to the Regional Commissioners -
Presidential representatives with wide powers within the framework of na-
tional policy established by the central Government.
2.09      New tobacco growers would be settled in Ujamaa villages.  In its
most developed form, an Ujamaa village would be a complete production coop-
erative. A typical intermediate form would involve cultivation of a single
large block of land, but with each farmer responsible for a particular part
of it. This intermediate form - which is expected to be followed by most
project villages - makes it easier for the technical extension services, for
transportation of inputs and crop, and for any communal work that might be
agreed on, while at the same time leaving the villagers with a suitable de-
gree of individual responsibility. In its least developed form, villagers
would continue to cultivate individually but would get together, for example,



- 4 -
to construct a school or a dispensary or to maintain the local roads. The
Government is not forcing the pace, however, and encourages each village to
find its own level. The Government rewards progress by arranging for water
supplies, medical and school facilities and improved access roads for vil-
lages which show a cooperative and self-reliant attitude.
IlI. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location and Transj?ortation
3.01      The project is located in the woodland areas of western Tanzania,
in the Tabora and Mpanda Districts of the Tabora Region and the Chunya Dis-
trict of the Mbeya Region. The towns of Tabora and Mpanda are linked by
rail to Morogoro, where the processing facilities are situated, and to the
port of Dar es Salaam. The town of Chunya is linked to Morogoro and Dar
es Salaam via an East African Railways road/rail service operating through
Itigi on the Morogoro-Tabora rail line. Tabora, which will be the site of
project headquarters, is also linked to Chunya and Mpanda by road. East
African Airways operate regular services from Dar es Salaam to Tabora and
Mbeya (some 50 miles from Chunya); and Morogoro, Chunya and Mpanda have
airstrips used by charter flights.
B. Climate, Soils and Vegetation
3.02      Rainfall in the project area ranges between 29 and 50 in per an-
num, which together with light, sandy soils make ideal conditions for tobac-
co production. Vegetation consists of open "miombo" woodland, characterized
by Brachystegia and Julbernadia tree species, and containing few trees of
value except "muninga" (Pterocarpus angolensis), an excellent furniture tim-
ber. The miombo woodland is infested with tsetse fly. Cattle do not there-
fore play any significant role, and development, other than for tobacco pro-
duction, has been confined to exploitation of muninga and the collection of
honey and beeswax.
C. Population and Land Tenure
3.03      Population densities are very low ranging from about two persons/
sq mi in Mpanda, to about five in Chunya and eight in Tabora. There is no
pressure on land and no problems are anticipated in this regard for settle-
ment. Land in the project area, whether occupied or unoccupied, is public
land and is held by its occupants under a traditional system of usufruct.
Under customary law land is allocated to individual farmers by village el-
ders who also have the power to cancel rights of occupancy in the event of
failure to comply with any conditions pertaining to the use of land. In an



Ujumaa village settlement program the powers of elders would be assumed by
the village cooperative committee. Past experience has shown that this sys-
tem of control can be effective.
D. Production of Flue-Cured Tobacco
3.04      In 1969 Tabora District produced 7.8 million lb of flue-cured to-
bacco, Mpanda District 1.5 million lb and Chunya District 0.2 million lb.
Farmers are organized into cooperatives, through which inputs are distrib-
uted on credit. In each village there is a cooperative baling center, at
which the Tanganyika Tobacco Board classifies and purchases the crop.
3.05      Tobacco is grown in a five-year rotation alternating with a food
crop (mainly maize) and fallow. Tobacco seed is obtained from the Research
Station at Tumbi, near Tabora, and sown in beds in September. Seedlings
are transplanted into the field at the beginning of the rains in November.
Harvesting starts in February and is completed by March. Seed beds are fu-
migated and receive applications of fertilizer and pesticides; after trans-
planting a compound fertilizer is applied in the field. Nitrogenous fertil-
izers are commonly used on maize.
3.06      The average farmer produces a crop with a potential yield of about
1,000 lb of wet, cured leaf Der acre but an analysis of harvesting, curing
and subseqtuent grading has shown that the average small farmer loses about
10% of his crop in the field due to lack of barn capacity, about 10% in the
barn through poor curing techniques, and another 25% in inefficient bulking
and grading operations, mainly because of leaking roofs and poor construction
(or non-existence) of his grading shed. Consequently the average small
farmer produces only between 550 and 600 lb/acre of saleable tobacco. These
yields compare to those of larger commercial farms in the Iringa Region now
averaging just under 1,000 lb/acre and the national average of 572 lb in
1967/68 and 640 lb in 1969/70.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.  Pr
4.01       The project forms part of the Government of Tanzania's flue-cured
tobacco development program, over 1970/71 - 1975/76, in the Tabora, Mpanda
and Chunya Districts (see Map). It involves:
-    settlement of about 15,000 farmers, over 1970/71-1974/75, in
about 150 Ujamaa villages, arranged in complexes of about 10
villages each, with each farmer cultivating 1 ac of tobacco
in his first year and 2 ac thereafter;



-    establishment of cooperatives, at the rate of about one per
complex of 10 villages, to supervise the baling of cured to-
bacco and to handle the distribution of credit for on-farm
seasonal inputs, curing barns and grading sheds;
-    construction of communal infrastructure, including some 225
mi of extraction roads, some 750 mi of access tracks, vil-
lage water supplies and baling centers:
-    establishment of a "Tobacco Project Group" within the Min-
istry of Agriculture to plan and manage the project; pro-
vision of extension services for farmers and cooperatives,
staff for the Tumbi Research Station, a Chief Marketing Of-
ficer and a Chief Accountant for the Tanganyika Tobacco
Board, a Financial Analyst for the National Development
Credit Agency and related infrastructure, housing, vehicles
and equipment;
-    carrying out a tobacco marketing and handling study and con-
struction of auction floors, additional storage and process-
ing facilities;
-    aerial survey of parts of the project area.
In addition, project farmers would build their own houses and establish
subsistence gardens, and would engage communally in the building of dis-
pensaries and schools.
4.02      The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives would have
overall responsibility for the project and would execute its field aspects.
The National Development Credit Agency would provide credit through the co-
operative movement. Processing would be carried out by the Tanzania Tobac-
co Processing Company, under the control of the Tanganyika Tobacco Board,
which handles all marketing. These institutions, and means of coordinating
their activities, are described in Chapter V 'Organization and Management".
An Organization Chart appears at Annex 2.
B.  Field Development
Phasing
4.03      Development of villages and complexes, settlement of farmers and
incremental planting of tobacco would be phased approximately as follows:



- 7 -
1970/71 1971/72 1972/73 1973/74 1974/75 1975/76 1976/77 Total
Complexes
established /        3        6       4        2      -        -       -       15
Villages                        I
established /2      18       33      33       33      33       -       -      150
Farmers
settled          1,800   3,300   3,300   3,300   3,300         -       -  15,000
Incremental
tobacco
acreage             -    1,800   5,100   6,600   6,600   6,600   3,300 30,000
/1   Planning of the layout of the complex of about 10 villages, construc-
tion of crop extraction roads and complex headquarter buildings, staf-
fing of complex headquarters and establishment of the cooperative.
/2   Planning and demarcation of each village within the complex, construc-
tion of access tracks, water supply, extension service house and baling
center.
This phasing takes into account the availability of extension service staff
and the capacity of project planning staff. Settler availability is not ex-
pected to be a constraint, nor is the capacity of the marketing system. De-
velopment would be approximately equally divided between Tabora, Mpanda and
Chunya Districts, see Annex 3.
4.04      Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that no farmer
would be allowed to grow more than two acres of tobacco in any year unless
the complex field officer has satisfied himself that the farmer could han-
dle the increased crop; that no non-project flue-cured tobacco development,
other than completion or improvement of existing schemes, would be carried
out in the project area; and that the annual targets for settlement of new
farmers on project schemes would not be increased unless Government can
provide all the necessary additional services, with any such increases
beyond 20% requiring IDA's prior approval.
Complex and Village Planning
4.05      Complex and village planning would be carried out by survey and
planning staff, whose equipment, vehicles and operating costs would be fi-
nanced under the project. Parts of the project area have already been
aerial photographed, but some additional aerial survey work would need to
be done by an experienced commercial firm under contract. Planning, in-
cluding aerial surveys, is expected to start prior to loan signature.



-8-
4.06      Villages would normally accommodate about 100 farmers, a conve-
nient number for services and giving a manageable village size of some 8
sq mi. Each village would encompass about 50 ac per farmer, including 10
ac of arable land suitable for tobacco (i.e. 1,000 ac per village), 30 ac
of mature woodland to provide fuelwood for the curing barns and an average
of 10 ac of non-arable land, such as rocky outcrops. The arable land
would be farmed in the rotation pattern described in para 4.12. Adequate
land is available and no particular difficulty is foreseen in locating com-
plexes, each of about 10 villages, within a reasonable distance of water
supply and existing roads.
4.07      Present techniques of curing, and the type of barns currently in
use, make inefficient use of fuelwood. At present, production from one
acre of mature woodland is required to cure an acre of tobacco; the 30 ac
of woodland set aside per farmer would therefore only be sufficient for 15
vears. However, it is anticipated that within five years, experimentation
would lead to improvements in barn design and curing techniques, which would
reduce wood fuel consumption, and to the establishment of small blocks of
high-yielding fuelwood plantations. The experimentation program would be fi-
nanced under the project (see para 4.16).
Infrastructure
4.08      Government would provide each village with a water supply for
domestic and seedbed needs, access tracks and crop extraction roads. De-
pending on location, the water supply would be a shallow well, borehole
or 'charco" (small dam). The cheapest adequate supply (shallow well)
would be used wherever possible as these can be constructed largely by
self-help means. On average, about 5 mi of access tracks for each village
and about 15 mi of crop extraction roads for each complex would be needed
to link up with the existing road network. An Earth Moving Unit consist-
ing of a crawler tractor, motor grader, five-ton truck, personnel vehicles
and two caravans would be attached to project headquarters. It would have
the capacity to construct all the necessary roads and up to 30 charcos.
The necessary equlinent and experience for drilling boreholes is available
locally. Maintenance of roads and water supplies would be organized on a
self-help basis.
4.09      Government would build houses and related buildings for its staff,
make available vehicles at the village and complex level and provide each
village with a simple baling shed for use by farmers under the control of
the cooperative. Vehicles, both personnel and load carrying, would be pro-
vided, and the latter would be available for hire by farmers through their
cooperatives. As each cooperative became well established, however, it
would be encouraged to purchase and operate its own vehicles (see para. 5.19).
4.10      One acre of land in a central block would be allocated to each
family and, in the first year of settlement, each farmer would construct
his house, his grading shed and his first curing barn. A further two
curing barns would be constructed in the following two years. The house
would be completed without cash expenditure, but the grading shed would



need a corrugated iron roof (with some corrugated perspex sheets for
natural lighting) and a concrete floor to give the farmer a satisfactory
place to sort and grade his leaf without the considerable losses through
dampness and incorrect grading which are now prevalent (see para 3.06).
Each curing barn would need galvanized sheeting for flue-pipes and a barn
thermometer. These cash expenditure items amount to about T Sh 1,280
(US$ 179) per farm. As a result of the proposed experimentation on barn
design and curing techniques (see para. 4.16), smaller numbers of larger
barns might become the rule during development of the project; and some
villages may elect to construct communal, rather than individual, grading
sheds.
4.11      Farmers could be expected to construct a dispensary and a school
room at an early stage of each village settlement, on the basis of self-
help. In accordance with the policy described in para 2.09, Government
would then be prepared to provide a nurse and a school teacher. No finance
for these items is included in the project.
Village Settlement and Farming
4.12      Most villages would probably assume an intermediate form of the
Ujamaa village concept, as described in para 2.09. Each year, the coop-
erative would select sites for seed beds and the 200 acre block on which
the tobacco would be grown; within these each farm family would be allo-
cated a seed bed and two acres for tobacco (one acre in the first year).
The 200 acre block would'be selected from the 1,000 acres of arable land
allocated to the village and farmed on a 5-year rotation, with a maize
crop in the second (and sometimes third) year and with a period of fallow
before a second tobacco crop is grown.
4.13      No problems are envisaged in obtaining adequate numbers of suit-
able project participants. With the advent of tobacco growing in recent
years there has been some shift of local population to suitable growing
areas, and also an increasing influx of people, both as new growers and
laborers - many of whom become growers - from other parts of the country.
It is anticipated that this trend will continue. The project should prove
attractive to people now living in overcrowded areas, such as around
Tukuyu and Kilimanjaro, and to labor now unemployed due to the closure of
sisal estates. No formal selection procedures would be used, it being as-
sumed that persons prepared to move on their own account would have the
basic qualities needed.
Seasonal Production Credits
4.14      Project participants would obtain seasonal production credit of
about T Sh 385 (US$ 54) per acre of tobacco. This would be distributed
in kind, comprising a seed pack containing seed bed fumigants, fertilizers
and insecticides; compound fertilizer and insecticides for tobacco; nitro-
genous fertilizer for maize; and flue-pipe replacements for curing barns.
In addition, cooperatives would receive seasonal credit of about T Sh 35



- 10 -
(US$ 5) per acre of tobacco to meet baling costs. Project costs include
provision only for incremental increases in the level of seasonal credits.
Project Administration and Extension Staff
4.15      Experience in Tanzania and elsewhere indicates that it takes at
least five years of concentrated attention by Government administrative
and extension staff to ensure the success of a settlement scheme, particu-
larly one based on a non-traditional crop. The costs of administrative
and extension services have therefore been considered as investment costs
for the initial five-year period for each settlement.
Research and Training
4.16      While research results from other countries have been adequate
for Tanzania's needs in the past, and would continue to be so for the im-
mediate future, research programs directed at Tanzania's specific problems
should now be implemented. Under the project, a Government Tobacco Re-
search Station would be established at Tumbi on land owned by Government
and partially developed. The Station would be staffed with five research
officers and equipped with houses, laboratories and equipment. An outline
research program would be submitted for IDA's approval within one year of
credit signature. This program would be concerned primarily with practical
investigations, including: husbandry techniques; rotations; pest control;
varieties - in particular low nicotine varieties; barn design and curing
techniques, especially the efficiency of different fuels; fuelwood species
trials; and the testing of other cash and food crops for introduction into
tobacco growing areas. Training facilities would also be developed at Tumbi
under the project, including accommodation for project staff to attend short
courses in tobacco production.
C. Storage, Auction and Processing Facilities
4.17      The project would include a study of the storage, auction and
processing facilities needed to handle the increased production that would
result from Tanzania's flue-cured tobacco development program. The study
is expected to start prior to loan signature. It would cover the determin-
ation of the capacities and locations of needed storage, auction, and pro-
cessing facilities; the production of preliminary designs and cost esti-
mates for these facilities, together with schedules for their construction;
and the organization, managerial, and training arrangements for their ef-
fective operation. The study would be conducted by a team whose members,
terms of reference and conditions of employment would be subject to IDA's
approval. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the team's
findings and recommendations would be discussed promptly with IDA and
would not be implemented until agreement thereon is reached with IDA.



- 11 -
Storage
4.18      The Tanganyika Tobacco Board (TTB) has the use of facilities for
storing 4 million lb of wet, cured tobacco in the project area, while the
Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company (TTPC) can store a further 6 million
lb at its processing facilities in Morogoro. It has been tentatively esti-
mated that additional storage for 5 million lb may be needed both in the
project area and at Morogoro. Provision of T Sh 6.0 million (US$0.8 mil-
lion) has been made in project costs for its construction.
Processing
4.19      Processing involves bulking, in a blend specified by the buyer,
of various grades of wet, cured leaf tobacco; redrying; machine threshing
to remove the lamina of the leaf from the stem; and packing. TTPC's pre-
sent plant at Morogoro has a monthly capacity of 2.5 million lb of wet,
cured leaf and is barely adequate to cope with current production. Pro-
vision of T Sh 4.0 million (US$ 0.6 million) is made under the project
for doubling the present facilities by March 1971. Preliminary estimates
indicate that an expansion to 10 million lb/month would be required by
1973, and provision of a further T Sh 10.0 million (US$ 1.4 million) has
been made in project costs.
Auction Floor
4.20      Tanzania's expected production in 1970 of about 20 million lb of
wet, cured leaf is probably approaching the maximum that can be graded,
classified and marketed efficiently through an agency arrangement such as
is performed by the Trans-Continental Leaf Tobacco Corporation on behalf
of TTB (see para 5.06). The anticipated more than doubling of national
tobacco production by 1978 makes an alternative to these arrangements es-
sential. The alternative is to shift more responsibility to growers and
the cooperatives for the satisfactory grading and baling of their leaf and
for them to offer it for sale on their own account at an open auction at-
tended by international buyers. The key to a successful auction is a suf-
ficient quantity of good quality and well presented tobacco to attract in-
ternational buyers. The anticipated growth in volume of the Tanzania crop
and the improvements in quality expected as a result of the project would
meet these conditions. The project therefore includes the construction of
an auction floor at Morogoro, tentatively estimated to cost some T Sh 6.0
million (US$ 0.8 million). Since the introduction of the auction system
would increase the responsibilities of the TTB an experienced Chief Mar-
keting Officer and Chlef Accountant would be appointed and their salaries
would be considered as a project cost for a period of five years, as would
the cost of training abroad of a Tanzanian national to take over the former
post.
4.21      As IDA is financing central storage, processing and auctioning
facilities which would be used by all Tanzanian flue-cured tobacco, as-
surances were obtained during negotiations that IDA would be consulted
annually concerning flue-cured tobacco development outside the project;
and that the Tanzania Government would take such actions as might be
necessary to maintain the quality of all flue-cured tobacco, including
the provision of adequate storage, processing and auctioning facilities.



-12-
D.  Cost Estimates
h .22       Toftal project costs are estUim'Lted at T Sh 105.2 million (US.1 :J'-7
inil.ion), -!ith a fore- n. change coirponent of Tboutt I' Sh 53.1 nmillion (USa` 7.4
1illUioil) . Those eitiinatco a7 e suzi,.arizod in the Trablc below. IXurthcr details
are giv, n in Annex 14.
SUlIlARY PlOJThOT COSTS
F (mr i -n
L.ocat   Foreig.;n      Local   Fo ri,n Lgn
Currfency Lexchange) Tot..l Currency E7.,Wntr_  Tel 1. Co;nj eIirmt
A. Credit* - * -  - * - (T{,ll '^(U O    .....    ........   .  J~ .  -. - (K.;,   ,<  ~, . .......... ~~,<--
A. Credit                             -~K II7 .(                 (-J .
14edium-term credit-.      2   6,650    9,930   16.630   930    1.400      2,330    60
Tncreirental seasonaal credit-/  2,010    8f,540  10,550   280   1.,195    1,!475    81
NIDA Finaricial Analyst3/         90       270      360    15       35        50      75
B. Settlement Infrastru>cture
Rcads, waiser supply, buildings 6,245    4,050   10,295   870     570      L,)thO    39
Vehicles and equippent           230    2,030    2,260    ho    280          320     90
Extension service4/           18,0iO    2,610   20,620 2,520      365      2,885     13
C. Project Headquarters
Salaries and other costs       5,567    3.855    7>422   780      260      1,040    25
Buildings                      1,020       3hi0   1,360   140      50        190     25
Vehicles and equipment            23       180      203     5      25         30     89
Aerial survey                     50       450      500     5      65         70    90
D. Research and Training
Buildings                        940       320    1,260   130      45        175     25
Vehicles and equipment            20       220      240     5      30         35     92
Salaries and other costs       3,240    2,360    5,600   450      330        780     42
E. Storage and Hlandling
Storage                        3,000    3,000    6,000   420      420        840    504
Processing facilities          1,500   12,500   14,000   210   1,750       L,960     89
Auction floors                 3,000    3,000    6,000   420      420        840     50
,arketing study                  100       400      500    15      55         70     80
Chief Larketing Officer
and Chief Accountant           400    1,000    1,400    55      140        195     71
Total            52,095    3d05  1C 200 I 7'l 90 l7),`      -1-75        0
1/  Curing barn3, baling sheds anid tools.
2/  Fertilizer, seeds, insecticides and other materials.
3/ See para 5.13.  3ince this table, and other financial projections in the report,
were prepared, it has been decided to include in the project continuation of the
employment of tlhe expatriate Chief Accountant for NIDCA, at a  total cost of about
us$ 50,000 (T Sh 360,000).
4/ During the developiin,nt period only.



- 13 -
4.23      In most cases, estimates are based on recent experience in tobac-
co settlement projects in Tanzania, and include 10% contingencies. In the
case of storage, auction floor and processing facility extensions - other
than that required by 1971 - tentative estimates by the appraisal mission
have been used which include 25% contingencies and which will need revision
in the light of the results of the study described in para 4.17.
E. Proposed Financing
4.24      An IDA credit of US$ 9.0 million (T Sh 64.3 million) would be made
to Government, to cover about 60% of expenditures incurred on the project
during the six years, 1970/71 - 1975/76.
SUMMARY PROPOSED FINANCING
T Sh '000        US$ '000         %
IDA Credit             64,280           9,000          61
Tobacco Board           6,290             880           6
Government             34,A30           4,850          33
Total            105,200          14,730         100
IDA would finance retroactively certain preinvestment activities under the
project: planning and surveying, and the marketing study. The amount is
not expected to exceed US$ 50,000, all expenditures having been incurred
subsequent to March 15, 1970.
4.25      US$ 7.4 million or 82% of the proposed IDA credit, would cover
the estimated foreign exchange costs of the project during the disburse-
ment period.  The balance of US$ 1.6 million, or 18% of the credit, would
finance local currency costs. IDA's share of project financing would be
sufficient to ensure the satisfactory organization and execution of the
project.  The Government's contribution of US$ 4.8 million would come
from budgetary sources; while the Tobacco Board's contribution would come
from its trading surpluses, see para 5.09. In addition to eventual loan
repayments, farmers - who need 100% credit to enable them to participate
in the project - would also contribute labor valued at about T Sh 7.5 mil-
lion (US$ 10 million).
4.26      The project will give rise to additional investments over the
three years following the six-year disbursement period of the proposed IDA
credit. These investments involve a continuous build-up of credit needs
and project supervision and are estimated to cost some US$ 1.6 million (T
Sh 11.5 million). Further details are given in Annex 4. The Government
would finance US$ 1.0 million of this amount from budgetary sources, while
the remaining US$ 0.6 million would be financed by' NDCA out of principal
repayments by farmers, TTB and TTPC of medium and long term loans made at
the beginning of the project.



- 14 -
Procurement
4.27      In procuring on-farm inputs required by cooperative members, val-
ued at about US$ 3.5 nmillion, N)CA would follow its standard policy of in-
ternational comnetitive bidding, although Drovision has 'been made in the
credit documents for local preference for a national fertilizer manufacturer
which is expected to sLart prodtuction in 1971/72.  This preference would be
the lower of 15% or tihe appropriate customs duty (presently nil). Tihe i4in-
istry of Agriculture would procure all its vehicles, including tractors and
vehicles for the earth moving unit, through international competitive bid-
ding procedures unless, for reasons of standardization and/or service avail-
ability, IDA agrees otherwise. The value oF these would amount to about
US$ 420,000. Buildings and water supply, valued at about US$ 1.3 million,
would be procured by the Ministry following local competitive bidding, be-
cause the amounts involved would be too small to attract foreign firms.
4.28      TTPC is procuring the machinery for the extension to its process-
ing facilities to be installed prior to 7March 1971 by means of negotiated
contracts, following extensive investigationi of the various alternative
plant layouts available. Such extensions are estimated to cost about
US$ 510,000. In view of TTPC's decision to extend these facilities by in-
creasing the capacity of units in the present processing line, internation-
al competitive bidding procedures would not have oeen appropriate.  For civ-
il works involved in constructing further extensions of these facilities,
the auction floors and additional storage facilities, both TTB and TTPC
would follow international competitive bidding procedures. TTPC would pro-
cure machinery for such further extensions through international competi-
tive bidding procedures, unless IDA agrees otherwise when the precise na-
ture of those extensions becomes known. The total cost of construction and
processing machinery is US$ 3.1 million.
Disbursement
4.29      It is proposed that the IDA credit be disbursed against the follow-
ing, apart from the unallocated contingency element of US$ 1.0 million:
(a)  100% of payments out of NDCA medium-term and
incremental seasonal loans to cooperatives, and
long-term loans for extending processing facil-
ities prior to March 1971, and for the market-
ing study (US$ 4.0 million).
(b)  100% of the cost of certain easily identified
items with a high foreign exchange component,
namely vehicles, aerial survey and related
items, services of expatriate staff and train-
ing abroad (US$ 1.3 million).
(c) 30% of the cost of certain other easily identi-
fiable items, namely operating costs of the



- 15 -
earth-moving unit, excluding depreciation; wa-
ter supply construction; housing, buildings and
furniture; and services of field staff, other
than expatriate staff (US$ 1.2 million).
(d) 60% of the cost of extending processing facil-
ities after March 1, 1971 and of building
storage and auction floors (US$ 1.5 million).
No disbursements should take place until the
marketing study is available and agreement
reached with the Government concerning design,
cost estimates, organization aspects, procure-
ment and disbursement.
Disbursement applications would be accompanied by certificates of loans
made by NDCA; by receipted bills; and by certificates of expenditure by
the project's Senior Accountant as appropriate. Disbursements of the
IDA credit are expected to be as follows:
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ '000)
1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76
950      1,460      1,780      2,170      1,590     1,050
A disbursement schedule by quarters is at Annex 5.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
5.01      National tobacco development is the responsibility of the Minis-
try of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives in which a Tobacco Section, head-
ed by a Senior Agricultural Officer (Tobacco), is to be established to co-
ordinate activities. A Tobacco Project Group is to be set up in Tabora to
execute the field aspects of the project. Coordination with other inter-
ested entities - both in regards to the project and tobacco production gen-
erally - would be achieved at the national and regional levels by the es-
tablishment of Tobacco Coordinating Committees. An Organization Chart ap-
pears in Annex 2.



- 16 -
B.  Field Staff, Research and Training
Tobacco Project Group
5.02      All flue-cured tobacco development in the project area would be
the responsibility of a Tobacco Project Group headed by a Tobacco Project
Officer. Planning and survey of project complexes and villages would be
carried out by a Section headed by a Senior Planning Officer. Another
Section - not financed under the project - would be responsible for re-
planning existing schemes to try and bring them up to the standards ap-
plied to project schemes. Development of schemes would be the responsi-
bility of three Sections each headed by an Assistant Tobacco Project Offi-
cer - one for the Chunya District, one for the M4panda District and project
schemes only in the Tabora District, and the third for existing schemes in
the Tabora District. 1/  The accounts for tobacco development in the proj-
ect area (including those for the Tumbi. Research Station) would be kept by
a Section headed by a Senior Accountant, who would arrange for separate
accounts to be kept for project schemes. The Tobacco Project Officer
would be assisted, as required, by a Forest Officer, a Water Engineer
and a Roads Engineer assigned from the appropriate Government Departments.
5.03      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Tobacco
Project Officer and Senior Planning Officer would be appointed only fol-
lowing IDA's approval of the suitability of candidates' qualifications
and experience for the posts; that the Senior Accountant would be appointed
only following consultation with IDA: and that the Forest Officer, Water
Engineer and Roads Engineer required part time, would be assigned by name
and would be made available to the project as a first priority whenever
their assistance was requested by the Tobacco Project Officer. Provision
nas been made in project financing to cover the appointment of expatriates
to two of the full-time posts. Initial appointments to the posts of Tobac-
co Project Officer and Senior Planning Officer would be conditions of ef-
fectiveness of the credit.
Extension Staff
5.04      Each of the proposed 15 complexes would be developed under the
responsibility of a resident Field Officer (FO), of a diploma grade, sup-
ported by an Assistant Field Officer (AFO), a Cooperative Inspector (CI)
(seconded to the complex cooperative), and two Assistant Foresters. Each
of the proposed 150 villages would have a resident AFO, assisted during
1/   Separation of project and pre-project schemes in the Chunya and Mpanda
Districts would be impractical, in view of the relatively small number
of pre-project schemes there. In the Tabora District, however, pre-
project schemes would remain the major part of the whole throughout
the project period.



- 17 -
the first year of settlement by a newly qualified AFO. This rate of staf-
fing would provide an appropriate ratio of one agricultural extension offi-
cer to 50 farmers during initial development, and of 1 to 100 on a permanent
basis. W4hen the project is fully operational by 1975, 15 FOs, 165 AFOs, 15
CIs and 30 Assistant Foresters, plus clerks and stores officers, would be
employed. All FOs and AFOs have completed a training course in general
agriculture at a Government training institute. On being posted to the
project, these officers would attend an eight-months' course of training in
tobacco production, curing and grading at the Tumbi Research Station. These
numbers of staff are available, but assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that all officers shown to be necessary, together with adequate sup-
port staff, would be fully trained and made available to the project.
Research and Training
5.05      Tumbi Research Station would employ one Senior Research Officer
and four Research Officers for research, and one Field Officer with exten-
sive experience of tobacco production, for training, supported by appro-
priate junior staff. The Station would receive administrative support
from the Tobacco Project Group, but for all professional and research mat-
ters it would come under the Director of Research and Training in the Min-
istry in Dar es Salaam. Provision has been made in project financing for
the employment of four expatriate research officers. Assurances were ob-
tained during negotiations that the appointment of the Senior Research Of-
ficer and of any Research Officer would be made only following consultation
with IDA.
C. Marketing and Processing
Tanganyika Tobacco Board (TTB)
5.06      Tobacco marketing is the sole responsibility of TTB, a statutory
body set up in 1963. Reporting to the Minister of Agriculture, it current-
ly consists of a Chairman and 15 other members. The Minister nominates the
Chairman and one other member, currently the Managing Director of the TTPC.
Five members are the Principal Secretaries of the Ministries of Agriculture,
Commerce, Finance, Rural Administration and Economic Affairs. The remain-
ing eight members represent both flue-cured and fire-cured growers. TTB's
executive staff is headed by a Chief Executive Officer and a Chief Accoun-
tant. TTB relies on its sales agents, the Trans-Continental Leaf Tobacco
Corporation of Vaduz, Liechtenstein, for classification and purchase of
crop in the field, for practically all export sales and for general advice
on flue-cured tobacco marketing. Local sales to the monopoly producer of
Tanzanian cigarettes, the parastatal BAT (Tanzania) Ltd., are handled di-
rectly by TTB.
5.07      TTB currently purchases the crop from cooperatives in the field
on the basis of a grade classification. Prices paid for each grade are
determined in advance by the Minister of Agriculture on the advice of TTB,



- 18 -
and are related to Trans-Continental predictions of likely export prices.
After purchase, the wet, cured leaf is transported to Morogoro for re-dry-
ing under contract by the Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company (TTPC) (see
below). The re-dried tobacco is then offered for sale to BAT and foreign
buyers under direct contract.
5.08      Government has decided to adopt an auction system of marketing
as soon as feasible (see para 4.20). The auction floor would be built at
Morogoro. The organizational implications of the change from direct sales
to an auction system are a subject of the study referred to in para 4.17.
Some problems are likely to arise in the course of the change-over from
direct to auction sales. First, TTB would lose the international market-
ing expertise of Trans-Continental. Consequently, as a condition of ef-
fectiveness of the proposed credit TTB would employ a Chief Marketing Of-
ficer whose qualifications and experience for the post would be satisfac-
tory to IDA. Second, TTB has no experience of managing an auction floor.
Third, the auction system would require growers and their cooperatives to
bale and grade tobacco to internationally acceptable standards which are
not being reached at present. Fourth, the auction system would impose
much greater organizational and accounting problems on the cooperatives
and call for a higher degree of management than is now available to them.
To ensure a smooth transition to an auction system and to allow the de-
velopment of cooperative management capabilities, the following assurances
were obtained during negotiations that, unless otherwise agreed with IDA:
(a) TTB would continue its present system of pur-
chasing tobacco (for sale across the auction
floor on its own account) from those cooper-
atives which, in the opinion of the Govern-
ment, are not yet capable of selling their
crop on their own account;
(b) TTB would make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Government and IDA, to manage the auction
floor, to grade leaf at the cooperative lev-
el for presentation on the auction floor, and
to train TTB, Ministry of Agriculture and
cooperative staff to take over these responsi-
bilities.
Assurances were also obtained that the posts of Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Accountant of TTB would be filled only following consultation with
IDA. Provision has been made in project financing for the employment of ex-
patriates as Chief Marketing Officer and Chief Accountant, and for the train-
ing abroad of a Tanzanian national to take over the former post.
5.09      Balance sheets for TTB since 1965 are summarized at Annex 6.  As
at December 31, &969, accumulated surpluses or losses on trading account,
and the surplus funds from a levy of T Sh 0.05/lb of wet leaf charged for
the purposes of meeting TTB overheads, were as follows:



- 19 -
T Sh '000    US$ '000
Surplus on flue-cured trading        9,392        1,315
Losa on fire-cured trading          (3,300)        (462)
Loss on aromatic trading            (2,132)        (298)
Surplus on Board levy                  501           70
General Fund Total              4,461          625
The surplus on flue-cured trading comes from a TTB policy of withholding
T Sh 0.16/lb of wet leaf in addition to direct marketing costs. This with-
holding is not a formal tax and the resultant trading surplus is not commit-
ted for any particular use. In practice, it finances losses on fire-cured
and aromatic tobacco trading, and investments in processing and storage fa-
cilities. TTB's working capital needs are provided in the form of crop ad-
vances by the National Cooperative Bank, a parastatal body.
Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company (TTPC)
5.10      TTPC was set up in 1966 to re-dry flue-cured leaf and prepare it
for export. Initially owned on a fifty-fifty basis by TTB and the National
Development Corporation, a parastatal industrial finance company, TTPC has
recently become wholly owned by TTB. TTPC currently acts as the agents for
TTB on a fee basis, although its losses are underwritten by TTB. With the
introduction of the auction system, TTPC would act as agents to the indi-
vidual purchasers of wet leaf. Balance sheets for TTPC since its inception
are shown at Annex 6.
5.11      Technical operations are currently controlled by an expatriate
factory manager, seconded from Trans-Continental. Trans-Continental also
has a visiting agency agreement with TTPC which terminates automatically
on termination of Trans-Continental's sales agency agreement with TTB - a
likely consequence of the adoption of the auction system. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that TTPC would at all times employ a factory
manager, whose qualifications and experience for the post would be subject
to IDA's prior approval; and visiting agents acceptable to, and on terms
and conditions satisfactory to, IDA. Assurances were also obtained that
the post of TTPC Managing Director would be filled only following consul-
tation with IDA.
D. National Development Credit Agency
5.12      Credit provided under the project to farmers, cooperatives, TTB
and TTPC would be channeled through the National Development Credit Agency
(NDCA), formed in 1964 to provide credit for agricultural purposes and
enterprlses, including marketing, processing, storing and transporting
agricultural products. Although ownership is vested in the cooperative
movement, NDCA is under virtual Government control. Government provides



- 20 -
the bulk of its funds and its Management Committee is composed largely of
Government officials. NDCA's overall financial position is poor, with an
accumulated deficit of T Sh 36 million (US$ 5.0 million) as at March 31,
1970. Overdue amounts of principal and interest were then equivalent to
some 42% of NDCA's loan portfolio; overdues on loans under IDA Credit 80-TA
amounted to some 16% of that portfolio. 1/ These bad debts were largely
inherited from NDCA's predecessor organizations and from Government loan
schemes, but are also partly due to the general conditions within which
NDCA has to operate. INDCA lends mainly to agricultural cooperatives and
their unions, whose management is often weak and whose members have to
farm often without adequate technical advisory services. NDCA does not
have adequate staff to analyze and advise on the financial situation of
potential borrowers. Moreover, debt collection often suffers because of
difficulties with cooperative management, delays in marketing crops pro-
duced and difficulties in collecting loan repayments. Further details
about NPCA are given in Annex 7.
5.13      Government has been considering ways and means of correcting
the present situation and has decided to re-form NDCA into a Rural Develop-
ment Bank, with a revised capital and legal structure and wider respon-
sibilities. In preparation for this re-formation, Government has au-
thorized NDCA to place some T Sh 26.3 million (US$3.7 million) of bad
debts, with a corresponding amount of liabilities, into a suspense account
and intends to transfer to the Rural Development Bank only those NDCA as-
sets and liabilities which it considers 'live".  To further strengthen
NDCA's financial position, Government injected an additional T Sh 10.4
million (US$1.5 million) of new capital from the 1969-70 development budg-
et, and a further T Sh 12 million (US$1.7 million) has been provided for
this purpose in 1970-71. Furthermore, NDCA is in the process of recruit-
ing an expatriate financial analyst and it is a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed credit that an appointment be made, financed initially
under Credit 80-TA. (Provision is made in the tobacco project, however,
for continued financing of an expatriate in this post, and of the ex-
patriate NDCA Chief Accountant, for about three years after the June 30,
1971 Closing Date for Credit 80-TA. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that NDCA would only appoint persons whose qualifications
and experience for the posts had been approved by IDA.) The main means
for improving NDCA's performance (and for ensuring the performance of the
Rural Development Bank), however, lies in utilizing its credit facilities
in projects such as this integrated tobacco project, which includes other
essential elements besides credit, such as extension services, assistance
to cooperative management and financially attractive farming operations.
5.14      NDCA's performance in the tea and flue-cured tobacco sectors to
date has been generally satisfactory. Farm inputs have been delivered to
1/   It should be noted, however, that some loans under Credit 80-TA have
been granted recently and are still within the grace period.



- 21 -
cooperatives on time, and at very reasonable prices due to NDCA's interna-
tional competitive bidding procedures. Credit recovery on tobacco loans
has also been good since 1967 when loan repayments began to be deducted on
NDCA's behalf by TTB before cooperatives were paid for their crops. In
view of this, and the satisfactory accounting procedures within NDCA, it
would be a suitable channel for the on-lending of the proposed credit.
Since the Government proposes that the new Rural Development Bank should
assume the NDCA staff currently involved in the lending program to the
tobacco sector and NDCA's general lending policies to that sector, the
proposed re-formation of NDCA should not adversely affect the project.
Government is discussing with IDA its detailed proposals for this re-
formation, in fulfillment of its obligations under Credit 80-TA and of
those proposed under the tobacco project.
On-Lending
5.15      As NDCA does not have the capital needed to carry out the project,
it is proposed that the IDA credit be disbursed against 100% of NDCA loans
under the project. These funds would be passed on to NDCA under a Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement satisfactory to IDA, conclusion of which should be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit. The Subsidiary Loan
Agreement would provide that the first T Sh 13.0 million (US$ 1.8 million)
would be made available to NDCA as a grant, with the remainder, estimated at
T Sh 31.9 million (US$ 4.5 million) as a loan carrying 4% interest and repay-
able over 14 years, including six years' grace. These terms are appropriate
considering that NDCA would need to make seasonal credit available to project
cooperatives indefinitely at an annual rate of about T Sh 13.0 million
(US$ 1.8 million) after full development (see para 6.11).
5.16      The Subsidiary Loan Agreement would also provide that unless IDA
agreed otherwise:
(a) the interest charged on all NDCA loans - seasonal,
medium-term or long-term - would be 8-1/2% per an-
num, which is NDCA's present rate for seasonal
credit;
(b) medium-term loans to cooperatives for on-lending
to farmers for barn and grading shed construction
would have a term not exceeding four years, with
no grace period;
(c) long-term loans to TTB and TTPC would have a term
not exceeding 12 years including a grace period
not exceeding two years; and
(d)  a revolving fund would be established for the provi-
sion of seasonal credits to project participants.



- 22 -
E. Cooperatives
5.17      The formation and operation of cooperatives in Tanzania are
governed by the Cooperative Societies Act, 1968, and the subsidiary Coop-
erative Societies Rules, 1968. This legislation gives wide powers to the
Registrar of Cooperatives, subject usually to appeal to the Minister of
Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives, including powers to refuse to register
a cooperative if it does not have a reasonable chance of being financially
viable; to restrict borrowing capacity; and to intervene in management
whenever necessary, including direct supervision. The day-to-day operations
of the cooperatives are supervised by the Cooperative Division of the Minis-
try, under the guidance of the Registrar, such supervision including monthly
visits to check cash and stocks and to assist in the preparation of monthly
trial balances. Unless the Registrar has agreed to the appointment of inde-
pendent auditors, audits are carried out once a year by officers of the Co-
operative Division. However, staff shortages and inexperience severely re-
strict the standards of supervision that can be achieved in practice.
5.18      There are three well-established tobacco cooperatives in the
project area: the Tabora and Urambo Cooperative Societies in Tabora
District and the Mpanda Cooperative Society in Mpanda District. Farm-
ers in old Ministry of Land Settlement schemes have recently been reor-
ganized into six new cooperatives. The Tabora Society is solvent and
has a good Management Committee and a first-class Secretary-Manager
seconded from BAT (Tanzania) Ltd. The Urambo and Mpanda Societies are
presently in an unsatisfactory state, with poor management and accounts
out of date. The Registrar has appointed a Cooperative Supervisor to
look into the Urambo Society's affairs, which are complicated by its un-
economic attempt to run a tractor hire service; a similar examination
will be made at Mpanda. In all cases, however, current operations of
channeling credit and inputs to farmers appear to be solvent. It is
intended that new cooperative societies would normally be formed for
each project complex, each with about 1,000 membership producing, at
full development, some 1.5 million lb of tobacco - sufficient to allow an
economic operation. However, some project villages or entire complexes
may wish to join one of the already existing cooperative societies; in
view of this, assurances were obtained during negotiations that IDA's
prior approval should be obtained in such cases.
5.19      Each new society would have a full-time officer posted from the
Cooperative Division for a minimum period of five years to supervise manage-
ment in the formative period. During this period, the Societies would not
be allowed to purchase tractors or other vehicles (which would be supplied
on a hire basis by the Ministry of Agriculture). Thereafter a Society
would be allowed to purchase such vehicles provided that NDCA carries out
an individual appraisal of the ability of the Society to organize, maintain
and operate the vehicles economically and provided that the Society has ac-
cumulated sufficient equity (reserves and share subscriptions) to be able
to put up at least 25% of the capital cost involved. Assurances in these
respects were obtained during negotiations.



- 23 -
F. Accounts and Audits
5.20      NDCA and TTB have their accounts audited annually by Cooper
Brothers & Company, while TTPC engages Rajpar, Davda & Company, both re-
spected local auditing firms with international connections. Cooperative
Society accounts would be audited annually by the Cooperative Division of
the Ministry of Agriculture, although larger units may, with the Registrar's
permission, engage external auditing firms. Ministry of Agriculture ex-
penditures are subject to regular Government audit. These arrangements
are satisfactory, but assurances were obtained from Government during nego-
tiations that they would be continued, that separate accounts would be kept
for the project, and that the annual audited accounts of major project en-
tities would be submitted to IDA within four months of the close of their
financial year; except that, for NDCA, a period of six months would be
allowed because of the complexity of its accounts and the need for these
to be consistent with those of its holding company (see Annex 7).
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Yields and Production
6.01      In recent years, the national average yield of flue-cured tobac-
co has varied between 572 lb of wet, cured leaf/acre and 640 lb/acre.
Yields in excess of 1,000 lb/acre are obtained by many growers and the po-
tential under efficient husbandry is much higher. It is estimated that
project growers would average 550 lb/acre from their first year's crop, ris-
ing to 650 lb in the second year and to 750 lb in the third and subsequent
years. This prediction is considered conservative in the light of services
that would be provided to growers, and the provision of adequately construc-
ted grading sheds to avoid some of the losses referred to in para 3.06.
6.02      Annual production from the project is expected to reach some
22.5 million lb of cured, marketable wet leaf by 1977/78, at which time
non-project production is expected to be some 29.1 million lb. The build-
up of national production is estimated as follows:



- 24 -
1970/71 1971/72 1972/73 1973/74 1974/75 1975/76 1976/77 1977/78
.................... (million lb wet leaf) .
Project
production      -       1.0      4.2     8.8    13.8    18.7    21.8    22.5
Non-project
production/l  23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    24.8    29.1
Totals:    23.0    24.0    27.2    31.8    36.8    41.7    46.6    51.6
/1   Assumes that development will continue after completion of the project
settlement program (in 1974/75) at approximately project rates; and
that any improvements or expansions outside the project prior to that
time would be offset by reductions in production from other areas due
to shortages of wood fuel for curing.
With an average estimated outturn of 86-1/2%, project production of re-dried
leaf is estimated to reach 19.5 million lb by 1977/78, and total Tanzanian
production about 44.6 million lb.
B. Markets and Prices
6.03      World production, consumption and trade in tobacco have increased
steadily during the last decade and favorable prices have encouraged both
area expansion and yield improvement. A major factor resulting in high
prices is the 1965 embargo on Rhodesian tobacco. While Rhodesia may again
become a larger exporter, its production and exports are not likely to rise
to previous levels, due to loss of significant numbers of growers to other
farming activities and the emergence of competitive producers such as Ugan-
dan and Tanzanian smallholder tobacco growers. Further, it is unlikely
that manufacturers will wish to return to arrangements which committed them
to making the bulk of their purchases from a single producer.
6.04      Increasing concern, particularly in the developed countries, over
the possible hazards of tobacco smoking to health may reduce the consump-
tion of tobacco. The main growth of tobacco use during the last 10
years, however, has occurred primarily in developing countries and is like-
ly to continue. It is possible, therefore, that the market expansion rate,
which was about 2.5% per annum during the 1956-64 period, will diminish slightly
in the 1970's but will still leave the opportunity for producers to expand
their sales of a quality product. More information on the market for flue-
cured tobacco is given in Annex 8.
6.05      Domestic flue-cured tobacco consumption in Tanzania is currently
about 2.5 million lb, dry weight. While increasing, domestic consumption
is not likely to exceed about 3 million lb in the near future, so that



- 25 -
some 42 million lb would need to be exported by 1977/78, compared to 1969
exports of about 13 million lb. These larger exports would comprise only
about 4% of world trade and no particular difficulties are anticipated in
marketing leaf of Tanzanian quality. International market prices are unlikely
to be significantly affected by product production which would account for
less than 2% of world demand in the 1980's (see Annex 8 para. 27).
6.06      Recent average export prices for Tanzanian flue-cured tobacco
have been as follows:
............ T Shillings .
Crop Year                  1966/67   1967/68   1968/69   1969/70
(Forecast)
Average price per lb, dry weight
FOB Dar-es-Salaam                        3.80       4.22      4.25       4.46
Local sales to BAT (Tanzania) Ltd are currently fixed at about 10% above
export prices, but this differential is expected to disappear when the
auction system is introduced. Average export prices around T Sh 4.40 -
4.50 are expected to prevail over the next few years. A long-term FOB
Dar es Salaam price of T Sh 4.20 per lb dry weight has been used for
economic and financial projections. This price takes into account the
possible end of the embargo on Rhodesian tobacco and the impact on con-
sumption of the apparent hazards to health of smoking. Prices over the
range T Sh 3.50 - 4.50 have been used for the purpose of assessing the
sensitivity of the economic rate of return, see para 7.01.
6.07      The FOB Dar es Salaam average price of T Sh 4.20 per lb, dry
weight, is equivalent to T Sh 3.63 per lb of wet leaf. From this price
deductions of about T Sh 1.17 are made to cover actual costs of trans-
porting, processing and selling, with a further T Sh 0.16 withheld by
TTB (see para 5.09), leaving an average of some T Sh 2.30 per lb of wet
leaf for the grower. A break down of the deductions is given in Annex 9.
In 1970 the average price to be paid to growers will be T Sh 2.56 per lb
of wet leaf.
C. Financial Results
Growers
6.08      A typical farm budget for a project grower is shown in Annex 10.
This budget shows that by the fifth year of production, the farmer should
have paid off all his medium-term loans for barn and grading shed construc-
tion and be left with a net income of over T Sh 2,200 (US$308) per annum,
as well as subsistence crops. This income is substantially better than
anything else available in the project area and equal to, or better than,
that available from most other smallholder cash crops.
6.09      While the farm income is too low to be subject to income tax,
farmers would contribute to Government revenues through indirect sales



- 26 -
taxes, which average about 10% on all non-essential goods, and through
amounts withheld by TTB (see para 5.09). Assuming that 30% of the farm
net income above T Sh 500 (US$70) per year would be subject to sales tax,
and that TTB's withholding rate remains at T Sh 0.16 per ib, farmers in
the project would each contribute nearly T Sh 300 (US$42) per annum to
Government revenues at full development or a total of about T Sh 4.5 mil-
lion (US$630,000) per annum.
Cooperatives
6.10      Until such time as project cooperatives operate their own produce
transport services and discontinue the use of Ministry of Agriculture facil-
ities (see para 5.19), their financial obligations would remain seasonal,
except for those incurred in acting as a channel for medium-term loans to
their members. Initially, project cooperatives would follow current prac-
tices for charging for their services, namely:
(a) a 10% mark-up on all inputs to farmers to cover the
cost of distribution from the railhead to village;
(b) an additional 5% mark-up on all seasonal inputs to
cover the interest charged by NDCA; 1/
(c) 8-1/2% interest per annum on medium-term loans to
farmers to cover the interest charged by NDCA;
(d) a cess of T Sh 0.10/lb of cured leaf to cover the
costs of baling, handling and packing materials;
and
(e) a cess of T Sh 0.15/lb of cured leaf to cover the
cooperative's overhead and generate a reserve.
The above charges should allow a moderately well managed cooperative to
meet all costs and to build up modest reserves. Since overhead costs
would be met and reserves generated by a cess on production, however,
the efficient producer is to some extent disfavored by this system and
there is some farm antagonism to the cess. Consideration thus would be
given during implementation of the project to increasing the mark-ups on
inputs and interest rates and to removing or reducing the T Sh 0.15 cess.
National Development Credit Agency
6.11      The effect of the project on the cash flow position of NDCA is
shown in Annex 11, Part I. On the basis of the on-lending pattern described
1./  The NDCA charges 8-1/2% per annum, but the average period that season-
al loans are outstanding is about seven months and actual interest paid
usually averages slightly below 5%.



- 27 -
in para 5.15, the overall NDCA cash flow is improved at all stages of the
project, and NDCA should be able to meet the additional credit needs of the
project farmers beyond the disbursement period of the IDA credit without re-
course to further borrowing.
Tanganyika Tobacco Board
6.12      The impact of the project on the cash flow position of TTB is
shown in Annex 11, Part II. Assuming that TTB continues to withhold T Sh
0.16/lb (see para 5.09) and that credit for construction would be provided
by NDCA, TTB would run deficits in 1971/72 through 1973/74 as a result of
project financed activity, but would accrue substantial surpluses in subse-
quent years. These deficits could be met from withholdings from tobacco
marketed from pre-project schemes.
Government
6.13      The direct effect of the project on Government revenues is shown
in Annex 11, Part III. Funds would accrue to Government directly from
draw-down of the IDA credit; payments by farmers, through the cooperatives,
for the use of Government transportation facilities; additional sales tax
revenues; and repayment by NDCA of Government loans. These direct receipts
would not cover direct Government project cash costs, however, and there
would be a net outflow of Government revenues, of about T Sh 26.4 million
(US$ 3.7 million) through 1975/76. On the other hand, Government would be
in receipt of indirect revenues in the form of the surpluses accruing to
NDCA and TTB. Taking these into account, there would be a cumulative nega-
tive cash flow through 1973/74 of some T Sh 21.8 million (US$ 3.1 million),
which would have been recovered by 1978/79. This overall cash flow is
shown in Annex 11, Part IV and V.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project's primary benefits would be increased production of
flue-cured tobacco, all of which would be exported, and consequently pro-
vision of an improved livelihood for some 15,000 farm families. Export
revenues at full development in 1977/78 and subsequent years would reach
some T Sh 82 million (US$ 11.5 million). Assuming an opportunity cost for
family labor of T Sh 2.50/man-day, a negligible opportunity cost of land,
and an economic life for each settlement and its tobacco farms of 15 years,
the economic rate of return from investments in the project is estimated to
be about 30%. The calculation is shown in Annex 12, which also indicates
the sensitivity of the rate of return to various factors. The rate of re-
turn varies from about 12% to about 37% over a range of export prices from
T Sh 3.50 - 4.50; and from about 19% to about 54% over a range of costs
from 20% higher than estimates (excluding contingencies) to about 10% lower.



- 28 -
7.02      The rate of return is particularly sensitive to labor costs.  A
strong case can be made that the opportunity cost of family labor is cur-
rently negligible; if it is not costed the rate of return would rise to
about 55%. Costing family labor at T Sh 5.00/man-day - a value near the
Government official minimum wage rate - reduces the rate of return to some
2%. The value of T Sh 2.50/man-day placed on family labor for the purpose
of the principal calculation of the rate of return, is the price now paid
in the project area for casual labor.
7.03      In addition to the direct benefits taken into account in the
above calculations, the project would have the secondary benefit of creat-
ing communities where basic social services can be supplied more efficient-
ly than to isolated farm holdings. It also has the socio-political bene-
fits of providing an economic utilization of large areas of hitherto
unproductive miombo woodland; of relieving heavy population pressure in
other parts of Tanzania, particularly the Tukuyu and Kilimanjaro areas;
and of providing alternative employment for displaced sisal estate workers.
While not quantifiable, these benefits should be regarded as important and
serve to underline the high priority of this project for a country in which
the opportunities for agricultural development are limited.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) control of the production of project and non-
project flue-cured tobacco (paras 4.04, 4.21);
(b) arrangements for the conduct of the marketing
survey and implementation of its recommenda-
tions (para 4.17);
(c) the appointment of various officers to the
"Project Group", the extension services, Tum-
bi Research Station, TTB, TTPC and NDCA (paras
5.03, 5.04, 5.05, 5.08, 5.11 and 5.13);
(d) interim measures related to the introduction of
the auction system of marketing (para 5.08); and
(e) staffing, management and operations of new coop-
eratives and involvement of existing cooperatives
in the project (paras 5.18 and 5.19).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness are that:
(a) the Tobacco Project Officer and the Senior Plan-
ning Officer have been appointed to the "Project



- 29 -
Group" (para 5.03); TTB has employed a Chief Mar-
keting Officer (para 5.08) and NDCA has employed
a Financial Specialist (para 5.13); and
(b) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to IDA,
has also become effective (para 5.15).
8.03      No disbursements would be permitted for construction of auction
floors or storage facilities, or for the extension of existing processing
capacity beyond that scheduled for completion by March 1971, pending the
results of the marketing study and agreement between Government and IDA on
design, cost estimates, organizational aspects, procurement and disburse-
ment (para 4.29(d)).
8.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA cre-
dit of US$ 9.0 million.






ANNEX 1
TANZA4IA
FLUE-CURED TOBACCO PROJECT
TYPES OF TOBACCO AND PRODUCTION METHODS
_'Tpes_of Tobacco and Curinp Methods
1.        Two types 1/ of tobacco are currently grown in Tanzania:  flue-
cure(d used for Virginia tobacco, and fire-cured for dark tobacco. The
flue-cured Virginia tobacco is used almost entirely in the manufacture of
cigarettes, while fire-cured is used in pipe srmoking mixtures, chewing to-
bacco and to a minor extent in cigarettes (dark cigarettes and shag tobac-
co for individually rolled cigarettes).
2.        In fire curing, the green leaves are strung in tiers in a barn
over a small smokey fire; the cured leaf becomes dark brown in color.
Flue curing takes place in a barn of a more permanent structure heated by
a system of flue pipes with an outside funace. Strict control of temper-
ature is necessary and after curing the tobacco has a bright yellow color.
Project Farming Methods for Flue-Cured Tobacco
3.        Under the "Ujamaa" system of village settlement, each year a
site for the village tobacco nursery and tobacco growing block are se-
lected by the local cooperative on advice from the agricultural exten-
sion officer. Within these areas each farmer is allocated his own seed
bed and tobacco area of two acres (one acre in the first year of farm-
ing). The cropping pattern is based on a rotation: Year 1 tobacco;
Year 2 maize; Years 3, 4 and 5 grass fallow.
4.        Cultivation is similar to that practised in Rhodesia, Zambia
and Malawi; seed beds are fumigated, treated with fertilizer and in-
secticides and sown early in September followed by transplanting at the
beginning of the rain season in November. Compound fertilizers are ap-
plied and insecticides (Aldrin or ])DT) used when necessary; eelworm is
controlled by the use of nematoci,de. The principal tobacco varieties
are K51 and white gold and seed is bulked in the Tumbi Research Station.
1/   Aromatic tobacco (somietimes known as "Turkisli" or oriental) was grown
by smallholders until 1968: as a result of problems of marketing and
quality it is no longer grown.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.        Harvesting commences at the end of January and continues until
March. Adequate barn accommodation is essential and three barns are re-
quired for each farm of two acres. (It is estimated that under the pre-
sent system of smallholder production, there is a current loss of 407
during harvesting and curing, due to lack of barn accommodation and damln
and leaking barns and grading sheds). After curing the tobacco is graded
and baled ready for sale. Bales have ranged in size from under 100 lb to
nearly 200 lb but with the introduction of an auction sale system, re-
placing the present direct sale to the Tanganyika Tobacco Board, they
will be standardized at abotut 180 lb.
6.        Maize would be planted in November with an anplication of sul-
olhate of ammonia to supplement the residual fertilizer from the previous
tobacco crop.
Labor Requirements
7.        Some farmers with small or young families may find it necessary
to hire labor in March and November for transplanting and harvesting re-
spectively; under normal circumstances, however, the farmer with his fam-
ily should be able to look after twTo acres of tobacco and two acres of
maize.



TANZANIA FLUE CURED TOBACCO PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
    MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
I           MINISTER
l                                                                                   X
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CREDIT                                                         PRINCIPAL SECRETARY                                                                  TANGANYIKA TOBACCO BOARD
AGENCY                                                                      ICHIEF AGRICULTURAL OFFICER   __________                                              CHAIRMAN
I                                                                                                                        i
l                                                                      SENIOR AGRICUITURAL OFFICER                       I          ------           --      CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
l                                                                        (TIOBACCO )                I                              |                         CHIEF ACCOUNTANT
l                                                                                   i                              TOBACCO COORDINATING                      CHIEF MARKETING OFFICER
_                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMMITTEE 
COOPERATIVE SOCIETIES                              r ----           -OBACCO PROJECT OFFICER                      _CUTTEE                                                                          I
I                                                    CH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IEFl EXEUTIVE OFFICE  TTB
I                                            I       CHIEF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   MARKETING O.FICE. TTR
I  CHIEF AGRICULTURAL OFFCER
l      SEHNOFR AGRICULTURAL OFFICER                     TAN2ANIA TOBACCO
_  _ oBAcco)                                   PROCESSING COMPANY
L. TOBACCO PROJECT OFFICER
REGIONAL TOBACCO                                                               MANAGER NACA
REPRESETATIVE  MINSTRY OF
COORDINATING COMMITTEES                                                             REGIONAL ADMINISTRATION
TABORA AND MBEYA                                                                 A.. RURAL DEVELO-MENT                          MORORO TOBACCO
REGIM    C    Issl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                                                        UTINFLOOR
REGIONAL COMMISSIONER
REGIONAL CHAIRMAN TANU PARTY
REGIONAL DIRECTOR OF
AGRICULTURE
TOBACCO PROJECT OFFICER
SENIOR RESEARCH OFFICER
SENIOR PLANNING OFFICER
ASSISTANT TOBACCo PROJECT
OF FICER
r~~~ _ _ _                                                    __                                                                                          I
|                     ~~~~~~~ADMINISTRATION ONLY
TUMBI RESEARCH STATION
ACCOUNTS BRANCH                      ( Controlled by DireAND TRAINING CENTER                                            TABORA REGION                             TABORA REGION                             MBEYA REGION
ACCOUNTS BRANCH            (~~CotroIIRd by Di-tURo                    PLANNING BRANCH                     (PiAjRC SUIlEO Tolo  DiIKiUI                 (N-, I"SjRC Sobs-                    (All SCh-IR Ch-IyO DiWIHI)
oE R..o,d7 cmd TWioing )                                                      All Sthemes Mpcndc Disict)                   THboGH Ditrict )
SENIOR RESEARCH  OFFICER               ...R -A--  --R                          ASSISTANT TOBACCo PROJECT               ASSISTANT TOBACCO PROJECT                ASSISTANT TOBCO PROJECT
SENIOR ACCOUNTANT                                                                                                       OFFICER                                  OFFICER                                 OFFICER
AD-MNISTRATIVE                                                                SUROFFICER                              COOPERATIVE OFFICER                     COOPERATIVE OFFICER                      COOPERATIVE OFFICER            C
--RTM.                      ~~~~~~I TRAINING OFFIER                 2LNI...S.YTF 
SUPPORTINGSTAFFIRPLANNING AND SURVEY STAFF  SUPPORTING EXTENSION                SUPPORTING EXTENSION                     SUPPORTING EXTENSION           Z
SUPPORTING STAFF                                                                 ANR  OTHER STAFF                        AND OTHER STAFF                          AND OTHER STAFF              X
IBRD - 4756(2R1






TANZANIA
FLUE-CURED TOBACCO PROJECT
ProJect Phasing: 1970/71-1?974/75
Tabora Region                     Mbeya Region                           Total
(IncludigTa and Mpanda                  (CTaa strict)
Distxa' ots)           __ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _   _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  Cuioulative
Coaulcxes C eaWd Villages Opened  Copl,exes piened Villages Opened  (ongplexes Opened  Villages Opened  Total of j
Anwl                              A mall            muallz           Anrally          Anmnally       Settlers
1970/71        2               12                  1               6                  3               18          1,800
1971/72        4               22                  2              11                  6               33          5,100
1972/73        3               22                  1              11                  4i              33          8,.400
1973/74        1               22                  1              11                  2               33         11,700
19714/75        -              22                  -              11                  3-              3          15,000
10             100                  5              5                 15              150         15,000
1/ Cumlative total of settlers recruited in May and Jue each year.
Notez 10 villages (each of 100 farmers) comprise one complex and each complex has its own Headquarters with
administrative and extension staff; in each village there are two Extension Officers in the first
year of cultivation, one in the second and thereafter. The 1,000 farmers in one complex will be
served on average by one Cooperative Society.



TAN ZAN D.
FLUE-CUEE rliAvCI P9 TECT
Pro e cX ice ts
('00 7 TSh)
ploum ELUQMXE
1970/73    1971/72   1972/73   1973/77   1977t75   1             'Sub-Tal              T797719 9970                                            -1979n9  071ot  y  1o -
A. Credit                                                                                                                         -                                                _j__ _       197 /79
NDCA Financial Specialle2/                  -          120        120       120       _         _             360               -         -        -              360             270         270
Increismital Season Credit On-Farm          .          603      1,709     2,3i,'    2,46t    2.50           9,619            1,436       330       165        _1,550             7,700       9,2b0
Incre,ntal Seasonal Credit,
Cooperatives                              _           63        l7;,      232       230       232          935               115       -          -          1,050               840         940
Medius-Ter Credit On-Fars                   _        1,36e      2,916     3,631i    h,221   ,  1?2.        6,626              1,716       858       -          19,200     -      9,980      11,520
B. Settlement ITnfr,strwture
Farth-Moving Ihiits, Roads and
Water Supply (Dams)                     1,070        760        360       360       360       -           2,510               -         -         -           2,510            1,l50       1,750
Water Supply (Wells)                        265        595        595       595       595                   2,645               -         -         -           2,615            I,000       1,000
Staff Housing and Other
Buildings                                 870      1,700      1,280       860       430       -           5,140               _-                  -           5,140            1,300       1,300
Staff Vehicles and Other
Equipment                                 4550       900        630       300        10       _           2,260                         -         -           2,260            2,030       2,030
tstendan Service COets During
Derelopment Period Only                   920      2,560      3,72G     4,480    r,,870     4,070        20,620             3,050     2,030     1,020        26,720            2,630       3,360
C. ProJect Headquartrs
Staff Salaries                            1,080 3/   1,780      1,080     1,080     1080        350         5,750               260      180         90         6,280            1,160       1,160
Other Operating Costs                       210_       210        210       210       210       140        1,190                100        70        30         1,390              620         720
Housing and Other Buldings                1,360        -          -         -         -         -           1,360               -         -         -           1,360              3140        3140
Vehicles and Other Equipinnt                203)/                 --                            -             203               -         -         -             203              180         180
New Settler MEpenses                         583,      106        106         6       106       -             482               -         -         -             1482              75          75
Aeria Survey                                250_       250        -                                           600               -         -         -                 _50          450         45D
D. Research asn  Training
Housing and Other Buildings               1,260        -          -                                         1,260               -         -         -           1,260              320         320
Vehicles and Other  puiment                 240        -          _         _         _         _             240               -         -         -             240              220         220
.Staff Salaries, Subsistence, Atc.           870        870        870       870       870       -          4,350                -                   -           4,350            2,000       2,000
Other Operating Costs                       250        250        250       250       256       -           1,250               _    -              -           1,250              360         360
E. St-rage. Processing and Ation Floor
Storage, Upcomitry                          -          -        3,000       -         -         -           3,000               -         -         -           3,000            1,500       1,500
Stcragp, Morogoro                           -          -        3,007b      -         _         -           3,000               -         -         -           3,000            150W        1,500
Processing Facility Extension             4,000        -          -      10,000       -         -          14,000               -         -         -          14 000           12,o00      1,500
Auction Floors                              -        6,000        -         -         -         -           6,ooo               -         -         -           6,000            3,00       3,0o0
Chief Marketing Officer& Chief Accountant  2           280        280 280             280       -           1,4oo               -         -         -           I,_               1,1,       1,000
Feasibility Study                           50         -          -         -         -         -                                                                                              400  -  -  -  500  1,0  400
Total                                         1&.36 1l._15  2O.33li   25,87      82    11,666       10 0                6,677     3416      1,305       116,650           DUQ 5   7 13
IJS'$000 Equivalent                 1,979      2,1,21     2L847     3,623     ?,237     1,618        14,728               935       485       182        16,330            7,435        8,
1/ fisbursement period for IDA credit.
2/ Since this Annex was prepared, it has been decldsd to finance the continued eqfloyuent of
the expatriate NOCA Chief Accountant, at a tot-1 oost of about T Sh 360,o0o.
3/ Up to some T Sh 400,000 of these amonts night be expended in the period March 15 - June 30,1970.
September 3, 1970



ANNEX 5
TANZANIA
FLUE-CURED TOBACCO PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE L
Amount Expected to be          Undisbursed Amount
Quarter Ending                            Disbursed During Quarter        at end of Quarter
(US$ tOOO)                  (US$ '000)
December 31, 1970 -/                                                          9,000
March 31, 1971                                       350                      8,650
June 30, 1971                                        600                      8,050
September 30, 1971                                   360                      7,690
December 31, 1971                                    420                      7,270
March 31, 1972                                       270                      7,000
June 30, 1972                                        410                      6,590
September 30, 1972                                   550                      6,040
December 30, 1972                                    530                      5,510
MarTh 31, 1973                                       260                      5,250
June 30, 1973                                        440                     1h,Rlo
September 30, 1973                                   610                      4,200
December 31, 19?3                                    700                      3,500
March 31, 1974                                       340                      3,160
June 30, 1974                                        520                      2,640
Sept-ember 30, 1974                                  710                      1,930
Decemrlber 31, 1974                                  500                      1,430
.Iarch    31, 1975                                   110                      1,320
June 3D, 1975                                        270                      1,050
September 30, 1975                                   500                        550
December 31, 1975                                    460                         90
March 31, 19762Y                                      90                          0
As.,umnes disbursements from IDA Credit will take place in quarter followin-:
actual expenditures.
/ Assumes credit will become effective on about December 31, 1970, so that no
disbursements can be ;nade before then.
j Proposed closing date is September 30, 1976.
September 8, L970






ANNEX 6
TABLE I
TANZANIA
FLUE-CURED TOBACCO PROJECT
SUMMARIZED AUDITED BAlANCE SHEETS OF THE
TA  ANIA, TOBACCO BOARD MB          -
(,As or December 31)
1965      1966      1967      1968      196/ 3/
(T Sh '000) 
Liabilities
General Fund-                    1,622      4,363     5,475     6,919    4,46i
NDCA loan                          655        -         -         700       579
Current liabilities
and provisions                 3,708        370     3,578     33322     j93
Total Liabilities        53985      ,733       ,03               20973
Assets
F'ixed assets                      _          216       406     1,337    1,588
Tanzania Tobacco Pro-
cessing Company                  -        1,769     2,029     3,388    4,636
Stocks - Flue-cured tobacco      3,299          7       -         623    7,429
- Aromatic tobacco          286       714        557        88       88
- Fire-cured tobacco        -          -       3,106       867    5,h66
- Other                     -         179        174        73        56
Cash and Bank balances              63        861         1     4,014        -
Sundry debtors and deposits,
less provisions                2,337        987     2,780       551    1.710
Total Assets       4      ,985      4,733     9,053    10 941-2027i
1/  Breakdown of General Fund can be made as follows:
a) Accumulated surplus on flue-
cured tobacco trading:   1,862      5,632      8,392    11,750     9,392
b)  Accumulated (deficit) on
fire-oured tobacco trading: -           (7)   (i,432)   (2,770)   (3,300)
c) Accumulated (deficit) on
aromatic tobaoco tradings  (303)   (1,184)   (1,543)   (2,173)   (2,132)
d) Accumulated surplus (defioit)
of TTB leVy leas adxdAit-
trative expness:             63        (78)                112       501
Total                    1.622     h,363                  2.619
2/  A deficit ofabout T Sh 2 million (US$ 0.3 million) in flue-cured tobacco trading was
incuvred in 1969; this was caused by over-grading   in the field, leading to over-
payments to farmers. While steps have been taken to avoid this in the future, an
allowance for it has been made in determining the price to be paid to growers in
1970, see Annex 9.
3/ Since December 31, 1969, TTB has acquired complete control over TTPC, by
purchase of some TSh 4 million (US$ 0.6 million) of shares from the National
Development Corporation, a parastatal industrial finance company. Funds
for the purchase came from a Government loan of the same amount.
September 10, 1970



ANNEX 6
TABLE 2
TANZANIA
F -CUR$D TOBACCO PROJECT
SUMMARIZED AUDITE) BALANCE SHEETS OF THE
TANZAIA_ T-OBCCO PROCESSING C(aeAff, 1_967-.. 9
(As of December 31)
967          1968          1969
.^ _#. ( s Sh l000) ....
Liabilities
Paid-up share capital:
Held by NDCI./                            2,000         4,000         4,000
Paid-up share eapitalt
Held by TTB .'                            2,000         2,000         4,000
BAT long-term loans3/                      1,500          3,100         2,950
Acwumalated qurpLus
(Losses) f!
Current liabilities and
proviaions                                  36          2,040         2,815
Total Liabilities                  L.56            .14         13,765
Assets
Fixed assets                               4,743          8,496        10,536
Current assets                               553          1,796         2,550
Pre-operational e3enditure
carried forward/                           240            848           679
Total Assets                       553611 140                  13765
I/  NDC: National Dwmvlopomt Oorporatiou, 100% Governmnt-ownedl this holding
has since been sold to TTB.
2/ TTB: Tangary.ika Tobaoco Board; this holding has since been increased to
T Sh 8 million.
3/ For the purchase of machinry from BAT (Tanzania) Ltd., a parastatal body
owned 60% by the Tansazda Government and 40% by the British-American
Tobaoco CoWpazy of the U.K.
4/ No trading in 1967j operating losses in 1968 anz  1969 of T Sb 940,000 and
T Sh 493,000, respectively, based on operating fee of 45 centsAb, paid
oft by TTB out of its accwmilated flun-cured tobacco trading surplus.
5/ These pro-operational and proliiidary expenses are being written off over
five years.
September 3, 1970



ANNEX 7
TANZANIA
FUE-CURED TOBACCO PROJECM
THE NATIONAL DEVEOFNENr CREDIT AGENCY
Institutional Framework
1.    The National Cooperative and Development Bank (NCDB), the National
Cooperative Bank (NCB) and the National Development Credit Agency (NDCA) were
established by an Act of Parliament in 1964. Their main features are as
follows:
(a) NCDB is a holding compary with two wholly-owned sub-
sidiaries, NOB and NDCA. Its Chairman is appointed
by the NInister of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives,
and he serves also as Chairman of the two other institu-
tions. The paid-in capital, amounting to T Sh 3.57
million, has been subscribed by the majority of cooper-
ative unions and primary societies (some 1,500). NCDB
controls and coordinates the operations of its two
subsidiaries.
(b) NCB has a paid-in capital of T Sh 4.04 million contri-
buted and fully paid by NCDB. It finances the short-
term commodity needs of Tanzanian cooperatives.
gc) NDCA has a paid-in capital of T Sh 20,000 contributed
and fully paid by NCDB. Its official objective is to
provide and to facilitate the provision of credit for:
agricultural purposes and enterprises; marketing and
processing agricultural products; developing and
encouraging small industries and trades; and developing
cooperative distribution services.
2.    The Government has announced that a Rural Development Bank is to be
established before the end of 1970 and that NDCAts functions, assets and
liabilities will be absorbed by the new Bank. Since the Government intends
that the Rural Development Bank will assume NDCAts responsibilities for the
Smallholder Credit Project (Credit 80-TA) and the credit aspects of the
presently proposed Flue-Cured Tobacco Project, discussions have started
between IDA and Government to ensure that the intended change will not
adversely affect either project. Although the precise details of the new
Bank's capital and legal structure have not yet been finalized, it is known
that the new Bank will take over the NDCA staff currently involved in the
lending program to the flue-cured tobacco sector, and continue NDCA's
general lending policies to that sector.
Organization and Nanagenent of NDCA
3.    NDCA is managed by a Commdttee which includes;
(a) The Chairman of NCDB;
(b) one representative of the Ministry of Finance;



ANNEX 7
(c) two representatives of the Mini9stry of Agriculture,
Food and Cooperatives, one from the Agriculture Division,
the second from the Cooperative Division;
(d) a representative of the Cooperative tTniorn of Tangazrika;
(e) the General Manager of NCB; and
(f) the Manager of NDCA.
The Yanager of NDCI. is appointed by the ~,Qrmdttee -vrith the right to take part
in the proceedings of t6he Comru'ittee but not the right to vote. lie i.5 respons-
ible for the da&-to-.da;g ad.'Lnistration of the Agency.
4.    NDCA headquarters have five sections   aoc_-ianting; appraisal and
procurenEnt; le-ll processing; rogistry an  t,yp ing pool. It is current
NDCA poli-S Y to  i-c:i.hc. .ts field staff and foxr *Thi- p-xrpose minland
TRnzan'-ia 'ba- bee7 d rid.eJ. into thrfte zon-ls epsc. in cri    of'  a principal
credit suzervisor r'tationed Ix. M4wanzan Arisha ai    a o   in addition, sax
rogional offices headed by serior credit sapervisors and 12 district offices
staffed with crod2- aapervf.sors are bei   openoch  (By June 1970, four
regional and vOx _F<;:.Ct ofrices i"ero aeeac   r -
5.    Accounting practicos are se.t' sfactory. !nternal auditing cons.. s'ts
of a monthly reconciliation oi statenents an-= is the resocnsibility of the
Accounting SoctV.ion. Ezternal au2iting is satisfactory and carried out by
Cooper Brother- rS ;ormaFrl a firm of auditors of internationial standing.
6.    Recruitment of staff requires approval from the Central Establishment
Division of the Presidentts Office with salary scales similar to those for
other parastatal bodies. As of Septemnber 30, 1969, staff numbered 108, in-
cluding 20 senior officers, of which six were expatriates, two of whom were
replaced by Tanzanians in December 1969. A current vacancy is a financial
analyst responsible for analysing cooperative union and society finances
and accounts, and for giving the cooperatives financial management advice.
It is considered essential that an experienced person should be recruited to
fill this post, both in the interest of the project and other NDCA activities,
and a condition of the proposed IDA credit would be the appointment of a
financial analyst whose qualifications and experience for the post are
considered satisfactory by IDA. Provision has been made in project costs for
employment of an expatriate in this post for three years following an initial
period financed under Credit 80-TA; provision has been made for continuing
the employment of the expatriate Chief Accountant.
Lending Policy
7.    All applications for loans are considered on their merits and no
fixed conditions exist. Loans are available to individuals, agricultural
associations and cooperatives and, under exceptional circumstances, to
companies, Government Departments and statutory bodies.
Individual Loans
8.    It is Government policy to promote cooperative effort by farmers.
Accordingly, NDCA rejects most individual loan applications with the following
exceptions:



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(a) large-scale tobacoo farmers in Iringa who benefit
from short-term loans;
(b)  small African farmers who might obtain medium and
long-term loans for tractors, irrigation equipment,
small processing machinery, crop establishment, and
farm purchase; and
(c) rural commercial loans for the financing of fixed
assets such as rice and maize mills, carpentry equip-
ment.
Agricultural Associations
9.    Twenty farmers or more may register as an agricultural association
and, after one year, apply for a loan.  Loans are given for the financing
of current inputs, cultivation equipment (tractors, ploughs) and small
processing equipment, and for the purchase of farms.
Cooperatives (Unions and Primary Societies)
10.    Loans to cooperatives are by far the most important current operations.
NDCA distributes loans to farmers through cooperatives for seasonal inputs
and investments and to cooperatives for the financing of movable and fixed
assets.
Terms and Conditions
II.    Short-term loans are given for one year, medium-term loans are up to
five years and long-term loans are up to 15 years. Interest rates are
currently as follows:
IDA Credit
80-TA Loans   Other Loans
Short-term             'IV               8i0
Medium and long-term    7 %              7ut
Interest on short-term loans is calculated on a daily basis and computed
quarterly; interest on medium and long-term loans is included in annuities.
There are no penalty rates in case of default, but NDCA charges application
and legal fees. Funds from the presently proposed IDA credit are to be on-
lent by NDCA at 8V interest for short, medium and long-terms.
12.    There are no uniform rules for interest charged by Unions and
Societies to farmers for on-lent funds. Some of them absorb the cost of
interest paid to NDCA, which is considered as a service to the farmers, others
add a margin of 2 or 3% to the NDCA rate to cover their administrative costs.
It is the usual practice for tobacco cooperatives to pass on the interest to
farmers at cost, and to recoup overhead costs out of a levy on tobacco sales.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Securities
13.   Individual loans are generally secured by a chattel mrtgage on
movable assets and a land mortgage. Where possible, NDCA obtains irrevocable
orders to collect the loans out of the proceeds of crop sales, as is the
case with the tobacco cooperatives; for political reasons, loans to associa-
tions cannot be secured in this way. Loans to Unions and Societies are
secured by a floating debenture over all assets.
Lending Procedures
14.   Individual Loans. Credit applications are prepared with the assistance
of the Credit Supervisor and, if requested, a farm report in support of the
application will be prepared by the District Agricultural Officer. The
application, after payment of a fee, is then examined by the Appraisal Section
in Headquarters, which in turn reports to the Manager who has the power to
reject the application or to recommend approval to his Committee.
15.   Associations, Unions and Societies. Applications are forwarded to
NDCA Headquarters with confidential reports from the Registrar of Cooperatives,
the Agricultural Credit Supervisor, the Regional Agricultural Officer and the
Regional Cooperative Officer. At Headquarters, the application is processed
by the Legal Section which checks the Maximum of Liability Certificate issued
by the Registrar and the minutes of the Association, Society or Union General
Meeting approving the application. All documents are then reviewed by the
Appraisal Section which in turn comments to the Manager; a final decision
rests with the Committee after consideration of the Manager's recommendations.
16. Disbursements and Repaymerns. Wherever possible, disbursements are
in kind, and NDCA procures all seasonal inputs which are purchased in bulk
after consolidation of items required by Unions and cooperatives. Repayments
are, wherever possible, linked to marketing. In case of default on individual
loans, NDCA can go to court and is entitled to ask for the farm to be sold.
It is more difficult to take action against Unions and Societies, ,but NDCA
can request the Reglstrar of Cooperatives to bring pressure to bear on
delinquent societies.
Operations and Financial Position
17.   Tables 1 through 7 give information on lending operations and financial
position of NDCA. On March 31, 1970, the as yet unaudited draft accounts
show an accumulated deficit of T Sh 36.0 million (1969: 30.9), mainly due to
the large amounts that need to be set aside as provision for bad debts and
which are chargeable to each year's income. The total of overdue accounts,
including accumulated unpaid interest, is shown as T Sh 36.9 million (1969:
34.5). or 42% of the overall portfolio (1969: 42% also). Of this total,
overdue accounts under Credit 80-TA operations account for T Sh 2.7 million
(1969: 2.4), or 16% of the total Credit 80-TA portfolio (1969: 15%); these
figures are not necessarily representative of the future, however, since
many medium and long-term loans under Credit 80-TA are still within the grace
period.



ANNEC 7
Page 
18.   The poor financial condition of NDCA is largely due to the high
proportion of bad loans irierited from its predecessor organizations and
Government lending programs, as well as to the general conditions under vhich
NDCA has to operate. NDCA lends mainly to agricultural cooperatives and their
unions, whose management and staffing is often weak and whose members lack
adequate technical advisory services. NDCA has in the past lacked senior
staff able to analyse a potential borrower's financial status and, at the
same time, to provide the necessary advice leading to future improvements,
such as making adequate provisions for future debt repayments - which
currently suffer because of delays in marketing of crops, and because of
admlnistrative incompetence.
19.   Government has been considering ways and means of correcting the
present situation and has decided to reform NDCA into a Rural Development
Bank, with a revised capital structure and wider responsibilities (see para
2 above). In preparation for this reformation, Government has authorized
NDCA to place some T Sh 26.3 million of bad debts, with a corresponding
amount of liabilities, into a suspense account and intends to transfer to the
Rural Development Bank only those NDCA assets and liabilities which it
considers t)live ". To further strengthen NDCA's financial position, Govern-
ment injected an additional T Sh 10.4 million from the 1969t70 development
budget. Provision for a further T Sh 12 million has been made in the 1970t71
development budget to further strengthen NDCA's (Rural Development Bank's)
equity base. Table 8 shows the pro forma, and as yet unaudited, balance
sheet of NDCA, as of April 1, 1970, after the suspense account adjustment
has been made.
20.   Further strengthering of NDCA should occur with the appointment of
the finanial analyst (see para 6 above). The main means for improving NDCA's
performance (and for ensuring the performance of the Rural Development Bank),
however, lies in utilizing its credit facilities in projects such as this
integrated tobacoo project, whch includes other essential elements besides
just credit, such as extension services, assistance to cooperative manage-
mont and financially attractive farming operations.
September 4, 1970






NATIONAL DElELOPMNT CREDIT AGEN5T
SIWARY OF LOAN APPLICATIONS RECEIVED AND APPROVED
(Anoumts in thousaud T Shillings)
1966/67                                       1967/68                                         1968/69                                       1 6P/0O
Nuaber            Aeount                    Nutbar                Axoumt                    N'ber                 Ajoxmt                              %S/7         unt
Losu epplicatiume usder consideratimu at the
beginning of the year                                 463               94,988                    3hO                  11,749                     95                   10,761                     33                   8,301
Loan applicatimx  received during the yer                 362               53,282                    153                  29,416                    138                   35,884                    ll                   35oz22
Sub-Total                            825              148,270                    493                  41,165                    233                  46,645                                         h1   2
Love applicatimxa
a) Approved during the year                         113                32,320                     57                  17,183                     76                   20,392                                         21,208
b) Rejected                                           70                3,573                    332                  12,678                     119                  16,198                     52                   12,612
c) Withdrem                                          302              101,228                      9                     543                       5                   1,755                     20                    4.261
485              137,121                    398                  30.404                     ?00                  38.345                    1                     38.081
Loan applications,under consideration at the
end of the year                                       340               11.11,9                    95                  10,761                      33                   8.300                     33                    52
September 8, 1970(



26T706 D221107Y92?151RiDI AW.811
SNdb2 OF L!3D OP7TISII
G____-                                      1                                                                                                                                             -      17/63  L96/69  ;9   '967/63         1968/69
A) U00.- NDCk 8..o
89021-8.2.                             29                  7,b39           21                8,654           36               12,567           58                17,119                   17                 6,779            19                   7,b79            24                 7.117          31                11,000
lIdib"-  md l~-U                        63                 5,23h            26       I         ,1      S     I        S        42 993          LO                 4,518                   436                64639            378                  429b                                4,378         R27 13
Sbo.tol                          92                32,673            b7               10.169           78               17,555           S                 21.63                   1,53               13.618            397                 11.83            318                11.79S                            14113
9) bnftr ID  02.8t 80-TA
8601.1-102.                             6                  6,261            3                2,118           -                 1,583            -                 4,832                  _                   3,736            -                    1,21.2           -                  1,516         _                  6.608
1                   559             4                  637            2                 139            -                   368                    1                   SS9             -                    _               _                     I2         _                    822
1.1.21-6...                            10                  3.778            5                3,009            1                2,6             _                                                                 6 _  h5     __                                                           2          - 29
306b-806.3                       17                 1                12                5,657                             4 4,191                            6.857                    1                 3.O._                                1,276             -                  1  a7        _                     O
0,.6d Sotol                      109                25.271          5L9j              156826           81               2L753            68                28.4S                   4561               379178           3                   12.759          32                     38        15S
SePtu2-b r



IH
'C,  N
-9  -                                 _
o                                                                                         -

'
f                          I
H                                          I                                             I
'4'                                        I-*                                                      0
  i                 'A                  0    '
CA HH  '00a-0-'                             0
I                                             I                   *
I                                             I
CA                                 -  '0                                         
* 4' .4 '0I.I                              a       CA4Oa'O'a-'0
* ----------.-.---- .-.,---,------,-----..----.------ a
I                                             I
a                                                                                                                            H
.      '-a
a                                                                                        0
*                                             N
a                                                                                        0
a                                   I                                              I
 ' a *0a,,i,,gra,                     I  
a                                   5----  -.                                      N
--                             -------.-
*                                   
a                                                                                  I
I                                             I
5                                      .4
I                                             I
*                                   a                                              I                                            0-
-                             0        o  .,
I                                    0                 **a-a
I   
a         ISIttSSSIg*,I,9                     -           -,                        --      4
I-'       -  -
a                                                                                  I                                          N
a                                             a
1                                    '0
ak'  I."                            a-'
III aI,,,,,,a,                      *IIIIaIIrhrh,,,,g                   I
a-  -                                -        a                              0C.
a                                             I
*                                             a
g                                             a
1                                             a
a                                             I
a                                                                                 I
-         I
are rectal                    1    aar,aaaagaaaa,o, , H   I a.aa,,,,r
1-.                                           I
I                                   I                                             I
Hi                                       I                                              I
0    1                                        -
I                                                 a
* 
a                                   j
[j:
a
I-
*                                   I                                             a
N                                             a
 UAWf



TALNZIAU
THE NLTICALL DiVSL0W  EMU AianCY
LOAN PoHOFCLIO FCl THE TiR DMiED DH. 1970
1UNJ                     salaam as as          New Lome end             Trnsfor and                                             Trasfer and                           1
CaTB0R0S                        D1 19       6        DLebureinnt           Adwtaita _l _t _                        _t
She                    She              __s                 She                She                9Sh
1. SHOR8-TZN
(a) D       1
piJ   Sce~mm                  62    5,737,6S6         -       -                -  13,ijBl,926     19t222,d22      31  10,955,023      -   2,200,000          13,155.023        1 6    .'5e9
(ii) carot  sac               33   UI466.295         58  17,119,389           _        -          28.585,684       -      44,969      -  12.287.926          12.332.895       S   16.3.70
Sub Totl                95   17,203.991        58  17.119.389            -  13,487,926      47,811.306      31  10.999.S92       -  1"4I87.926         25,.487.918      122  22.J1,388
2.  MIUDM & LOW-?l
(a)  x Lard Beak                  96    4,718,118              -                   -        1,047       4,719,165     12      536,458      -      205,451            741,909       84    3,77,256
(b) A.P.LJ (Coa_p.rtive)           6        39,314         -                       _        _              39,314      -           71      _ -                            71        6       39,21,3
(c) A.P.L.F (Co ral)            197    1,669,172          8      302,690          -       55,745       2,027,987      3      238,714      -        _               236,71k       20l    1, 7"2?3
(d) Co-oprt.ie Amo1Ivng L.F.   37    2,644,172             -                                            2,6h4,172      -        -          _        _                 -            37   I,db,172
(e) Local Deelopment LJ.          110      126,313         -       _               _        -             126,313      3        3,616      -        -                  3,616      107      122,697
(f) Trcttre                        88   11,625,4,77        -       -               -      115, 0Th     1-1,71,0,551    1      86,10.3      -896,103                                87  I0,84ihk8W
(g) Deve1lcment                   390   16,7T4l Z9        32   4,214,913           -      153,340      21,112,312      5   1,329,872              156,709          i,436,5f1      la?   29,4d25.T31
(h) District                    3604    2,795,565          -       -               -        -           2.795,565    103      107,955      -        2.023            109.978     359     2.4M.587
Sub-Total             4528   40,362,540        40   4,517,633            -      325,206     45.205.379    127    3,112,789      -      364,183          3.1,76.M       hk1   h1.728.,407
3. LOAN UlD1R M  CREDIT
(a) Short-Term                     9    6,164,763          -   4,831,725           -        -          10,996,488      -   6,087,683       -      990,381,         7,078,067        9    3,91,1
(b) Lou_-Term                      7    1,245,27 35                                -      944,116       2,6,6S3        -      822,263      -        -                822,263        7   19.589.152
(c) Long-Te                       15    8,332,5,42_    1,3686,32                   -            4        9,689,163     -      822.26      -        -                822,263       7S   S1,52 
Sub-Total               31   15,742,582         _   6,856,639            -      994,120     23.593.341    158   7,309.954        -     990.381,         8.300.33P        313J93003 
4. GRAND TOTAL                       4654    73,309,113       98  28,493.661                1.807 252     16.61o.026            21.422.735     -  g.842,93            37.265.228
SeptaIbew 4, 1970



TANZANIAL
THE NATIONAL DEVELOPME2T CREIT AGENCY
RATIO CF LOAN RECOVERIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED MAIH 31 1970
LOAtN                   Owezd  At              Fallen Dfue                                                                               Total
C&TERORES                 kpril!, 1968          During tiu Tear            Total             Fbcoveries          Recoveries            Carrivd Forward
- ,hfi *    .          . .__                        .                                     Shs
1. S0ORr-ThM
(a) Developemt                        5,737,695           11,332,896              17.070.591           10.999.992           64                     6,o70,599
2. fIUM & LOW-hI-flN
(a) Ex Land Bank                      1,056,199              514,373               1,570,572             536,458             34                    1,034,114
(b) A.P,W.F. (Co-operatlve)             39,314                 -                      39,311                  71              -                       39,2143
(c) A.P,LIF. (Commercial)             1,426,117              347,422               1,773,539              238,714            13                    1,534,825
(d) Co-operative Revolving L.F.       1,063,922              372,000               1,435,922               -                  -                    1,435,922
(e) Local Developnt LJ.                 126,313                -                     126,313               3,616              2                      122,697
(C) Tractcr                           7,498,362            2,205,873               9,704,235              896,103             9                    8,808,132
(g) Develoint                         4,94a3,o86           2,339,420               7,282,506            1,329,872            18                    5,952,634
(h) mstrict                           2,777,446               15,212               2,792.658              107.955             3                    2,684,703
18,930.759            5,7914,300             214.725.o59           3.112.789            -                    21,612,270
3. LWOU til I.D.. CMEIT
(a) Short-term                        2,889,686            3,965,133               6,854,819            6,087,683            88                      767,136
(b) Medium-term                          63,887              992,868               1,056,755              822,263            77                      234,492
(e) Lmg-term                            190,821              847,756               1.038,577          _ 4ho.008              38                      638,569
3,1144,394           5,805,757               8.950.151            7.309.95              -                    1,640,197
14. BD DOTS LGER,1S
(a) Ex Lani Bank                      3,695,290                -                   3,695,290              502,557            13                    3,192,733
(b) A.P.L.F. Cocial                      34,294                                       314,2914                200             -                       34,094
(c) A.D.LJ.                             623,056                                      623,056               26,970             4                      596,086
(d) Development                          39,685                                       39,685                1,333             3                       38,352
(e) District                            2145,601               -                     145,601                7.030             4                      138,571
4,537,926                                   14,537,92,              538,090             -                    3,999,836
(f) TRIASf CREDIT LAND BANK           3,736,693                -                   3,736,693                -                 -                     3,736,693
801,233            _                         801,233              538.090             -                      263,143
5.  RAND FTIAL                           28,614,08            22,932,953              51,547,034           21.960.825             -                   29.586,209
September 4, 1970






ANNEX 7
TABLE 6
PAGE 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL DEVELOPIENT CREDIT AGENCY
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
(in T Sh'OOO)
.................. .As of.,...... (Unaudited)
3/31/67      3/31/68       3/31/69      3/31/70
ASSETS
Loans authorized but not yet issued           -            2,246         3,o46       2,1-2
Loans not yet due                           42,601        42,136        44,450      47,8S8o
Loans due for repayment                     15,682        21 ,612       2B,614      29_566
58,283       65,994        76,110       79,608
Interest receivable:
not yet due                                 _             _             _
overdue                                    2,756         4,700        5,867       7,316
Total Loans and Interest               61,039        70,694        81,977      86,924
Provision for bad and doubtful debts        15,840        25,175        33,953       39,103
Portfolio (net)                        45,199        45,519       48,024       47,761
Farm properties                                 o5            58            50           i43
Staff houses                                   270           289           301          325
Furniture - equipment                          103            84            78           37
438          431           429          455
Farm properties                              2,400         2,400         2,400        2,40o
Agricultural equipment                         228           193            50            3
Government of Tanzania                       1,030           720         1,059        1,826
Sundry debtors and pre-payments                276           310           210          4'S4
Cash and bank balance                          1,512             8             7       -l4
5,446        3,631         3,726        4,707
TOTAL ASSETS                           51,083        49,581        52,179      52,923



ANNEX 7
TABIE 6
PAGE 2
TANZANIA
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGENCY
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
(in T Sh'OOO)
............ .As of ..       . (Unaudited)
3/31/67      3/31/68      2/31/69     3/31/70
LIABILITIES
Capital Funds
Paid-in capital                              20           20           20           20
Irredeemable loans                        8,930        8,930        8,930        8,930
Grants                                   11,949       12,437       12,)437      22,837
Surplus on devaluation                    -              502          125           48
Total Capital :Funds                  20,899       21,889       21,512      31,835
Less:  Accumulated deficit              jl,04         23,081       30,931      35,987
5,89N       (1,192)      (9,419)     (4,152)
Government Loans                           14,998       19,685       33,266       35,782
Medium-Term Liabilities
Deposits                                    18h           35           33          282
Bills payable                             3,479          751          284           19
3,681          786          317         301
Current Liabilities
Bills payable                             3,645        2,261          467          271
Loans authorized but not yet issued        -           2,246        3,046       2,132
Short-term deposits                      21,244       17,736        7,511       6,830
Sundry creditors and accured charges      1,557        1,889        2,383       3,019
NCDB and NCB                                 63          277          618         654
Government of Tanzania                     -             848          848         848
Bank overdraft                             -5_045                  13,142        7.239
'26,509      30,302        28.015      20,992
TOTAL LIABILITIES                    51,083        49,581       52,179      52,923
September 9, 1970



ANNEX 7
TANZANIA
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGENCY
CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATING INCOME AND EXPNDITURE
(in T Sh '000)
(Unaudited)
1966/67    1967/68    1968/69      1969/70
INCCME
Interest on loans                        3,462       4,342      4,713        4,780
Income from investment                      _           38        133          -
Fees received                                30         17         18           23
Other income                                07         217        424          ill
Total Income                  3,614  55988    4                            4l%92
EXPENDITURE
Interest on deposits                      1,048        921        648          310
Interest on banlc overdrafts                110        213        461           555
Interest on loan capital                    286        285        435          497
Interest on IDA credit                      134        463        610          918
1,578      1,882      2,154        2,340
Administrative expenditure                1,292      1,257      1,473        1,790
Contribution to NCDB expenses               155        144        124          137
Bad debts less recoveries written off        811/        5        523           31
Provision for bad and doubtful debts      1,241-    9,335       8,778        5,217
Depreciation                                 54         52         59           54
Stock written off                                       13         32            3
Total Expenses                        4,401     12,688     13,143        9,571
Surplus (Deficit)                      (842)    (8,074)    (7,855)      (4,658)
1/ This amount was increased by T Sh 6.1 million (following the auditor's
suggestion) so as to bring total provisions up to T Sh 15.8 million.
September 8, 1970






TAN WlIA~~AN
ThAlZANIA
nlUE-CURD TOBACCO PROJECT
Projected Balance Shoet as at April 1, 1970
(in T shO000)
(Based on unaudited balance sheet as at March 31, 1970
as per table 8 and showing various adjustments con-
cerned with the transfer of bad debts and corresponding
liabilities into suspense accounts prior to their eli-
mination).
Capital: Net deficit       (4,152)                    Total Loans and Interest            86,924
Add Provision for                                      Less Transfer of Bad Debts
[3ad Debt Transfer-,i                                  to Suspense below             26.3nq (6)
irom Asset side           08(1)                                                                   O,85
Less Provision for Bad Debts  39,163
Add Reversal of                                          Reduced by Transfer to
Interest previously                                    Appropriation Account         3.1,9X  (1)
owed to Gov't but now                                                                             5, 35
cancelLe i             2 088 (2)
Adjusted Loans and Interest
after deduction of adjusted
I),-duct Transfer                                        Provision for Bad Debts                   55,350
to Suspense below     14,787 (3)                     Fixed Assets
17,017              Other Assets                     4,707         h5,
LeSs set-off from
being: Adjusted Capital                                Liability Side(Comnissions
17,000                           of lands, for settlemeat oif
Devaluation Reserve                             claims)                         8848 (5)
48                                                                     38!
Appropriation AL 29
1,7-,07-7
Government Loans           35,782
Transfer to Suspense
Below                 11a552 (1)
24,230
Medium Term Liabilities                  301
Current Liabilities        20,992
Deduct Reversa of
Interest owed to
Gov't, see capital
a/c adjustuent above   2 088 (2)
Deduct set-off,
Commissions of Iends
(see Liability side)     848 (5)
18.o56
59,664                                                          59,664
Liabilities in Suspense:
From Capital Account 14,787 (3)
From Government Loan  11.55?2  )26.339                        Bad Debts in Suspense              26.339 (6)
86.o 
Note: Numbers in brackets show relationship
September 9, 1970






Annex 8
TANZANIA
FLUE-CURED TOBACCO PROJECT
TOBACCO MARKETING PROSPECTS
1.      From 1955-57 to 1965-67 1 world production of tobacco, excluding
Mainland China, increased at a yearly rate of about two percent and
reached 8.6 billion pounds in 1965-67 (Table 1). While complete data on
tobacco production, consumption and trade are not available for the years
after 1967, partial estimates indicate that demand has continued to expand
in the past three years.
2.      About half the world's tobacco production consists of flue-cured
and burley leaf. Both types are almost exclusively used in cigarette
manufacture. Flue-cured tobacco accounts for about 35 percent of world
tobacco production and burley, for about 15 percent.  The remainder con-
sists of oriental leaf (30 percent) and cigar and pipe tobacco 0/. The
proposed project will provide flue-cured tobacco and the following analy-
sis is therefore concentrated mainly on this type of leaf.
3.      Developing countries experienced the largest growth in production
and exports of all tobaccos. In 1965-67 output in these countries had
almost reached the levels prevailing in the developed countries. Output
and export expansion in all countries (developing and developed) was al-
most entirely due to increases in the production and trade of flue-cured
and burley tobaccos. Favorable prices encouraged area expansion and
increased use of fertilizer and other inputs, which resulted in increases
in yields. Other factors included:
(a) Rising world demand for blended cigarettes;
(b) Increases in U.S. support prices, which were reflected in
higher export prices and a less favorable competitive
position for that country;
1/ The last year for which complete data on total world production and
trade of all types of tobacco are available is 1967.
2/ These various types differ in their production methods and the con-
tribution their specific characteristics make to the cigarette blend.
Flue-cured tobacco gives the flavor and aroma to the blend. Oriental
tobacco is used as an aromatic filler with low nicotine content. Its
share of the blend has to be limited; otherwise, the cigarette becomes
too strong and is rejected by consumers. Burley iz a spongy type of
tobacco whose advantage is that it absorbs additives such as flavors,
sweeteners, etc.



Annex 8
Page 2
(c) Ample supply of low-cost labor in the developing countries;
and
(d) Higher net returns per acre from tobacco than can be obtained
from other crcps.
4.      World cigarette consumption increased at 3.8 percent yearly from
1960-64 to 1968. This expansion was narticularly strong in the developing
countries (Table 2).  The current level of world cigarette output requires
about 6.5 biUlior povnds of unmanufactured leaf, or more than two-thirds
of world production.
5.      With the increase in cigarette consumption there has been a shift
towards greater consumption of American-type cigarettes. This in turn in-
creased the demand for flue-cured leaf.  American-type blends contain about
50 percent flue-cured tobacco. Other types of cigarettes contain less flue-
cured leaf and a higher percentage of oriental and dark tobaccos. Ciga-
rettes made li, ths United X-ingdom are the exception, containing 95 percent
of flue-cured :Eoba- o   The trend tooTard American types was particularly
noticeable      , `- eloped countrie3 hut was also experienced in develop-
ing courntries.
6.      The publication of medical reports on the relationship between
cigarette smoking and health has not yet resulted in any decrease in
aggregate cigarette consumption either in the developed or in the develop-
ing countries as a whole, although consumption in the United States in
1968 and 1969 did not increase. However, these reports probably resulted
in slowing the rate of growth in world demand in the past two years.
They also have helped to stimulate a trend toward filter-tipped cigarettes
(which at present account for about half of world market demand, excluding
that in the centrally planned countries). Another effect has been the
rapidly growing demand for cigarettes with low-nicotine and law-tar content.
This has become and will probably remain a decisive factor in the pur-
chasing policy of manufacturers.
7.      World exports of flue-cured tobacco expanded by 2.5 percent yearly
during 1955-59 and 1960-6)4 (Table 3). During this period leaf prices in-
creased by about 2.5 percent yearly for the better grades of flue-cured
tobacco, which are mostly supplied by the United States and Canada and by
around 0.7 percent yearly for leaf of lower quality. As a result of the
embargo on Rhodesian exports, the rate of growth of total flue-cured
tobacco exports declined to 1.6 percent yearly during 1961-63 and 1967-69.
In order to meet the expected future import demand (described below),
exports will have to increase by about 2.0 percent yearly between 1967-69
and 1980.
8.      Production developments and the political situation in Rhodesia
since 1965 have had a profound effect on production and export develop-
ments of flue-cured tobacco in the United States and other producing coun-
tries. The United States found its share of total trade declining in the



Annex 8
Page 3
early part of the 1960's as other exporting countries - particularly
Rhodesia - moved vigorously into the market. Consequently, stocks in
the United States (mostly in the hands of the Commodity Credit Corporation,
which operates a price support program for tobacco) began to accumulate.
The emergence of new exporters was favored by two major factors. One was
the continuously increasing export offering price of U.S. leaf, contrasted
with lower price increases for other producers (See Chart I). The other
factor was the increased demand for low and medium-grade flue-cured leaf,
which resulted from the rise in popularity of filter-tip cigarettes.
This type of leaf could be supplied in increasing quantities by other
exporters and at lower prices than those prevailing in the United States.
9.      The situation changed drastically with Rhodesia's unilateral
declaration of independence (UDI) in Novcmber 1965, and the resultant United
Nations embargo on Rhodesian trade. Since that time Rhodesia's tobacco
exports have sharply declined and prices for all flue-cured tobacco
began to rise steeply. Export prices for U.S. flue-cured leaf increased
by about 4.0 percent yearly between 1965 and 1968, and prices for Indian
flue-cured leaf (of a lower quality than U.S. leaf) by nearly 7.0 pcrcent
yearly. Initially, the bulk of the loss of Rhodesian supplies was made
up by increased U.S. exports at premium prices. Stocks in the United
States began to decline, although as they were still larger than normal
requirements, production restrictions remained in force. Meanwhile,
other exporting countries were rapidly increasing their production of
flue-cured tobacco and the United States is now faced with renewed world
competition in a situation similar to that which prevailed in the early
1960's. Some importing countries even began to produce more of their own
leaf requirements but this development did not have a significant effect
on overall import demand growth since it occurred mainly in developing
countries whichimport relatively small amounts.
10.    At the same time with the growing demand for low and medium-grade
leaf the smoking-versus-health controversy added additional requirements
for low-nicotine, low-tar, flue-cured tobacco. Thus both the production
and export of flue-cured tobaccos having these additional qualities
have markedly expanded in several countries, notably Brazil and South
Korea, which formerly were not so active in world trade. Although im-
porters are often dissatisfied with the quality of tobacco from these
new exporters, they are attracted to them since prices for these tobaccos
- although rising - are still considerably lower than U.S. export prices.
However, with the growth in offerings from these exporters, manufacturers
will have a wider choice and will increasingly concentrate their buying
on the better types of leaf supplied by these producers. Thus in future
the emphasis on quality among the low-priced flue-cured tobaccos will
become more and more important.
11.    Thr. flue-cured import market is dominated by Western Europe,
which takes about 85 percent of world flue-cured leaf exports. The
United Kingdom used to be the largest importer, but in recent years has
been superseded by the EEC. Japan is also rapidly becoming an important
importer (Table 4).



Anmex 8
Page h
12.     Our import projections are indicated in Table 1a. Underlying
these projections are forecasts of cigarette consumption of the major
importing consumers (Table 5). Basic stipulations in these projections
w,ere that in the United Kingdom, Japan and the EEC (a) the yearly rate
of growth of per capita cigarette consumption will decline; and (b) the
tobacco content per 1,000 cigarettes will also decline from 2.2 pounds
to 2.0 pounds. The latter assumption was made to account for the rising
use of filter cigarettes and other ingredients which operate to reduce
the leaf content in cigarettes. For the other importers in Table 5 a
simple trend extrapolation was used to estimate irport demand.
13.     The major supplier of the EEC market has traditionally been the
United States. Rhodesia supplied less than 20 percent of the EEC's
demand, and the technical adjustment process after the embargo was less
severe there than in the United Kingdom.  The EEC only produces approxi-
mately six percent of its own requirements, but even this share is being
reduced as domestic production declines. Thus future growth in flue-
cured leaf requirements will have to be supplied essentially by imports.
Our projections indicate that between 1967-69 and 1980 flue-cured imports
into the EEC will increase by about 85 million pounds.
14.    The United Kingdom was most seriously affected by the Rhodesian
situation. Before UDI Britain took about 45 percent of Rhodesia's exports,
and these accounted for about one-third of total U.K. tobacco imports.
The United States is the largest supplier of the U.K. market; it accounted
for about 35 percent of import supplies before the Rhodesian embargo.
Flue-cured exports from the United States to the United Kingdom, which
were declining before the embargo, increased afterwards as did exports
from other flue-cured exporting countries. However, because of rising
prices, especially in American leaf, U.K. manufacturers drew on stocks
and these declined by about 65 million pounds from 1962-64 to 1968. It
is estimated that future imports into the United Kingdom will increase
only moderately compared to pre-UDI levels (Table 4).
15.     Imports into the other Western European countries and other world
flue-cured importing countries are also expected to increase moderately.
The exception is Japan, where a further strong expansion is anticipated.
16.     The import projections for all countries in Table 4 indicate a
decline in the growth rate in import demand from 2.5 percent yearly during
1956-64 (pre-embargo period) to 2.0 percent yearly between 1967-69 and
1980.
17.     The importing countries listed in Table 4 are nearly all devel-
oped. In addition, flue-cured tobacco imports into some developing
countries account for about three percent of total world exports. In-
sufficient statistical data prevented an analysis of the future import
demand in these countries. It is unlikely that this demand will decline,
however, since a survey of some countries for which data are available
indicates an increase rather than a decline in import demand.



Annex 6
Page 5
18.     Thus it is assumed, in these and other developing countries,
that the increase in demand in flue-cured tobacco, which is generated
by the increase in consumption in cigarettes, will be met by domestic
production. This may be an underestimation of world import demand. In
the past, cigarette consumption in these countries has increased by 4h5
percent yearly.  An extrapolation of this growth rate would indicate an
increase in annual flue-cured leaf requirements of about 100 million
pounds, between 1968 and 1980, assuming that the flue-cured content of
the cigarette remains stable.
19.     The import projections of flue-cured tobacco have been compared
with export developments. This is done in Table 4, which indicates the
past and expected future development of flue-cured tobacco exports on
the world market - excluding the centrally planned countries. The basic
assumption in the table is that Rhodesia will not reenter the market.
Other assumptions are:
(a) Exports from the United States are assumed to decline to
about the pre-embargo level as the United States continues
to lose its competitive edge because the price support program
will cperate to further increase export prices and because
the quality of the lower priced tobacco from other exporters
will improve;
(b) Similar considerations indicate that Canadian leaf exports
will not increase since they are as high-priced as U.S.
tobacco exports;
(c) The decline in Indian flue-cured exports which has been
going on since 1963 will continue;
(d) Exports from Rhodesia will remain at their 1967-69 estimated
level of about 70 million pounds, but exports from Tanzania,
Malawi and Zambia will increase by 40 million pounds by
1980, reflecting already approved Bank projects plus the
Tanzanian project now being considered; and
(e) Exports from "other" countries are assumed to continue the
rapid expansion which started after the Rhodesian embargo
at 1968-69 prices. These countries have ambitious expansion
plans, and it is assumed that these plans will largely
materialize. However, there is some doubt that the projected
output from these countries will provide the amount of
export grade tobacco to meet the requirements indicated in
the table. Presently importers do not consider many of these
tobaccos to be of a sufficiently high standard for export,
but they are bought because of the shortage of low-priced
export tobaccos. Thus the achievement of these "1other"t
countries' projected export levels rests on the assumption
that great efforts are made to improve quality.



Annex 8
Page 6
20.     A comparison of export and import projections indicates hypo-
thetical export deficits in 1975 and 1980 of 79 million pounds and 10h
million pounds respectively.  It is unlikely, however, that these
deficits will arise. First, there are sufficient stocks and a possi-
bility of production expansion in the United States. But importers
will only pay the high prices demanded in the U.S. market if all other
supply sources are exhausted. If this should be the case, the export
projections for the United States (as indicated in Table 1) would have
to be raised to at least their 1967-69 level. Second, it was assumed
tlhat the momentum in production expansioni generated by past steep
price increases will continue although prices may not increase beyond
their 1968-69 level. In view of the hypothetical deficit this assumption
is probably unrealistic and it is definitely feasible that prices in
the early 1970's will continue to increase for good quality tobaccos in
order to encourage export expansion beyond that indicated in Table 4.
21.     The situation would look different if Rhodesia becomes a major
supplier of the world market once more. In this case the accumulated
stocks in Rhodesia are likely to be sufficient to fill U.K. restocking
requirements and eliminate the export deficit indicated in Table 4.
Present stock levels in Rhodesia are not known and one cannot say
whether excess stocks would exist after the adjustment. But if they
exist, they should not be too large, since Rhodesia has drastically
cut production in recent years. In any case a gradual release would
probably prevent any serious effect on world market prices, / but the
increase in the past price trend no doubt will come to a halt.
22.    More important are the repercussions on exports of other coun-
tries if Rhodesia tried to gain her former export level of about 220
million pounds. This implies an increase of about 150 million pounds
over her estimated 1967-69 exports. To enter the market at such a
scale might not be too easy considering the changed circumstances. It
is unlikely that manufacturers will wish to return to arrangements which
committed them to making the bulk of their purchases from a single
producer. While previously they had to do this, since exports from other
countries were small, they now have a wider choice and opportunity to
diversify their supply sources. Furthermore, these supplies enter the
world market even today at lower prices than exports from Rhodesia
previous to the embargo, excluding Canada and the United States.
1/ A similar situation existed in the wool market when large excess
wool stocks accumulated in New Zealand in 1967. They are gradually
released without causing prices to fall, although the rate of price
increases which were experienced would likely have been steeper
without additional stock releases.



Annex 8
Page 7
23.     It is likely that Rhodesia will lower her prices to meet competi-
tors. Prices could conceivably drop to pre-embargo level in the first
instance. No doubt, some of the less efficient exporters will have to
curtail their exports in order to restore equilibrium. Whether the
decline in price to such low levels will occur is difficult to predict.
However, it would only take place if Rhodesia reenters the market in the
near future. Otherwise, production costs will probably have risen
sufficiently so that exporters in Rhodesia wTould not be able to compete
as efficiently as before the embargo. This fact speaks against a price
fall to pre-embargo levels even now.
24.     After the initial adjustment, prices will probably recover and
the market share of individual exporters will be determined by quality
considerations. It is reasonable to assume that they would have recov-
ered to their 1970 levels by about 1980.
25.     The outlook for increased Tanzanian flue-cured exports in this
situation is comparatively good if the proposed projeot succeeds in
providing quality tobacco and an efficient marketing organization.
Tanzania is already established in the U.K. market where it obtains a
duty preference. Although the U.K. market is not expanding greatly,
there are possibilities that Tanzania would replace some other exporters
who entered that market after the embargo. However, Tanzania's greatest
possibilities lie in the Common Market, where imports are expanding
considerably faster than in the United Kingdom. Presently, Tanzania
exports no tobacco to the EEC, because it is too high-priced as a
result of U.K. importers outbidding EEC importers. The Commonwealth
duty preference allows them to do this. If Tanzania wants to enter
the EEC tobacco market without special preferences, she would have
to lower her average export price by about five percert. Compared
with the 1969/70 export price of T Sh 4.h6 per pound, this implies a
decline to about T Sh 4.20 per pound (the price assumed in the project
financial and economic projections).  However, Tanzania, together with
Kenya and Uganda, signed an association agreement in September 1969
with the EEC. The agreement still has to be ratified by individual
EEC member countries. If this is done, Tanzanian tobacco will enter
the EEC market duty free which implies a preference of about 15 percent.
Under these circumstances, the outlook for increased flue-cured tobacco
exports from Tan.;ania is encouraging. This applies even if Rhodesia
should reenter the world market.
26.     IL Rhodesia enters t-he world market, our assuimption is that
prices could decline to pre-embargo levels initially. For Tanzania
this implies a decline in export prices to about T Sh 3.80 per pound.
But, as stated before, world market pr5ces couJd be expected to recover
after the iniTial price drop. By around 1980, Tanzanian export prices
should thus reach about T Sh 4.20 per pound.



Annex 8
Page 8
27.     Additional Bank tobacco projects are not contemplated at this
time. The question remains to be answered: What might be the effect
on international market prices of the 20 million pounds of flue-cured
tobacco exports generated by the present project? The answer is diffi-
cult to make since the 20 million pounds account for less than 2.0
percent of world import demand in 1980 and reliable or precise estimates
of price elasticities of demand are not available. Furthermore, the
Rhodesian situation introduces an additional factor of uncertainty.  If
one assumes that Rhodesia does not reenter the market, project exports
will contribute to reducing the potential deficit byr the above amount.
Thus it may be said that they will samewhat reduce the tendency for
prices increases. On the other hand, if Rhodesiarmenters the narket,
the exports generated by the project will contribute to the price drop
to pre-embargo levels and somewhat retard the price increases thereafter.
In all these situations the effect on world market prices should be small.
September 15, 1970



Annex 8
Table 1
Table 1: WORLD PRODUCTION AND EXPORTS
OF UNMANUFACTURED TOBACCO
1955-57 AND 1965-67
Production                          Exports
Yearly                           Yearly
1955-57   1965-67   percent      1955-57   1965-67   percent
increase                         increase
(million pounds)                 (million pounds)
Developed Countries   3,55       3,776       o.6           92L     1,007       1.3
Developing Countries  2,672      3,704       3.3           505       734       3.8
Centrally Planned
Countries excluding
Mainland China         913     1,16b.      2.5           126       249       7.1
World Production       7,139     8,64Wi      1.9         1,555     2,030       2.7
Source:  FAO, Review of Trends and Problems in the World Tobacco Economy, 1969



ANNEX 8
TABLE 2
Table 2: ESTIMATED OUTPUT OF CIGARETTES
(millions of pieces)
Yearly
Average     Actual       Percent
1960-64      1968       Increase
Developed Countries                     1,229,451   1,470,500       3.0
Developing Countries                     h42,8h7      575;,118      4.5
Africa                               58,183       7l,492       3.5
Centrally Planned Countries
incl. Mainland China                   708,916      926,659       4.6
World Total                             2,381,214   2,972,277       3.8
Source: US Department of Agricultare, Fbreign Agriculture Circular,
September 1969.



Table 3:  WORLD EXPORTS OF FLUE-CURED TOBACCO, EXCIIJDING CENTRALLY PLANNED COUNTRIES,
AVERAGE EXPORT UNIT VALUES, AVERAGE 1955-59 AND ANNUAL 1960-68
Exports                                    Price per pound
Rhodesia                                                Rhodesia
United  Zambia                                          United   Zambia
States  Malawi    India   Canada   Others   Total       States   Malawi   India    Canada
e  ...million pounds ...                    ......       .      ..... U.S. cents ..........)
Average:
1955-59          413      125       77        35       33      683        71.1      57.6     32.2      61.3
1960             409      165       65        36       30      705        77.2      57.1     36.6      71.1
19kl             403      183       69        37       35      727        79.h      59.2     32.0      72.9
1962             375      190      121        47       43      776        80.9      51.8     30.6      67.1
1963             X03      181      115        36       51      786        82.1      63.3     36.1      71.6
1964             396      223      136        L9       60      86L,       82 .2     L9.1     31.3      67.5
1965             351      264      115        39       75      84L,       85.1      49.h     36.3      78.9
1966             h23       73       62        36      116      710        92.3      43.0     39.3      95.0
1967             027       92      102        13      130       791       94.3    h1h.0 -   39.7    103.7
1968             444       88       90       146      143      811        96.0 o    45.0 -   h4.3    107.0
1969 2/
I/ Estimated (mainly Malawi and Zambia).
2/  Prices in 1969 continued to rise, but complete data are not yet available.
CD, X
Source:   United States Department of Agriculture.                                                              w m



Table 4: EXPMITS AND IMPORTS OF FLUE-C1RED TOBACCO BY PRINCIPAL EXP(CTERS AND I PCRTERS-
1956-60. 1961-63. 1967-69 AND PROJECTIONS FOR 1975 AND 1980 - FIRST APPROXIMATION
(million pounds)
Imports                                                     Exports
I:urpw      Ot;her
United   Economd      Western                                  United                    East
Kingdoom  Oouu.gMi    Europe   Japan   Others        Total    States   Canada  India   Afrioal! Ot,hwsW   Total
1956-60'        308        216       100       5       40           669       41.3      35      77      125        33       683
1961-63         301        276       105      12       45           739       394       40     102      185        43       764
1967-69         289        319       110      42       56           816       434       45      95       87      11.        801
1975            306        367       122      88       65           948       400       50      80      107 _    230        8691/
1980            319        405       127    120        70         1,041       400       50      80      127 /  280         9371/
Potential export defoiit:
1975                                                                                                                         791/
1980                                                                                                                        1041/
1/ Excluding centrally planned countries. These countries acrs.:    <'t out 170 million i1)ouis of world net importa of all
tobacco types, including flue-cured. Except for Malaysia, ,       ';'e  Horg Kong and Egypt, inporters are all developed
countries.
2/ Australia, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, Egypt.
3/ Rhodesia, Zambia, Malawi, Tanzania.
;/ Includes (1969 exports in parentheses): Bazil (20)j Thailan"  I'j          liepublio of Soutth Atf-ioa (15); Argentina (10);
South Korea (10)j Venezuela (5); Taiwan (7); Mezico (8); Argo"i    N Pald stan (5); 1.n2ono,aia (3).
5/ Exports 1955-59.
Assumes an increase in exports from Tanzania of 15 niillion n,  -   C0!hew countries renc n at 1968 level.
7/ Assuming 1968-69 prices and oontinued embargo.
W   Asswmes an increase in exports from Tansania of 30 million        , ther countries r4 s  jn 't 1968 level.
Sources Statistics for 1956-49: The Conmonwealth Secretar!            t&,n C.np; and U.S. o'JCarteMent oi Ag-iculture;
Projections: I3ED, Eoonomics Department.



Table 5: TOTAL AND PER CAPITA CONSUMPTION OF CIGARETTES
IN THE EEC, UNITED KINGDOM AND JAPAN
AVERAGE 1960-64, 1968, PROJECrIONS FCR 1980
1960-64               1968                 1980         Yearly percent
of growth
Country or Region                Total      Per      Total       Per      Total       Per    1960-64    1963
izllion   capita    million   capita    million   capita      to         to
pounds    pieces    pounds    pieces    pounds    pieces    1968        1980
European Economic Commurity     213,796    1,243    274,885   1,481    348,617    1,757        4.3       2.0
United Kingdom                  124,842    2,357    1140,960    2,550    159,500    2,628      2.1        1.0
Japan                           142s021    1,495    197,791    1,957    275,499.1/  2,470      5.7        2.7
Note:  Per capita consumption of cigarettes in the United States was 2,881 in 1968.
1/ Assumes that the increase in consumption will be based entirely on imported tobacco. Japanese
flue-cured production has been declining steadily since 1967.
Source: Statistics for 1960-64 and 1968: The Cormonwealth Secretariat, Plantation Crops; and
U.S. Department of Agriculture; Projectionst ISED, Economics Department.






ANNEX 8
C HART 1
AVERAGE EXPORT PRICES OF FLUE-CURED TOBACCO,
PRINCIPAL COUNTRIES, 1955-59 AVERAGE AND 1960 TO 1968
(U.S. CENTS PER POUND)
110                  l            I           ,                               110
CAN ADA\
100                                                                           1OO
_  e         ~~~~~I
90--                                                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~_90
80J                                                                           80
70 /    -S^s   z^>^  /70
*                      ~~~~~UGAND A
60                                                                           ,,' ....... *  60
TANZANIA
RHODESlA ,ZAMBIAA.                     /
AND MALAWI     ,       
50                                                                                ...   50
.0e ~ ~    ~    ~     5
40                                              *< -.                          40
30                                                                          -30
0                   I     i__,___'                       '           B E
1955-59     1960  1961  1962  1963  1964  1965  1966  1967  1968  1969  1970
(AVERAGE)
IBRD-4870 (3R)






ANNEX 9
TANZANIA
FLUE-CURED TOBACCO PROJECT
FARM PRICE CALCULATIONS
(T Sh/lb)
1970
(Tobacco Board     Assumed for
Estimate)         Project
1. Estimated average drywihprc
1.    ~ ~ ~            eih  price
(fob Dar es Salaam)                        4.46              4.20
2. Equivalent average wet leaf price
(d6A5  outturn)                             3.86             3.63
3. Less:  Classification fee                      0.05              0.05
Redrying charges                       0.40             o.45
Packing materials                      0.10             0.15
Transport, up-country to
port                                 0.10             0.10
Insurance, Shipping Agents,
Bank Interest and other
Miscellaneous Costs                  0.18             0.20
Marketing Commission                       I/
(u% of fob price)                   0.12             0.15
Tobacco Board administrative
expenses le'vy                       0.05             0.05
Provision for down-grading             0.14-            0.02
3/
Witholding                             0.16-             o.16
Total                     1.30              1.33
4. Estimated payment to growers                   26                2.30
1/ Based on exported portion of crop pnly.
2/  Allowance for possible over-payments to growers F
of incorrect grading8 see footnote to Annex 6, Table 1.
I/ See para. 5.09.



TMA1 IA                                                        ANNEX 10
FLUN-CD  TUIA?
(based on 2 asres of tobaoeo from Year 2 cnwards)
5
T ar         1                2               3                   t            orArds
1. Cro Production (Tobacco)
utity (lb vet leaf)                     550             1,300            1,500            1,500             1,500
1. Cash Inflow (TSk)
Tobacco Croo Sales Y                  1,265             2,990            3,450             3,45)            3,450
Medium-Term LoutDraw Ds                 760                60              26t               -
Total                         ,05 3,5                          3,710            3,h5S
[I. Cash Outflow (T S)
(Ca) Capital Items
BarFn Trmcmeter & Flue-Pi.pes             235               235              ?35
Grading Shed Materials V /10 h
Watering Can and Soil InJector 2/          45                -                -
Contingencies (10%)                        70                25               25
Sub-Total 4/                      760              260               260               -                -
(b) Recurrent On-farm Costs
Seed-Pack Bnd Seed                         30                60               60               67                60
Eertilizer For Tobaccos/                  2n6               112            1412              b12               lI,?
Fertilizer lbr Maize 5!                    -5                 S               45               15               13h
Flue-Pipe Replacem                       ~                   45               9              135               135
Miscellmeous Items 48                                                        4                48 l-s
Contingencies (10)                         30                60               65               70                70
Sub-Total                         335               670              720              77r               770
(c) Debt Service md Other Ch r
interest on Seascnal Loan 8/               17               35                35               bn 1
'iedium-Term Loan Debt SeryTce             66
Interest                          65                75               61               2b
Princioal                        135              b25               139             ?81
Cooverative Baling Cess                    55               130              150              150               150S
II-o'-rative Onerating Cess /               83              195              295               ?25              ??5
Sub-Total                         355               86n              pn               720               411
TOTAL CASH OUTFIDW                     1,150             1,790            1,89n           l,90              1,185
TV.   Net Cash Return to Farmr    (T Sh)                         4 .61                           1960
V. Vaue of Fmily Labor (t ShP                  67$                             1.050               1501,05
1. Average price per lb  paid by Tobaeco Board aesomed to be TSb 2.30.
2.  Corrugated iro  and perspe   roof sheetingb. tiober, cems t/lim, nails.
3. The soil injector is shared between 10 fmrs.
4   For which the farmer receives the _dium-tem lout.
Some 15% above current prices, to allm for switch tO local procurewmnt.
6. DDT, Jute Twine, and cooperative cbarge for barn spraying.
7. For which farmer receives a s-aamal lou.
8. At the rate of V   per Mmma; averges at 5% on the total unmt of the seasonal lom, borrowed for less than A full year.
4. Interest at &gt oer asmm; fixed payments of 200/- the first year, aid 500/- for subsequent yews autil the debt is repai d.
10. 10 centa nor lb of wet leaf, covers cost of tar-lined paper, hessia  cloth, cooperatiTe lAbor costs.
11. 15 cents per lb of wet leaf  corers all cooperativ  owr-erad costs, including loan accounts md supply of inputs.
12. Assumes no labor beyoni that which family cut provide. Depending an fmily sise md other comitmnts, the farmer mi0ht
find it necessary to hire 40 man-days of labor at ftll developwent at an annual cost of some 100/-
13. Valued at TSh 2.93 per mam-da. In addition, fsily labor valued at 250/-  is estimated to be needed in Year ).



TANZAIIA-
FWtl-Rbi 1TOBACI0 FECjt2 r
GOVIelLsIlT. '.OCA AND MB*0co a0R   ii-FL;f r-aC26  I    r S
1970/71   197/72   1971173   1973/74   19741/75  1975/76   1976/77   1977,78   1978/79   1975/33  1980191   1987. 82   1982/83   1563/8L   198485   1985/86
1. 
A. Casb Innflo
Crsnt fran Gove rt                          4,500     5,634     2,866       -         -         -         -         -
Loan froman  ,er,t                            -         -       5,597    12,366     6,921     6,996       -         -
Mlp.sent of iag.-?   Le                       -         -         1.50      810     1,170     1,770     1,770     1,770     1,770      1,770    1,770      1,770     1,320       960       600
iepajt of YAdi-an.         Loans                   - .            243     1,211     2,638     3,803     4,224    3,778       2,376       927      --                   -         -         -
_nwa   t of Seasl Loans                       -         -         666     2,553     5,065     7,782   10,554   12,105    12,435    12,600    12,600    12,600    12,600    12,600    12,600    12,600
Ianni.g  an Loan/Orat frm Gov't.              113       372       7W3     1,305     1,f19     2,225     2,345     2,206     2,070     1,930      1,795    1,658      1,521     1,386     1,352      1,420
B. Cash Oufla.
_ t  of Ooenoat Loan                          -            -         -         -                        3,965     3,965     3,985     3,985      3,985     3,965     3,965    3,965        -         -
Intast e Govermt lor !                                            112       17        8       11,140    1,197     1,041       881        725       565   ' 01 '        241        79       -
L1-Ten  Leon to lbkceo hard                 li,500    3,600     3,600    6,000        -         -         -         -
l1 to C atir -                                        1,368     2,976     3,8334    4,224    4,224    1,716         858
S _e1 Loam to  Cooperatives                   -         666     2,553     5,065     7,782    10,554    12,105    12,435    12,6o0    12,603    12,6o0    12,600    12,600    12,600    12,600    12,600
Not Cab Inlo(Ostflow)                      13        372    j          2.255     4 769       658      (110)    91.0   - 8    as  8                                           T.f8     1.252      1,4_20
II.    hi Jmcao hBard 3
A. Ca  infoi
Loam, fran                                  l.45C0    3,600     3,600     6,000       -         -          -         -                   _         _         _         _         _          _         _
.t= .IT                                       -         160       660     1,410     2,200      2,990    3,500     3,600      3,600     3,600     3,600    3,600      3,600     3,600      3,600     3,600
B. Cash Outflow
Capital Cost of Dpai,m  of fcnitjoaa        41500     6,000     6,ooo    10,000       -          -         -         -         _         _         _         _         _          _                   _
Net Cah Innfl. (Ostflo)                                                                             _ (2,590)5/ 2.90                               2 3.500                                       3,600 3.600 3.600    ,,c  L
A. Cst1 LLflow
BMs Dow of la cedt                          9,240      9,600    12.000    15,640     S,900     7,900                                          -                                             -         -
r q   rort feF eo_fOrawe'- Traneportation     -         100       350        800    1,250      1.650     1,650     1,650     1,65D    1,650      1,65o    1,650      1,650      1,650     1,650     1 650
Adi8na    x          7                        -         -           50      170       310      1480        660      T740       800       830       830       830       830        830       830       830
tqint of 300A loan                            -                   -         -         -          -       3,985    3,985      3,985     3,985     3,985     3,985      3,985     3,985       -
Intlwut n IA Len                               -            -      112      4n         858     1,140     1,197     1,041       861       725       565       401        21.        79       -         -
B Ca1h Outflow
15ars*st on 19P Crea                           35       1o5       185        290      385        450       480       480       480       480       480       480        470       460       460       450
hpe1inn  t La Credit                          _                   - _            -          -         -              -         -         -         640       40         640      610        640       640
Oruet/Loan to Am                            4,500      5,634     8,463    12,366     6,921     6,996       - _            _    _    _    _
Suvq,  ad, ltr  Supply, Buildings          4,932     3,588      2,876     2,014     1,941       -
feblels  ad Squipt                            630        900      600        300        10       450       900       600       300        10       450        900       600       300        10        _
Field Stff  a     r d o 0pWtIg
Cota (ts nl,di.g training)                1,J40      3,5TO    4,T20      50.40     5,860     5,120     5,000     4,880     4,760     4,640      4,640     4,640     4,640     4,640     4,640      4,6bo
Resarob Actieits                            1.990        990       990       990       990       990       81o       810       810       81o       81o        810       810       810       810        810
let Cash Inflow (Outflo)                 (1m727)   (5.067)   (5,322)  (4 769)  (3.809)  (2.656)         302       646       966     1 250         10    _6041       (                 (4.,80)   (bk=60)
I7. 011on Government   C"h Inllror (Outf)         54.6__ _   (6, _____                     3.160     6,992     3.692     5_786    4.751      4.767      2.625     2.038     1.761    1576      1.472        960
V  Orarall Governt C lative Ca                                                                                          (
Inflow (Outflow)                                       11569) (17,3e7)   (21,811)  51  6l)              17_    967)35                 8. C 7  337  17r2   13                              . 148 761
J/  5% per annun, asasoing that lon/grnt wdll br le*t to ?IDCA borrowers  at 8S0 per enan  and that operating costs and bad debt provislons would take 345  After payment of 4% interest on the loan,
there Wed de ae earnings or 5 per  man on the grant anc 1% per annon on the 1oan
2   Interest at .9 p.r anMs=
'  Azsg teat all operstssg coote (in=ladag 1c- repayments) are ,et fra, sales proceeds tefore pa.ents to growers.
At toe rate  f 11 Sh 0.16 par lb. of wet e"ef .ee pare  5.09 of Paas Report).
Thba.-a Board witsholdlng fra non-project produotion In saah of these five years is estimated at -s    Sh 3.7 million.
-6/  lndirent taxes on farers, assim-ng that 30% of far,  -.ovos abor 7 Sb 500 per anoun will be subjmet to iteas carrying 10% asan tax.
7/   gnd of pro,00t las-tment perod.






ANNEX 12
TANTANIA
FLUE-CURED TOBACCO PROJECT
ECONqOMIC RATE OF RETURN CAICULATION
BND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
1.        Table 1 shows the calculation of the internal rate of return to the
economy, and the Chart its sensitivity to variations in tobacco prices, project
costs, and the value attributed to family labor.
2.        In the calculation, the following assumptions and inputs have been
used:
(a) Life of assets established under the project
The productive life of each farm established under the
project together with the buildings - barns, grading
and baling sheds - needed for each farm is assumed to
be 15 years, reflecting the temporary nature of the
buildings and the current wood fuel situation (see para
4.07 of the main report). Provision is made in on-
farm recurrent costs for the maintenance of buildings.
Costs and benefits of the project are discounted over a
20 year period, allowing for the 5-year period for
establishing new farms; they decline in the last five
years when farms which have completed their 15 year
life are phased out.
(b) Costs
(i) On-farm capital and recurrent costs
Full costs as detailed in farm budgets at
Annex 10 are used. They exclude any cost
of family labor which is treated separately,
see para 2(b)(v) below.
(ii) Costs of Government services
All Government costs, both capital and re-
current, arising from implementation of the
project - including the costs of extension
services but excluding research - are taken
into account. No residual value is at-
tributed to Government assets created under the
project, although the life of many of these
may exceed 20 years. These costs are detailed
in Annexes 4 and 11.



AINNE 12
~ge ~
(iii) NDCA costs
Provision in made for the net costB incurred
by NDCA in making, supervising and recovering
loans to project farmers.
(iv) Storage, pziocessing and marketing costs
The costs used in the calculation are based
on the costs incurred under the present mar-
keting arrangements. The breakdown of these
costs is given in Annex 9.
(v)   Family labor cost8
Table 1 shows the effects of costing all farm
family labor estimated to be employed under
the project at zero, and at T Sh 2.50/manday.
The latter is the price now paid in the project
area for casual labor. Annex 10 gives details
of famaily labor requirements per two acres or
tobacco.
(c) Benefits
(i)   Tobacco yields are assumed to increase from
550 lb/acre of cured wet leaf in the first
year that a farmer participates in the project,
to 650 lb/acre in the second year, and to 750
lb/acre in the third and subsequent years, see
para 6.01 of main report.
(ii)  Tobacco prices are based on an average of
T Sh 4.20/ b of tobacco, dry weight FOB
Dar s- Salaam, see para 6.06 of main report.



TAXZANIA
FLUE-CURED TOEBCCO PROJECT
800iONIC RATE OF BH1UIl CALOCILATIN
(t Sh '000)
~~~i-Parm Goat.  Gov~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nminNttetBoni
On-Farm                 _         Gove nt Services                                                                                         k     ia Benefits                    Bae,afits
SwV , ibads,         Vehicles      Field Staff                        Storage, Pro-                      Oross            (Conti)                         (costs)
water               and        Salaries and                        cesing ad                          camaeic        (b-luding         F?ily           (CGMting
lesr             mitai                Y   Sivply. Bildi.ng     i       t      2perating Costs    SDrA Costa    Markutizg I         Total Coats     Benefits 2/    FmlIy Labor)         Labor 3/     FmwlZ Labor)
1970/71              -            -               4,932              630           1,880              100               -              7,5112            -             (7,54,2)             500           (8,04,2)
1971/72            1,368         566              3,588              900           3,570              180             1,158           11,330           3,595           (7,735)            2,000           (9,735)
197/73             2,976       2,253              2,876              600           b,720              270             h,861           lB,556          15,095           (3,461)            5,000           (8,461)
1973/74            3,83L       4,635              2,1,11             300           5,490              330            10,302           27,305          31,988            4,683             8,700           (4,017)
197kJ75 -b,224                 7,182              1,9l11              10           5,8eo              410            16,093           35,740          49,972           14,232            12,200            2,032
1975/76            41,         9,804                                 450           5,120              240            21,885           ia,723          67,956           26,233            111,900          11,333
1976/77            1,76       11,1,05                -               900           5,000              250            25,553           44,824          79,346           36,522            16,100           18,422
1m7/7e               88       14715                  -               600           4,880              250            26,325           Lh4,648         81,745           37,097            15,800           21,297
1978/79              -        11,950                 -               300           4,760               25D           26,325           43,585          81,745           38.160            15,800           22,360
1979/80              -        11,950                -                 10           4,640              250            26,325           43,175          81,71h5          38,570            15,800           22,770
1980/81              -        11,95                  -               450           4,61 o              250           26,325           43,615          81,745            38,130           15,800           22,330
198l/89                       11,95o                 -               900           4,640               250           26,325             4,1o65        81,745           37,680            15,800           21,880
1981/83                       11,950                 -               600           4,640               250           26,325           43,765          81,715            37,980           15,80o           22,180
1983/84              -        11,950                 -               300           4,640               250           26,325            43,465         81,745            38,280           15,800           22,480!
1961/85              -        11,950                 -                10           4,640               250           26,325           h3,175          81,745            38,570           15,800           22,770
1985/86              -        11,950                 -                 -           4,6100              220           26,325            43,135         81,745            38,610           15,800           22,810
1986/S7              -        10,538                 -                 -           4,,o80              170           23,166            37,9514        71,933            33,979           13,900           20,079
1987/88              -         7,916                 -                 -           3,06                110           17,374            28,460         53,949            25,489           10,400           15,089
1988/89              -         5,244                 -                 _           2,0hO                60           11,583            18,927         35,969            17,8*2             6,S90          10,1b2
1989/90              -         2,622                 -                 -           1)020                30            5,792             9,464         17,984             8,520             3,500            5,020
!conanic Rate of Return:  Eslouding Fmiily Labor - 55
Including Family Labor -3
i. ^n basis of cuirrent marketing systen, to FOB Dar es Saaam.
5.  valw Sf vrodqrtion, FOB Dar es Salaam, at T2h IJ "1 ver lb of tobacco, dry weight.
l/ Valued at iSh 2.50 ner mmi-day.
-   F         re'udlr y nayents for use of 0ovemnient trnspaprt, cost of which is included under O"sernen  -vices,
er    - r" e2np f'mily labcr.






ANNEX 12
CHART
TANZANIA: FLUE-CURED TOBACCO PROJECT
(ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS)
80                          ,            ,80
70                                                                            170
60                                                       __60
J0      __                                                                      50
RETURN
40                                                                                4
a_    _                                     _ _             _ _ _ _ _ _       4 0O
30-30
VARIATION WITH AMOUNT OF CONTINGENCIES,
ASSUMING PRICE OF TSH 4.20 PER LB AND
FAMILY LABOR COSTED AT TSH 2.50 PER
///          ~~MAN-DAY
20                                       /                                       /____2(
VARIATION WITH PRICE, ASSUMING 10% CONTINGENCIES
AND FAMILY LABOR COSTED AT TSH 2.50 PER MAN-DAY
10 T----  X           -                               --                       0 i-
-  VARIATION WITH 'OPPORTUNITY COST OF FAMILY LABOR,
ASSUMING 10% CONTINGENCIES AND PRICE OF TSH 4.20 PER LB
3 60      3-90         4-20         450
PRICE PER LB DRY LEAF FOB DAR ES SALAAM  IN TANZANIA SHILLINGS
5 00       3 75        2P50          1 25         0
oPPORTUNITY COST OF FAMILY LABOR IN TANZANIA SHILLINGS PER MAN-DAY
+ 20%       + 10%          0         - 10%
AMOUNT OF CONTINGENCIES APPLIED TO CAPITAL AND OPERATING COSTS
I 1k ) --4757(3R)






UGANDA                    ---L   K E --                              E                             TANZANIA    40
2VI C  OR/A  Shkoi               KENYACUE                                             O ET
KARA/WE    SukotN  ORTH M                           NFLUE  CURED TOBACCO  PROJECT
rWANDA                                ukJJ  irE       Tar                                               Region bondaries
ffi R W A N D A                       B lC9UKO6A ff D    /  sukirno   M\ 5 A   R   A              --a District botmdaries
M  u s 0    M                                       internutionai boundories
IATRKO    '  Main roads
NATR                        fzd~~~~~~~-~.. always
yam r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 *-~Propowed ralwEBy
ev                                    7 * N u g u r,  Projectflue cured 
mul  I    I                                                 OD i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ obsoco eO
\/~/&\7S GIta y (   HM              otYy4 A S W A  e  Luguru  OlduwaC                     Ott flue cfred
B U R U N D I   )     \              <        < aikungu                   ndul         Mosndu ig        Site of wbcopoesn
J  ibo,G                                                                                    f   i YAaA  *   f    o ucti on fioor
i A 0   \7    M p e n d o            AA~~~~~~~~~~~~ IA    ( 9(                    %    Qu9Q
I 0                                                                                          O    ES M   B    L  A
zeA  X __[  I _Rungwa  Om 0/        ilos       Morogoro | Ruv        Et SALAA
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I A                                        Ats                                         A   1
Ki;L~       ~~~   Urmb   To                    SE         KlwtMsk
rUlidUrNaZ~~~~~G                  Oa =UNG WE    Njme  _NACHINGWEATong       
OEMOCRATIC ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~EB
Z AH    'X -t                                  s~/                               MTWAndennd
seIL5~~~~~~,                   n     bomb >Boy  .-                        *z>
ZIBAR  85
FEBRUARY 1970



