CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 217 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Flue-Cured Tobacco Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 9, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 217 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Flue-Cured Tobacco Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 9, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 9, 1970 between UNITED REPUBLIC
OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the National Development Credit Agency (hereinafter called
NDCA) has been established by the National Co-operative and Development Bank
Act, 1964, of the Borrower with the purpose inter alia of providing credit for
agricultural purposes;
WHEREAS the Tanganyika Tobacco Board (hereinafter called TTB), a
statutory body corporate established by the Agricultural Products (Tanganyika
Tobacco Board) Order, 1963, of the Borrower, is charged inter alia with the control
and regulation of the marketing of tobacco grown in the territories of Tanganyika;
WHEREAS the Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company Limited (hereinafter
called TTPC), a company incorporated under the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 212)
of the Borrower in October 1966, is charged inter alia with the processing of
tobacco;
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested, in conformity with the Borrower's
policy on Ujamaa villages, the Association to assist in the financing of a flue-cured
tobacco development project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed to make a credit to the Borrower
for the said project upon the terms and conditions set forth herein and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Association, NDCA, TTB and TTPC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit


﻿4
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a)   The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the meaning set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement."
(b)   Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words "or under the Project
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association, NDCA, TTB and TTPC, as the same may
be amended or supplemented from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower, the Association, NDCA, TTB and TTPC.
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NDCA referred to in Section 4.05 of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended or supplemented from time
to time with the approval of the Association.
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan" means the financing provided for in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
(d)   "Tobacco Project Group" means the organizational unit established
under the Project as described in Part A (7) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(e)   "Village" means any village established under the Project as described
in Part A (1) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(f)   "Village Complex" means any complex composed of about ten Villages
as described in Part A (1) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(g)   "Cooperative Society" means any cooperative society established under
the Project as described in Part A (2) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿5
(h)   "Marketing and Processing Study " means the feasibility study specified
in Section 4.07 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement, as such
allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant 'o the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respect of the reasonable cost of goods or services required for the
Project and to be financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i)         such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, shall be required to meet payments to be made)
for goods or services included in Categories I and II of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement;
(ii)       the equivalent of thirty per cent (30%) of such amounts as shall
have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, shall be
required to meet payments to be made) for goods or services
included in Category III of said allocation of the proceeds of
the Credit; and
(iii)      the equivalent of sixty per cent (60%) of such amounts as shall
have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, shall be
required to meet payments to be made) for goods or services
included in Category IV of said allocation of the proceeds of
the Credit;


﻿6
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the estimate of such
payments for goods or services included in any of the Categories III and IV, the
Association may by notice to the Borrower adjust the stated percentage applicable
to such Category as required in order that withdrawals of the amount of the Credit
then allocated to such Category and not withdrawn may continue pro rata with
the payments remaining to be made for goods or services included in such Category;
and provided further that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be   made   on   account of expenditures incurred    after
June 30, 1976.
Section 2.04. (a) No withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made
on account of payments for taxes imposed by the Borrower or any of its political
subdivisions on, or in connection with the importation or supply of, goods or
services included in Categories I and II of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
(b)   Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures under
Category IV of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement unless agreement between the Borrower and the Association
on the implementation of the findings and recommendations of the Marketing and
Processing Study shall have been reached.
(c)   It is hereby agreed, pursuant to Section 5.01 of the General Conditions,
that withdrawals from the Credit Account may be made on account of payments
made prior to the date of this Agreement but after March 15, 1970 for land
planning, including aerial survey of parts of the Project Area, and for long-term
NDCA credits for the Marketing and Processing Study, to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.05. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each


﻿7
April I and October 1 commencing October 1, 1980 and ending April 1, 2020,
each installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 1990 to
be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall apply, or cause to be applied, the proceeds
of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Development Credit
Agreement to expenditures on the Project, described in Schedule 2 to th%
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than consultants' services) to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, except for goods referred to in
paragraphs (3) and (4) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and in accordance with
such other procedures supplementary thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to
this Agreement or as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project or cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial, agricultural, engineering and economic practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall take all actions necessary on its part to enable
NDCA, TTB and TTPC to perform their obligations under the ProjEct Agreement
and shall not take any action that would interfere with the performance of any
such obligations by NDCA, TTB or TTPC.


﻿8
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall appoint as the head of the Tobacco Project Group a Tobacco Project
Officer, whose experience and qualifications for such position shall be satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association. The Borrower shall appoint as additional
members of the Tobacco Project Group (i) a Senior Planning Officer, whose
experience and qualifications for such position shall be satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association, (ii) a Senior Accountant to be employed after consulting the
Association sufficiently in advance of the appointment for the Association to have
adequate opportunity to comment on the suitability of the individual proposed
for such position, and (iii) such supporting technical, accounting and secretarial
staff as may be necessary for the purposes of the Tobacco Project Group.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall,
to assist the Tobacco Project Group in the carrying out of its functions, designate
by name a Forest Officer, a Water Engineer and a Roads Engineer within the
appropriate ministries or departments of the Borrower to be stationed in Tabora
and to be available on a part-time basis for the Project as a first priority whenever
their assistance shall be requested by the Tobacco Project Officer mentioned in
paragraph (a) above.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
employ the following resident extension service staff:
(i)         for each Village Complex one Field Officer, assisted by an
Assistant Field Officer and two Assistant Foresters;
(ii)         for each Cooperative Society, for a period of not less than five
years after its establishment, a Cooperative Inspector;
(iii)       for each Village, one Assistant Field Officer, assisted during the
first year of settlement of such Village by a newly qualified
Assistant Field Officer; and
(iv)         such  additional extension  and supporting staff as may be
necessary for the proper supervision of agricultural production
in the Villages.
(d)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause the Field Officers and Assistant Field Officers mentioned in paragraph (c)
above, before being assigned to Village Complexes or Villages, to receive adequate
training in the production, curing and grading of flue-cured tobacco.


﻿9
(e)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
employ consultants acceptable to the Association, upon terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association, to carry out the aerial survey referred to under
Part A (6) of the Project.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that any farmer in any of the Villages who proposes to
grow more than two acres of tobacco in any year shall be allowed to do so only
if the resident Field Officer mentioned in Section 4.02 (c) (i) of this Agreement
shall have satisfied himself that such farmer is fully capable of handling the increased
crop.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that until the date, when Part A (1) of the Project shall have been completed,
no flue-cured tobacco development, other than the Project and completion or
improvement of existing developments, shall be carried out in the Tabora and
Mpanda Districts of the Tabora Region and the Chunya District of the Mbeya
Region.
(c)   Until the date referred to in the preceding paragraph (b), the Borrower
shall not settle more farmers in the Villages in any one year than the numbers
set forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, unless the Borrower shall
be satisfied that it can provide all the necessary services; provided, however, that
the annual total of farmers settled shall not exceed such numbers by more than
20% without the prior approval of the Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall ensure that all farmers in the Villages shall be
members of a Cooperative Society unless the Association shall otherwise agree.
Section 4.04. (a) Without limiting the generality of Section 4.01 (a) of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall make available to the Cooperative Societies,
promptly as needed, tractors and other vehicles required for the production of
flue-cured tobacco in the Villages, on a rental basis, and one baling shed for each
Village, for use by the farmers under the control of the Cooperative Societies.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that no Cooperative Society shall during the period of five years after its
establishment purchase any tractors or other vehicles or any baling sheds and that,
after said period shall have expired, only those Cooperative Societies shall be
allowed to purchase any such goods, which


﻿10
(i)         shall be able to provide from their liquid assets at least 25%
of the funds required for that purpose, and
(ii)       shall be capable, as determined on the basis of an individual
appraisal by NDCA, to operate, maintain and repair said vehicles
and buildings economically.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with NDCA satisfactory to the Association providing for the following financial
arrangements:
(i)         The Borrower shall make available to NDCA by way of a grant
the part of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn under
Categories I and IV of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement up to an
amount equivalent to one million eight hundred thousand dollars
($1,800,000), or such other amount as 6he Borrower and the
Association shall agree;
(ii)        The Borrower shall relend to NDCA the part of the proceeds
of the Credit withdrawn under such Categories I and IV after
the amount specified in the foregoing subparagraph (i) shall have
been fully withdrawn by NDCA, at an interest rate of four per
cent (4%) per annum, with a term of fourteen years, including
a grace period of six years; and
(iii)       Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of Section
4.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall make available
to NDCA such additional funds as may be required to enable
NDCA to carry out and continue its credit program established
as Part C (1) of the Project, at an interest rate of not more
than four per cent (4%) per annum, with a term of not less
than fourteen years, including a grace period of six years, or
on such other terms and conditions as the Borrower and the
Association shall from time to time agree.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, tc Borrower
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving any provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿11
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall within one year of the date of this Agreement submit to the
Association for its approval an outline research program for its Tumbi Research
Station.
(b)   Until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall, prior to the
appointment to the Tumbi Research Station of a Senior Research Officer and of
any Research Officer, give the Association a reasonable opportunity to comment
on the suitability of the individuals proposed for any such position.
Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed a team of consultants, acceptable
to the Association, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association, to prepare a feasibility study of the storage, auction and processing
facilities required for the increased production of flue-cured tobacco expected to
result from  the execution of the Borrower's flue-cured tobacco development
program. The terms of reference for this study shall be acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the findings and recommendations of
the Marketing and Processing Study shall be discussed promptly with the
Association and shall not be implemented until agreement thereon has been reached
between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.08. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as will be necessary
to maintain the quality of all flue-cured tobacco produced in its territories, including
the provision of adequate storage, processing and auctioning facilities.
(b)   To this end    the Borrower and the Association shall, until the
completion of the Project, consult annually with each other with regard to the
flue-cured tobacco development, other than the Project, in its territories.
Section 4.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shah insure or cause to be insured the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, against marine and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
under such insurance to be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair
such goods.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds


﻿12
of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition, in respect of the
Project, of NDCA, TTB, TTPC, the Cooperative Societies and of all departments
and agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project;
(ii) enable accredited representatives of the Association to inspect the Project and
the farms and other facilities included therein, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish
or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit,
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project,
and the administration and operations in respect of the Project, of NDCA, TTB,
TTPC, the Cooperative Societies and of all departments and agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
Section 4.11. The Borrower shall: (i) ensure that the accounts of the Tobacco
Project Group (including the accounts for extension services and Tumbi Research
Station), NDCA, TTB, TTPC and each of the Cooperative Societies are audited
for each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied; (ii) furnish, or cause
to be furnished, to the Association, as soon as available but, in any case, not
later than six months in the case of NDCA, and four months in the case of the
other such entities, after the close of each such year, an audit report by the said
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rc:sonably
requested, and certified copies of the audited accounts of NDCA, TTB and TTPC,
and a summary of the audited accounts of each of the Cooperative Societies, for
such fiscal year; and (iii) furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Association
such other information concerning the accounts of the said entities and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from  time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.12. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit and the maintenance of the service thereof, and
each of them shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower,
such information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the balance of payments position
of the Borrower.


﻿13
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the carrying out of the Project or the maintenance of
the service of the Credit.
(c)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
Section 4.13. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.14. This Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in
its territories on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   NDCA, TTB or TTPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement and such event shall have continued for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower and NDCA, TTB or TTPC,
respectively;
(b)   bef-)re the Project Agreement shall have terminated in accordance with
its terms, the Borrower shall have taken any action for the dissolution


﻿14
or disestablishment of any of NDCA, TTB or TTPC or for the
suspension of its operations, unless prior thereto the Borrower and
the Association shall have reached agreement on the arrangements to
be made in order to replace such entity by an organization which
will assume and perform all the obligations of such entity under the
Project Agreement upon said dissolution, disestablishment or
suspension; and
(c)   before the Project Agreement shall have terminated in accordance with
its terms, the Borrower shall have suspended, terminated, repealed or
amended the National Co-operative and Development Bank Act, 1964,
the Agricultural Products (Control and Marketing) Act, 1962, the
Agricultural Products (Tanganyika Tobacco Board) (Amendment)
Order 1965, the Co-operative Societies Act, 1968, all of the Borrower,
or the Memorandum and Articles of Association of Tanzania Tobacco
Processing Company Limited of October 19, 1966, in such a way as
to alter substantially the organization, powers or responsibilities of
NDCA, TTB, TTPC or any Cooperative Society, respectively, so as
to affect adversely the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
NDCA, TTB and TTPC have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed and has
become fully effective and binding on the parties thereto in accordance
with its terms, subject only to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement;
(c)   the Borrower has employed the Tobacco Project Officer and the Senior
Planning Officer provided for in Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(d)   NDCA has employed the Financial Analyst provided for in Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement; and


﻿15
(e)   TTB has employed the Chief Marketing Officer provided for in Section
3.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, NDCA, TTB and TTPC and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of NDCA, TTB and TTPC,
in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the parties thereto, and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the parties thereto in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date of January 15, 1971, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02 (c) and
(d), 4.03 (a) and (d), 4.04, 4.05, 4.08 (a), 4.10 and 4.11 of this Agreement shall
terminate on the date on which this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date 20 years after the date of this Development Credit Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1976, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.02. The Minister of the Borrower for the time being responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿16
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P. 0. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Alternative address for cables:
Treasury
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereanto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ G. M. Rutabanzibwa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed in
Category                                   Dollar Equivalent
(1)   Medium-term NDCA loans for
on-farm development                       2,120,000
(2)   Incremental short-term NDCA
loans for seasonal on-farm
inputs                                    1,340,000
(3)   Long-term NDCA loans for
extension to processing
facilities prior to
March 1, 1971                               510,000
(4)   Long-term NDCA loans for
feasibility study of storage,
auction and processing
facilities                                   60,000
II.        (1)   Vehicles for earth moving unit              100,000
(2)   Tractors and other vehicles
for field staff, including
research and training statf                 320,000
(3)   Aerial survey and related items             60,000
(4)   Services of expatriate staff
and training abroad                         830,000
III.       (1)   Operating costs of earth moving
unit, excluding depreciation;
and water supply construction               160,000
(2)   Housing, buildings and furniture
for field staff                             300,000
(3)   Services of field staff, other
than expatriate staff                       700,000
IV.        Storage, auction and processing
facilities                                      1,500,000
V.         Unallocated                                     1,000,000
TOTAL              9,000,000


﻿18
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to IV, or in any of the sub-Categories included therein, shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category or sub-Category will be reallocated by the Association to
Category V.
2.    If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to IV, or in any of the sub-Categories included therein, shall increase, an
amount equal to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit (or, in the case of Category III, or in any
of the sub-Categories included therein, an amount equal to 30%    of such
increase and in the case of Category IV an amount equal to 60% of such
increase) will be allocated by the Association, at the request of the Borrower,
to such Category or sub-Category from Category V, subject, however, to
the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association, in
respect of the cost of the items in any of the other Categories.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's flue-cured tobacco development
program. It covers the settlement of farmers during the five years from 1970/71
to 1974/75 in the Tabora and Mpanda Districts of the Tabora Region and the
Chunya District of the Mbeya Region, the full development of such settlement
during the nine years from 1970/71 to 1978/79 and the provision of marketing
and processing facilities. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:    FIELD DEVELOPMENT
(1)   Settlement of about 15,000 farmers in about 150 Villages, arranged
in complexes of about 10 Villages each, each Village to have enough
land to allow at least 10 acres of good tobacco land and 30 acres
of mature woodland for each farmer.
(2)   Establishment of Cooperative Societies, at the rate of about one per
Village Complex, to handle the distribution of credit for on-farm
seasonal inputs and infrastructure, and to supervise the baling of cured
tobacco.
(3)   Construction of communal infrastructure, including approximately 225
miles of extraction roads, approximately 750 miles of access tracks,
water supplies and baling centers for each Village.
(4)   Construction of adequate curing barns and grading sheds in the Villages.
(5)   Planting of one acre of flue-cured tobacco per farmer in the first year
after occupancy and of two acres in each subsequent year in the
Villages.
(6)   Aerial survey of parts of the Project Area.
(7)   Establishment of an organizational unit within the Borrower's Ministry
of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives ("Tobacco Project Group") to
plan and manage the Project, including provision of staff, buildings,
vehicles and other equipment.
(8)   Provision of extension services for Village farmers and Cooperative
Societies, and related housing and vehicles.


﻿20
(9)  Provision of infrastructure, vehicles, equipment and staff for research
and training at the Tumbi Research Station.
The Project shall be phased approximately as shown in the Annex to this
Schedule 2, subject to modification in accordance with the provisions of Section
4.03 (c) of this Agreement or by further agreement between the Borrower and
the Association.
Part B:    DEVELOPMENT OF MARKETING AND PROCESSING
(1)   Construction of tobacco auction floors and additional tobacco storage
capacity and expansion of existing tobacco processing facilities at
Morogoro.
(2)  Carrying out of a feasibility study for (1) above ("Marketing and
Processing Study").
(3)   Employment of specialists as Chief Marketing Officer and Chief
Accountant for TTB.
Part C:    PROVISION OF CREDIT
(1)   Provision of Credit required for Parts A (4), A (5), B (1) and B (2)
above.
(2)   Employment of specialists as Financial Analyst and a Chief Accountant
for NDCA.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿21
ANNEX
PHASING OF PROJECT
1970/71   1971/72   1972/73    1973/74   1974/75   1975/76    1976/77   1977/78   1978/79         Total
Village
complex
establish-
ment             3         6         4         2          -         -          -         -         -             15
Village
establish-
ment            18        33        33        33        33               -               -         -            150
Farmers
settled      1,800     3,300     3.300      3,300     3,300         -          -         -         -          15,000
Incre-
mental
tobacco
acreage          -     1,800     5,100      6,600     6,600     6,600      3,300         -                    30,000
Incre-
mental
seasonal
credit
($'000
equiva-
lent)            -       100       270       360       380        390       220        50         30           1,800


﻿22
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
(1)   For contracts estimated to involve an amount in excess of $20,000 equivalent,
other than those referred to under paragraphs (3) and (4) of this Schedule:
(a)   Invitations to bid, specifications, conditions of contract, all other
tender documents and the description of the method and places of
advertising shall be submitted to the Association for its review and
approval prior to the issuance of invitations to bid.
(b)   After bids have been received and analyzed, the analysis of bids and
the proposals for awards, together with the reasons for such proposals,
shall be submitted to the Association for its review and approval prior
to making any award of contract or issuing any letter of intent.
(c)   If the final contract is to differ substantially from the terms and
conditions contained in the respective documents approved by the
Association under paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the text of the
proposed changes will be submitted to the Association for its review
and approval prior to the execution of such contract.
(d)   As soon as a letter of intent has been issued or a contract has been
executed, a copy thereof will be sent to the Association.
(2)   For contracts estimated to involve $20,000 equivalent or less, other than
those referred to under paragraphs (3) and (4) of this Schedule, copies of the
invitations to bid, the tender documents, the bid analysis and evaluation and copy
of the signed contract and such other documents which the Association shall
reasonably request will be sent to the Association promptly after the execution
of any such contract and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
(3)   It is agreed that contracts for the procurement of goods financed under
Category I, sub-Category (3) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, involving an aggregate
amount of $560,000 equivalent or less, may be placed without competitive bidding
with the manufacturers who previously supplied such g(ods, provided:
(a)   that the terms and conditions of such contracts are acceptable to the
Association; and


﻿23
(b)   that any material relevant to such contracts which the Association shall
request will be submitted to the Association for review prior to making
any award of contract or issuing any letter of intent.
(4)   Water supply, housing and building construction, to be financed under
Category III, sub-Categories (1) and (2) of Schedule I to this Agreement, shall
be procured following local competitive bidding procedures, according to procedures
acceptable to the Association.
(5)   With respect to all contracts for fertilizers, for the purpose of evaluating
bids, bid prices shall be determined in accordance with the following rules:
(a)   The term   Local Bid means a bid submitted by a manufacturer,
established  in  the  territories of the   Borrower, for fertilizers
manufactured or processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably
determined by the Association) in the territories of the Borrower; any
other bid shall be deemed to be a Foreign Bid.
(b)   The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the ex-factory price of the
fertilizers.
(c)   The bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of:
(i)         an amount representing the c.i.f. landed price of the fertilizers
net of any taxes on their importation; and
(ii)        any such taxes, as generally apply to fertilizers if imported into
the territories of the Borrower by non-exempt importers, or 15('
of the amount specified in (i) above, whichever shall be lower.


