CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 217 TA
Project Agreement
(Flue-Cured Tobacco Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGENCY
AND
TANGANYIKA TOBACCO BOARD
AND
TANZANIA TOBACCO PROCESSING
COMPANY LIMITED
DATED OCTOBER 9, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 217 TA
Project Agreement
(Flue-Cured Tobacco Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGENCY
AND
TANGANYIKA TOBACCO BOARD
AND
TANZANIA TOBACCO PROCESSING
COMPANY LIMITED
DATED OCTOBER 9, 1970


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 9, 1970, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGENCY (hereinafter called NDCA) and
TANGANYIKA TOBACCO BOARD (hereinafter called TTB) and TANZANIA
TOBACCO PROCESSING COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter called TTPC).
WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the United Republic of Tanzania (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Association, which agreement, the schedules therein referred to and the General
Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association made
applicable thereto are hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement, the
Association has agreed to assist in the financing of a flue-cured tobacco project
of the Borrower by making available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000) on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
inter alia that NDCA, TTB and TTPC agree to undertake certain obligations to
the Association as hereinafter in this Project Agreement set forth; and
WHEREAS NDCA, TTB and TTPC in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement, unless the context
shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit
Agreement shall have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of NDCA
Section 2.01. NDCA shall carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and shall at all times conduct its operations and affairs in accordance


﻿4
with sound administrative, financial, agricultural and economic practices and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 2.02. NDCA shall employ a Financial Analyst and a Chief Accountant
whose experience and qualifications respectively for such positions and terms of
reference shall be satisfactory to the Borrower, the Association and NDCA.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, NDCA shall make the following loans according to the operating policies
and procedures of NDCA set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
(i)         it shall make available the funds, required for financing seasonal
on-farm inputs needed for carrying out, and continuing the
planting program established under, Part A (5) of the Project,
to cooperative societies for on-lending to Village farmers as
seasonal loans;
(ii)        it shall make available the funds, required for carrying out Part
A (4), and for financing the equipment needed for carrying out
Part A (5), of the Project, to cooperative societies for on-lending
to Village farmers as medium-term loans; and
(iii)       it shall make available the funds required for carrying out Parts
B (1) and B (2) of the Project to TTB or TTPC, as appropriate,
as long-term loans.
(b)   NDCA shall establish a Revolving Fund to be used exclusively to make
the seasonal loans referred to in paragraph (a) (i) above. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, NDCA shall deposit in such Revolving Fund the amounts
received from the cooperative societies as repayment of principal on such seasonal
loans.
(c)   In granting the loans specified in paragraph (a) of this Section, NDCA
shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and the interests of the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 2.04. NDCA shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, NDCA shall not take any action or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving any provision
of that Agreement.


﻿5
Section 2.05. NDCA shall exercise its rights under the respective agreements
providing for the loans specified in Section 2.03 of this Agreement in such manner
as to protect the interests of NDCA, the Borrower and the Association, and, except
as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, NDCA shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving any provision of said agreements.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants of TTB and TTPC
Section 3.01. TTB and TTPC shall carry out Part B of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and shall at all times conduct their operations and
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, agricultural, engineering
and economic practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management.
Section 3.02. TTB shall employ (i) a Chief Marketing Officer whose
experience and qualifications for such position shall be satisfactory to the Borrower,
the Association and TTB; and (ii) a Chief Executive Officer and a Chief Accountant
after consulting with the Association sufficiently in advance of their appointment
for the Association to have adequate opportunity to comment on their suitability
for such positions.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TTB shall:
(a)   continue its present tobacco marketing arrangements until agreement
shall have been reached on the implementation of the findings and recommendations
of the Marketing and Processing Study in accordance with the provisions of Section
4.07 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)   continue after introduction of any auction arrangements to purchase
flue-cured tobacco leaf for sale on its own account over the auction floor from
all cooperative societies which shall not yet be capable of selling their crops on
their own account, as determined by the Borrower; and
(c)   make arrangements satisfactory to the Association and the Borrower:
(i)        to manage the auction floor to be established under Part B of
the Project; and


﻿6
(ii)       to grade flue-cured tobacco leaf at the Cooperative Societies'
level for presentation on such auction floor, and to train such
staff of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, Food and
Cooperatives. TTB or the Cooperative Societies, as may be
required for taking over these functions.
Section 3.04. (a) TTPC shall employ at all times (i) a Factory Manager whose
experience and qualifications for such position shall be satisfactory to the Borrower,
the Association and TTPC; and (ii) a Managing Director after consulting with the
Association sufficiently in advance of his appointment for the Association to have
adequate opportunity to comment on his suitability for such position.
(b)   Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree,
TTPC shall employ visiting agents acceptable to the Borrower, the Association and
TTPC upon terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower, the Association and
TTPC.
Section 3.05. TTB and TTPC shall duly perform all their obligations under
their respective agreements with NDCA providing for the loans referred to in Section
2.03 (a) (iii) of this Agreement. Except as the Borrower, the Association and NDCA
shall otherwise agree, TTB and TTPC shall not take any action or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
any provision of said agreements.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants of NDCA, TTB and TTPC
Section 4.01. (a) NDCA, TTB and TTPC shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively in the territories
of the Borrower in carrying out the Project.
(b)   The goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement and any agreements supplemental thereto.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NDCA, TTB
and TTPC shall each insure or cause to be insured the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan against marine, transit and other hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, any indemnity under such insurance to be payable in a currency
freely usable to replace or repair such goods.


﻿7
Section 4.03. NDCA, TTB and TTPC shall: (i) maintain records adequate
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary
Loan, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the
Project and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices all financial transactions between any of the Borrower, NDCA, TTB and
TTPC in respect of the Project and the operations and financial conditions of
NDCA, TTB and TTPC; and (ii) enable accredited representatives of the Association
to inspect the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan and
any relevant records and documents.
Section 4.04. NDCA, TTB and TTPC shall: (a) have their accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied- (b)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but, in any case, not later than
six months in the case of NDCA, and four months in the case of TTB and TTPC,
after the close of each fiscal year of NDCA, TTB, or TTPC, respectively, certified
copies of their audited financial statements for such year and an audit report by
the said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested: and (c) furnish to the Association such other infonrmation
concerning the accounts and financial statements of NDCA, TTB and TTPC and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.05. NDCA, TTB, TTPC and the Association shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each
of them shall furnish to the other parties all such information as such other parties
shall reasonably request.
Section 4.06. NDCA, TTB, TTPC and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views through their representatives with regard to matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit. NDCA, TTB and TTPC shall promptly inform the
Association of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by NDCA,
TTB and TTPC of their respective obligations under this Project Agreement, or,
where appropriate, the carrying out of the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. This Project Agreement shall enter into force and effect on
the Effective Date. If the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant


﻿8
to Section 10.04 of the General Conditions, the Association shall promptly notify
NDCA, TTB and TTPC of this event and, upon the giving of such notice, this
Project Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall forthwith
terminate.
Section 5.02. The Project Agreement and all obligations of the Association
and of NDCA, TTB and TTPC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
(a)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms; or
(b)   the later of (i) the date on which the entire principal amount of the
portion of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan, which shall have been made
available to NDCA according to sub-paragraphs (ii) and (iii) of Section 4.05 (a)
of the Development Credit Agreement, shall have been repaid by NDCA to the
Borrower in accordance with the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and (ii) a date twenty
years after the date of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power
or remedy accruing to any party under this Project Agreement upon any default
shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof
or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such party in respect
of any default or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right, power
or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Project Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by
hand or by mail, telegram or cablegram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿9
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For NDCA:
National Development Credit Agency
Post Office Box 268
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Alternative address for cables:
Agcredit
Dar es Salaam
For TTB:
Tanganyika Tobacco Board
Post Office Box 832
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Alternative address for cables:
Tobacco
Dar es Salaam
For TTPC:
Tanzania Tobacco Processing
Company Limited
Post Office Box 227
Morogoro
United Republic of Tanzania
Alternative address for cables:
Tumbako
Morogoro
Section 6.03. NDCA, TTB and TTPC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority of the persons who will, on behalf of NDCA,
TTB and TTPC respectively, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by NDCA, TTB and TTPC pursuant to any


﻿10
of the provisions of this Project Agreement and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.04. This Project Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all collectively but one
instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Project Agreement to
be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United Stat-s of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGENCY
By /s/ G. M. Rutabanzibwa
Authorized Representative
TANGANYIKA TOBACCO BOARD
By /s/ G. M. Rutabanzibwa
Authorized Representative
TANZANIA TOBACCO PROCESSING
COMPANY LIMITED
By /s / G. M. Rutabanzibwa
Authorized Representative


﻿0                                  11
SCHEDULE I
Operating Policies and Procedures of NDCA
In making the loans referred to in Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement, NDCA
shall follow the policies and procedures outlined below, as such policies and
procedures shall be amended from time to time by NDCA with the approval of
the Borrower and the Association.
Eligibility
1.   All Cooperative Societies, and such other cooperative societies as may have
been joined by any farmers in any of the Villages with the agreement of the
Association in accordance with Section 4.03 (d) of the Development Credit
Agreement, shall be eligible for seasonal and medium-term NDCA loans. TTB and
TTPC shall be eligible for long-term NDCA loans.
NDCA Loans
2.    NDCA shall make seasonal loans to each eligible cooperative society of up
to 450 Tanzania Shillings for each acre of flue-cured tobacco expected to be planted
in any of the Villages by farmer members of such cooperative society in any year,
to cover the costs of seasonal on-farm inputs, including replacements for barn flue
pipes and fertilizer for maize production.
3.   NDCA shall make medium-term loans to each eligible cooperative society
of up to 1,300 Tanzania Shillings for each farmer member settled under the Project,
to cover the costs of constructing three curing barns and one grading shed and
of purchasing equipment, such as a watering can, a soil injector gun and a barn
thermometer, needed for the efficient cultivation and curing of flue-cured tobacco.
4.    NDCA shall make long-term loans to TTB or TTPC, as appropriate, to finance
the Marketing and Processing Study and the construction or extension of auction
floor, storage and processing facilities included in the Project.
Term of NDCA Loans
5.    Seasonal loans fall due-not later than September 30 in the year in which
the crop for which these loans shall have been made shall be harvested.
6.    Medium-term loans shall be repayable in four annual installments to fall due
not later than September 30 in the year in which the first crop, after disbursement


﻿12
of these loans shall have begun, shall be harvested, and thereafter not later than
September 30 in each of the three subsequent years.
7.    Long-term loans shall have a term not exceeding twelve years, with a grace
period not exceeding two years.
Interest
8.    The loans shall bear interest at a rate of 8-1/2% per annum on the outstanding
balance, or such other rate as the Borrower, NDCA and the Association shall have
otherwise agreed.
Disbursement
9.    NDCA shall generally disburse its loans to cooperative societies, TTB and
TTPC in kind, including goods and services financed by direct payments by NDCA
to contractors under contracts entered into by cooperative societies, TTB or TTPC,
respectively. Whenever it shall be necessary for NDCA to disburse a portion of
any of its loans to any cooperative society in cash, NDCA shall ensure that this
cash is exclusively used by that cooperative society for the procurement of goods
or services for farmer members, particularly that that cooperative society does not
use it for making cash loans to farmer members.
On-Lending by Cooperative Societies
10.  NDCA shall ensure, by provisions in its loan agreements with the cooperative
societies or otherwise, that the cooperative societies on-lend the proceeds of the
seasonal and medium-term loans to farmer members on terms and conditions and
following procedures acceptable to NDCA.
Other Terms and Conditions of NDCA Loans to Cooperative Societies
11.   Each loan agreement shall include provisions for the following:
(a)   that the cooperative society shall allow representatives of the Borrower,
NDCA, TTB and the Association to visit the cooperative society,
including all land cultivated by its members;
(b)   that the cooperative society shall maintain separate and identifiable
accounts pertaining to the Project and will furnish the NDCA and the
Association such information regarding those accounts and the overall
accounts of the cooperative society as either NDCA or the Association
shall reasonably request;


﻿13
(c)   that the cooperative society shall not make loans to any farmer member
to enable him to grow more than two acres of flue-cured tobacco
in any year unless that farmer is permitted to grow such larger acreage
in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.03 (a) of the
Development Credit Agreement;
(d)   that the cooperative society shall deduct the debt service obligations
of any of its members before it makes any cash payments to such
members;
(e)   that the cooperative society shall not purchase any tractor or other
vehicles or any baling sheds, except as provided for in Section 4.04
(b) of the Development Credit Agreement;
(f)   that the cooperative society shall accept the assistance of the
Cooperative Inspector referred to in Section 4.02 (c) (ii) of the
Development Credit Agreement, in managing its affairs for a period
of not less than five years after its establishment; and
(g)   that the cooperative society shall accept such other terms and
conditions which NDCA considers reasonable, including conditions
resulting from recommendations in the reports referred to in paragraphs
14 (c) and 14 (d) below.
Supervision
12.  NDCA shall ensure that amounts drawn on loans are applied exclusively to
the purposes for which they were lent and its staff shall regularly visit cooperative
societies, TTB and TTPC facilities to ensure that the cooperative societies, TTB
and TTPC are complying with the terms of their respective loan agreements.
Loan Recoveries from Cooperative Societies and Farmers
13.  NDCA    shall make arrangements with TTB for deducting debt service
obligations of the cooperative societies from the proceeds of their sales of flue-cured
tobacco to TTB, or directly across any auction floor. Such deductions shall amount
to 75% of the value of any payments that would otherwise have been made to
any of these cooperative societies until its debt service obligations have been fully
met for that season.
Appraisal of Loan Applications by NDCA
14.   In appraising a loan application from any eligible cooperative society, NDCA
shall ensure inter alia that:


﻿14
(a)   a suitable Maximum of Liability Certificate shall have been issued by
the Registrar of Cooperatives;
(b)   a general meeting of the cooperative society shall have approved the
loan application;
(c)   a confidential report on the loan application shall have been received
from the Tobacco Project Officer; and
(d)   the accounts and financial operations of the cooperative society shall
have been examined by the Financial Analyst of NDCA and a report
shall have been made thereon.
15.   In appraising a loan application from TTB or TTPC, NDCA shall ensure inter
alia that:
(a)   the Board of TTB or TTPC shall have approved the loan application;
and
(b)   in all cases, the loan application shall be accompanied by cost estimates
based on detailed designs.


