Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2678-UR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE PUERTOS
TO BE GUARANTEED
BY THE
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR A
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
December 28, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 1979)
Currency Unit          =          New Uruguayan Peso (NUr$)
NUr$1                  =          100 Centavos (ctv)
NUr$7.7                 =         US$1
NUr$1,000               =         US$129.80
NUr$1,000,000           =         US$129.800.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ANP     =   Administracion Nacional de Puertos
1DB     =   Inter-American Development Bank
MTOP    =   Ministerio de Transportes y Obras Publicas
UNDP    =   United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT
LoaLn and Project Summary
Borrower:                   kiLministracion Nacional de Puertos (ANP)
Guarantor:                  Republica Oriental del Uruguay
Amount:                     US$50 million equivalent
Terms:                      Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at: 7.95 per annum
Project Description:        The proposed project, which covers 66% of ANP's
1978-1982 development program for the Port of
Montevideo, consists of: (i) acquisition of equipment
and modification of an existing wharf for use as a
container and bulk cargo terminal; (ii) procurement
of- equipment and improvement of pavement and sheds
for general cargo operations; (iii) purchase of two
harbor tugs; (iv) acquisition of a bucket dredge
with auxiliary equipment and of a suction-hopper
dredge; (v) technical assistance to ANP for the
excecution of the investments included in the
development program, institutional strengthening
and planning studies.
Benefits and Risks:         Expected economic benefits from the proposed project
would consist of reduced port operating and mainte-
nance costs for ANP and ship servicing and waiting
times for ocean carriers. The net effect of
these improvements would be reductions in transport
ciDsts to users: primarily to consumers of imports
and the producers of exports in Uruguay. The
project would improve Uruguay's positLoa in
foreign trade and potentially contribute to the
country's economic recovery. There are risks
inherent in ANP's inexperience with the imple-
mentation of a large-size port development program,
which may result in delays and cost overruns;
flarthermore, the expected benefits may not be
dierived from the project if operational changes
do not occur as new equipment is introduced.
Proposed technical assistance to ANP would
minimize these risks, which are not unusual for
projects of this kind.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Investment Category: 1/
Local      Foreign      Total
------- US$ million -------
1.   Container and Bulk Cargo Terminal           2.6         8.6        11.2
2.   General Cargo Handling Equipment            0.7         3.6         4.3
3.   Harbor Tugs                                 0.3         6.2         6.5
4.   Dredging Equipment                          1.4        24.4        25.8
5.   Technical Assistance to ANP                 0.6         2.4         3.0
Base Cost                             5.6        45.2        50.8
Contingencies:
(a)  Physical                                    0.4         0.3         0.7
(b)  Price                                       0.9         6.0         6.9
Subtotal                 1.3         6.3         7.6
Total                    6.9        51.5        58.4
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign      Total
------ US$ million -------
ANP                      6.9         1.5         8.4
Bank                       -        50.0        50.0
Total                    6.9        51.5        58.4
Estimated Disbursements:
FY                1980   1981   1983   1983
Annual              1.5   24.0   20.0    4.5
Cumulative          1.5   25.5   45.5   50.0
Economic Rate of Return:   24%
Appraisal Report:            Report No. 2642a-UR, dated December 28, 1979
1/   The proposed project represents 66% of the Development Program (1978-1982)
for the Port of Montevideo.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN FOR MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT TO
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE PUERTOS (ANP)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Administracion Nacional de Puertos (ANP) with the guarantee of the Republica
Oriental del Uruguay for the equivalent of US$50.0 million to help finance the
proposed Montevideo Port Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, at an interest rate of 7.95 per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic mission visited Uruguay in May 1979.  The section below
reflects the findings of this mission and its report is expected to be distri-
buted in December 1979. The previous Economic Memorandum (2241-UR) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in December 1978. A summary of Country
Basic Data is attached as Annex 1.
Economic Performance
3.        After having become one of the most prosperous countries in Latin
America in the first half of the twentieth century, Uruguay's economy deteri-
orated steadily in the next two decades. This was the result of policies that
favored urban consumption andL high-cost industrial import substitution at the
expense of investment, exports and growth. A well-educated and predominantly
urban population generated increasing demands for high employment,-better
public services and social benefits. The attempts to meet these demands took
the form of fiscal, exchange rate and price policies that resulted in a
sustained transfer of income out of the resource-rich agricultural and live-
stock sector mainly into consumption by the urban population. Industrial sector
development, initially stimulated by shortages of consumer goods during World
War II, was fostered through a deliberate import substitution and protection
policy during the immediate post-war era. However economic growth faltered as
agricultural production, productivity and exports declined after the Korean War.
Moreover, industrial import substitution possibilities in the small domestic
market were largely exhaustedl. Unemployment and underemployment rose sharply.
Government policies aimed at maintaining urban income and consumption levels
resulted in strong inflationary pressures, capital flight and serious misalloca-
tion of resources.  During the early 1970s, political and social unrest marked
by urban terrorism and labor strife further discouraged savings, investment and
any initiative to expand output and exports.
4.        Uruguay had instituted comprehensive welfare legislation in the
1920s when the potential from livestock seemed inexhaustible. Progressive
legislation covering such areas as social security retirement and survivors'
pensions, job security, unemployment compensation, free health and education
services provided mechanisms for redistributing income. Uruguay was thus able
to achieve a relatively high level of social progress as evidenced by an in-
come distribution pattern which compares favorably with that of many developed
countries. Although Uruguay experienced a drop in per capita income during
1/   This section is similar to the section on the economy contained in
the President's Report for the Fifth Power Project (Report No. P-2657-UR
of November 26, 1979).



- 2 -
the 1960s and early 1970s, the country has attained levels that are comparable
to those of some developed countries and above those of most developing
countries in health (life expectancy at birth of 70 years), education (94%
literacy rate), and nutrition (per capita intake of protein of 100 grams per
day).
5.        The redistribution mechanisms were not, however, immune to economic
instability--and, in effect, contributed to it. The uncoordinated growth of
the social security system and its liberal benefits, coupled with a stagnant
economy and rapid inflation, caused increasing stress on the country's resources.
Larger transfers from the Central Government were increasingly needed to
provide decreasing real benefits to a larger number of people. In addition
to the financial burden on the Government, the high level of contributions
required by the system from employers increased the real cost of labor.
This high cost, coupled with the incentives to the use of capital inherent in
the import substitution strategy, acted as a brake on the creation of employ-
ment. Moreover, the inadequate level of real benefits, together with the old
age structure of the population, resulted in a large number of people working
past retirement age (though as retirement was at 55 years, this was not neces-
sarily a great burden) and this further limited employment opportunities for
the groups entering the labor force.
6.        The structural changes in the world economy that emerged in late
1973 had a strong impact on the Uruguayan economy. The threefold increase in
the price of imported oil (upon which the country is entirely dependent),
substantial increases in other import prices, and the closing of the European
Economic Community to meat imports contributed to a sharp reversal in the
balance of payments, a precipitous deterioration of fiscal performance and to
an acceleration of domestic inflation. The economic team appointed in mid-1974
recognized that long-term solutions to the country's economic problems went
beyond stabilization and required a fundamental reorientation of economic
management away from an inward-looking towards an export-oriented development
strategy. The basic objectives of the new program were the improvement of
resource allocation and productive efficiency through greater reliance on the
price mechanism, and the promotion and diversification of nontraditional
exports, i.e., those other than beef and wool. The achievement of these
objectives required the freeing of domestic prices and the liberalization of
the foreign trade and payment system from the burdensome controls instituted
in the past.
7.        The rapid implementation of export-oriented development measures
yielded unexpectedly rapid and positive results in 1975-78, enabling Uruguay
to surpass most of the performance targets embodied in three successive standby
agreements with the IMF. Government economic policy during this period con-
centrated on fostering growth in the commodity-producing sectors by eliminating
various types of controls that distorted resource allocation, and by achieving
a more realistic exchange rate in order to promote exports. Quantitative and
financial controls on imports of raw materials and capital goods were elimi-
nated; price ceilings on many domestic products were lifted; interest rates on
deposits and loans were freed; and nontraditional exports were successfully
stimulated through a policy of minidevaluations and the establishment of a
system of tax rebates. Reversing policies that prevailed for thirty years, the
government eliminated controls on pricing and marketing of agricultural goods
in the third quarter of 1978. While the immediate effect of the removal of



-3-
the ceiling was to increase beef prices by about 20%, the difference between
international and domestic prices, the measure should help in the medium term to
improve efficiency in the sector and lead to higher supplies, without undermining
the Government's anti-inflation program. In continuation of its liberalization
policies, the Government reduced maximum levels of import duties and surcharges
in January 1979.
8.        The economy responded to these changed policies by achieving an
annual average GDP growth of about 3.2% during 1974-78, compared with an
annual decline of 0.2% during the previous four years. Gross domestic invest-
ment also increased from an average of 13.5% of GDP in the period 1970-74 to
18.3% in 1977/78. Production of nontraditional exports, particularly leather
and textile manufactures, led the recovery of the economy and was instrumental
in initiating a remarkable turnaround in the external sector which has
continued since 1976. As a result the current account balance continued to
improve as the deficit declined from US$190 million in 1975 to an average of
US$85 million during 1976-78, which together with strong private capital
inflows, resulted in increasing gains in net foreign exchange reserves of
US$112 million, US$154 milliLon and US$181 million in 1976, 1977 and 1978,
respectively, compared with a loss of US$65 million in 1975. Moreover, the
inflation rate had been reduced to an average of about 50% in 1976-78, from a
level of 67% in 1975 and 107% in 1974, owing to a combination of more res-
trictive monetary management and incomes policy, and--above all--improving
fiscal performance. The Central Government fiscal deficit was reduced from
4.5% of GDP in 1974-75, to 2.5% in 1976, notably surpassing the target of
3.4% stipulated in a standby agreement with the IMF.  The marked fiscal
improvement was brought about by a combination of increased collection of
revenues from the value-added tax and IMPROME (a tax on imputed income on
agricultural land), and restraint of current expenditures.  As a result of
the reactivation of the economy, and the diversity of redistribution mechanisms,
the economic liberalization and stabilization program does not appear to have
significantly affected income distribution.l/
9.        The Central Government's fiscal situation continued to improve
in 1977-78 (an average overall deficit of 1.2% of GDP). The policy of wage
restraint enabled the Government to restrict current expenditures and finance
a larger investment program. The Government's wage policy has also been
instrumental in maintaining a relatively low level of inflation during 1976-78
as compared to 1974-75. The increased inflationary pressures in 1977, caused
by a poor harvest and the monetary expansion resulting from accumulation of
foreign exchange reserves, were controlled through monetary measures introduced
in late 1977. As a result, the rate of inflation declined from 57% in 1977 to
46% in 1978.
10.       During the latter part of 1978 and in early 1979, the Government
freed the livestock industry from price and marketing controls and initiated
a process of tariff reduction. Private sector investment responded strongly
1/  Major changes have been. for the middle 60% of population, whose share of
total income declined from 50.5% in 1968 to 47.8% in 1976, as the top 20%
increased from 43.4% to 46.7%. The share of the bottom 20% showed a
slight decline during the stabilization program, from 6.1% in 1968 to
5.5% in 1976. In all, this income distribution compares favorably with
most developing countries, and is similar to many of the developed
countries.



- 4 -
to these moves and together with increased demand arising from capital inflows
and tourists has resulted in a strong surge in economic activity. While the
balance of payments position and the fiscal situation remain favorable, in-
creased economic activity has been accompanied by the rate of inflation
increasing to about 80% in 1979. The Government has opted for a high growth
strategy and believes that the rate of inflation will decline only gradually
as the restructuring of the economy and its program of import liberalization
are completed.
Economic Prospects
11.       The Government is attempting to shift the economic structure towards
a more open, export-oriented model. This shift is by no means easy in view of
the deep-seated rigidities which Uruguay's economy has acquired over the last
thirty years. High tariff protection and highly segmented public sector
management continue to hamper growth. Nevertheless, the success in stimulating
economic activity and turning around the balance of payments during the last
four years attests to the economy's responsiveness to a consistent set of
signals as the price mechanism is allowed to operate more freely. The key to
sustained growth for the future will depend on the Government's ability to
consolidate the recent gains through longer-term policies. Uruguay's long and
difficult experience in pursuing income distribution policies in the face of a
stagnant economy has led the authorities to give utmost priority over the
coming years to sustained growth.
12.       In broad terms, government policies aim to provide a propitious
economic environment for the fuller use of such advantages as the country's
highly literate labor force, its strategic location between Argentina and
Brazil, and a natural resource endowment suited to export-oriented agricultural
production, including the traditional livestock industry as well as the
largely untapped potential in crop production, food processing and fisheries.
13.       Provided that the sound orientation of fiscal, monetary and trade
policies already instituted is consolidated, the Uruguayan economy has the
capacity to grow at faster rates than in recent years (possibly some 5% p.a.
compared to about 1.0% during 1971-78). The expansion of both traditional
and nontraditional exports should provide the main impetus for growth. Beef
and wool exports will benefit from the recently enacted price and marketing
liberalization measures, the reasonably favorable price outlook, and the
successful penetration of new markets in recent years. Sustained growth of
manufacturing output and nontraditional exports should be possible with the
further development of such subsectors as leather products, textiles, processed
foods, fish and other manufacturing goods. Private sector investment should
provide the principal impulse for growth in the coming years in the form of the
rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of existing production units
rather than the establishment of new, large-scale ventures. The public sector
is expected to play a key supporting role by mobilizing financial resources,
rehabilitation of infrastructure and complementary services to the productive
sectors.
14.       Export expansion and diversification will require the modernization
of the country's capital stock. This implies heavy import requirements for key
infrastructure, new plant and equipment, rehabilitation of the existing stock,
and related intermediate inputs. Imports are also expected to increase as a
result of the Government's import liberalization policy. A rapid growth in



imports is to be expected under these policies possibly resulting in a trade
deficit averaging about US$140 million during 1980-82. With the development
of hydroelectric energy sources the volume of petroleum imports can be expected
to slow down and together with the expansion of beef exports, result in a
smaller trade deficits after 1983. The above trade projections combined with
steadily increasing net factor payments on public and private borrowing would
result in a widening of the current account deficit from an average of US$70
million during 1976-78 to an annual average of US$235 million in 1980-82.
Expansion of beef exports in 1982-83 in conjunction with reduced petroleum
imports may be expected to reduce the projected current account deficit to
about US$200 million by 1983. The current account deficits projected are
moderate and should lead to a further enhancement of Uruguay's creditworthiness
and to more favorable terms on external credits than in the recent past. The
relatively moderate gross external capital requirements for 1979-83 (estimated
at an annual average of US$225 million) can be expected to come partly from
existing and new commitments of multilateral and bilateral agencies. Private
financial institutions, suppliers' credits and Government bonds would provide
the major portion of the remainder.
15.       The remarkable turnaround in Uruguay's balance of payments since
1976 has enabled the authorities to amortize or refinance various commit-
ments contracted on unfavorable terms during the previous years. The volume
of commitments contracted during 1974-75, their relatively unfavorable
terms and prepayments of hard term loans resulted in a debt service ratio
of about 28% in 1977 and abiout 46% in 1978. However, such prepayments have
improved Uruguay's debt profile and the debt service ratio for the period
1979-83 is projected to be 12-13%. Under these circumstances, Uruguay
would remain creditworthy for the amounts of external capital required to
rehabilitate the country's capital stock and to achieve sustained economic
and social progress.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
15.       To date, Uruguay has received US$253.1 million (net of cancellations)
in Bank loans. As of September 30, 1979, the Bank held US$119.1 million,
including US$45.1 million tmdisbursed. On a sectoral basis, Bank assistance
to Uruguay (16 loans in total) has been for power (42%) and livestock (28%),
with some lending for industry (8%), transport (18%) as well as vocational
training and technological development (4%). IFC has made three investments
in Uruguay: in Fabrica Uruguaya de Neumaticos S.A. (US$3.8 million) to
introduce radial tire production, increase tire manufacturing capacity and
improve operating efficiency and product quality; in Acodyke Supergas S.A.
(US$950,000) to help finance a new liquid petroleum gas bottling plant; and
in Astra Pesquerias Uruguayas, S.A. (US$4.5 million and up to US$0.9 million
in equity) to help finance an integrated fishing and processing project.
Execution of these projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory. Annex II
contains a summary of Bank loans as of September 30, 1979 and IFC investments
as of October 31, 1979, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.



- 6 -
16.       Bank lending in Uruguay in FY78 consisted of a loan of US$9.7 million
equivalent for a Vocational Training and Technological Development Project.
In FY79, a loan of US$26.5 million was approved in April for a Second Highway
Project. In FY80, a loan of US$24.0 million was approved in December for a
Fifth Power Project. In addition to the proposed project, work is underway
on agriculture and industrial credit projects for possible consideration by
the Executive Directors during the next two years.
17.       The Bank, in its program in Uruguay, is trying to assist the Govern-
ment in implementing an economic strategy designed to put the economy on a
path of sustained growth. Towards this end, all operations are aimed at
policies and programs that will support the continued recovery of the economy
within a framework of financial stability. More specifically, the objectives
of the Bank's program are to: (i) foster productive activities by promoting
the expansion and diversification of export earnings; (ii) help strengthen the
country's sectoral policies and public sector institutions; (iii) improve
and promote the integration of the economy with the large markets of neighbor-
ing Argentina and Brazil, as well as with overseas markets; and (iv) assist the
country to develop policies and programs to diversify its sources of energy.
18.       The proposed project is designed to support the Government's effort
to rehabilitate and modernize the country's key infrastructure to foster
sustained economic growth, rising income, exports, and employment. As in
the case of other transport investments supported by the Bank, the proposed
project will also assist Uruguay's efforts to integrate with its neighbors
(Brazil and Argentina), which are its major trading partners. Bank lending
for agriculture is directed at increasing crop production to assist Uruguay
in achieving self-sufficiency in grains and increasing and diversifying its
export earnings. Bank assistance for industry, including vocational training
and technological development, is designed to help expand non-traditional
exports, the principal motor of economic growth; at the same time, Bank
lending will continue to support simplifying the cumbersome tariff and import
regulation structure and lowering the rate of protection, which is necessary
to increase the efficiency of the industrial sector.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN URUGUAY
19.       With its economy largely based on primary and processed agricultural/
livestock products, Uruguay is heavily dependent for its continued economic
growth on the development of its transport sector. Bordered by the two
largest countries in South America, Argentina on the west and Brazil on the
north, and with more than half of its national boundary navigable coastline
on the south and east, the country is geographically unusually well endowed
for the export-oriented development strategy being pursued. The country's
economic difficulties referred to above have, however, led to a general
neglect of an adequate pace of maintenance and rehabilitation of infra-
structure facilities with the result that much of the existing transport
system in Uruguay is antiquated and inadequate for future needs. To define
key development issues in the sector, a comprehensive survey of the national



-7
transport system was undertaken with UNDP assistance in 1976-1978, with the
Bank as executing agency. This survey established a general framework for
transport investment and identified four areas of highest priority need:
strengthening of national transport planning; improvements in road rehabilita-
tion and reconstruction; reductions in railroad operations and deficit; and
port modernization.
20.       The concentration of Uruguay's commercial activity and population
in the capital of Montevideo is reflected in the country's transport system.
The interior, with relatively flat terrain, main rivers at boundaries, and
low density agricultural activity, offered no obstacles to development of
radial roads and rail networks extending north, east and west from the
metropolitan region around the seaport of Montevideo. This port, with its
favorable location at the mouth of the La Plata River, is the country's focal
point for foreign trade and also serves inland and coastal navigation.
The Transport System
(i) Maritime Transport and the Port of Montevideo
21.       Over 90% of Uruguay's foreign trade depends on maritime transport,
most of which is served through the port of Montevideo. Uruguay's exports
consist largely of agriculitural products, with meat, rice and wool predomi-
nating; however, "non-traditional" exports, such as shoes, garments and leather
accessories are becoming increasingly important. Imports in mixed general
cargo are largely machinery and other manufactured goods, and, in dry bulk
commodities, comprise fertilizers and chemicals. Public terminal facilities
at the port of Montevideo handled between 1.0 and 1.5 million tons in recent
years and traffic through Montevideo is expected to grow moderately, from 1.5
million tons in 1978 to 1.9 million tons in 1983 and 2.7 million tons in 1990.
This includes only Uruguayan imports and exports now handled at general cargo
berths (break-bulk, containers and in bulk); it excludes petroleum products,
handled at a separate facility, and transit traffic (not significant at
present).
22.       Uruguay's foreign trade is handled predominantly by liner services
which call at Montevideo on their way to and from Buenos Aires. This pattern
of operation, dictated by the location of Buenos Aires upstream of Montevideo
takes advantage of the deeper draft available in the access channel and port
of Montevideo (with 10.0 m nominal depth), allowing vessels to lighten before
entering the La Plata River channel (with 9.0 m nominal depth) and, on return
from Buenos Aires, to take on additional cargo, fuel, water and provisions
before starting an oceanic voyage. The same pattern of operation is
also used, to a limited extent, by charter vessels in the grain trade
"topping off" in Montevide!o with Uruguayan exports, after loading first at
Rosario, Buenos Aires or other Argentine ports on the Parana River. There
are four secondary ports in Uruguay, located along the La Plata and
Uruguay Rivers where draft: limitations range from 9.0 m to 4.5 m: Colonia,
Nueva Palmira, Fray Bentos and Paysandu. Traffic through these ports consists
mainly of cereals and construction materials, exported to Argentina and Brazil.



- 8 -
23.       The geographic location of Montevideo is such that it is possible
that inland traffic, beyond Uruguay's borders, can be developed to a signifi-
cant level in coming years; factors that would favor such a development in
the future are the construction of a rail link to Argentina, over the dam
at Salto Grande, and international agreements among the Southern Cone
countries that would permit the transfer of freight across borders in bond,
simplifying customs procedures. Such developments, however, are potentials
only for the medium and longer term; they do not enter into the determina-
tion of the immediate needs for physical improvement.
24.       The existing port facilities at Montevideo were constructed between
1905 and 1931; there has been little change in the structures since that time.
Massive masonry wharves and cobble-stone pavement provide the setting for
present port operations. Originally designed to accommodate 14 ocean vessels,
the port has an effective capacity of 11 berths for the larger ships currently
in use. Most port equipment is over forty years old and, though less than
efficient by today's standards, represents a considerable achievement in
maintenance. The cost of this undertaking, however, has also been high
and continues to affect the cost of vessel and cargo operations within the
port. Maintenance dredging of the harbor and its access channel, tug services
for vessels entering and leaving the port, and cargo transfer between vessels
and inland transport modes are areas in which the age and obsolescence of
equipment now in use are particularly significant at Montevideo. The lack of
specialized installations for handling of dry-bulk and container traffic are
also important factors in present and prospective port costs.
25.       Administracion Nacional de Puertos (ANP) is the national organiza-
tion entrusted with the administration of ports. Created in 1916 as an
autonomous agency, ANP is responsible to the Ministry of Transport and Public
Works (MTOP) and functions under the direction of a three-member Board of
Directors nominated by the Government. The responsibilities of ANP include, in
the case of all ports, the carrying out of loading and discharging operations,
lighterage, towage, and salvage and, in the case of Montevideo only, investments
in equipment for providing maritime and land services, granting concessions for
such services and, with prior approval of the Government, fixing tariffs for
port services.
26.       In the last few years ANP has made considerable progress in certain
areas, such as:
(1) Better port operations and improved vessel dispatch since 1974
which has resulted in the removal of the penalty surcharge on
international traffic that had been levied by major shipping
conferences;
(2) reduction in the total number of port employees, from about
8,000 in 1972 to some 5,600 in mid-1978; and
(3) consistent reductions in total port operating costs in real
terms between 1974 and 1978, despite increases in port
traffic.



- 9 -
Despite these improvements, ANP's costs are still high and efficiency is
low. The total number of staff is still excessive for the traffic handled,
especially in the administrative and maintenance departments. The ANP
organization is badly fragmented and systems are outmoded and slow.
Salaries are low and there is a shortage of qualified staff in technical
and management areas.
27.       ANP docs not prepare any real financial plan for the port and
budgets do not get issued until late in the year for which they are supposed
to apply. A major factor wrhich impairs ANP's ability to make financial plans
is the current Government practice of granting exemptions from port fees on
the imports of a number of port users. In recent years these exemptions
have increased substantially in importance (in 1978, 25% of ANP's charges
were waived), but ANP continues to be profitable (see para. 48).
(ii) Highways
28.       Roads currently account for about 73% of the total freight traffic
carried within the country. The road network consists of some 50,000 km, of
which 9,800 km are national roads maintained by MTOP. One-third of the
national network is paved, and about 90% of this third lies in the radial
system originating in Montevideo. The remainder of the network, 40,000 km,
consists of secondary and feeder roads largely maintained by the departments
and municipalities. The coverage of the national road network is adequate;
the principal problem is its age and seriously deteriorated condition, notably
on some of the international connections, which have considerable importance
given the country's trade with its neighbors, and low standard feeder roads
in some areas of the country which offer restricted service availability.
29.       Traffic growth in Uruguay has been low over the last decade.  High
average vehicle age, deteriorating road conditions, rising fuel prices and
the overall state of the economy have inhibited the growth of traffic. In
the road transport industry, trucking companies with principally international
operations are few, and they operate truck fleets which are reasonably modern
but smaller than the average for Latin America. International freight rates
offered by Uruguayan firms are competitive with those of Argentine and Brazilian
operators. The level of service offered and the capacity of the truck and bus
fleet are broadly adequate for the demand.
(ii) Railways
30.       The railway network of 3,000 km radiates in five lines from Montevideo.
Passenger traffic has halved since the early 1950s to its lowest level in 1972
at 343 million pass-km. No substantial long distance passenger traffic exists
today, with the major part of traffic consisting of suburban commuters,
concentrated within 100 km of Montevideo. Freight traffic had, by 1975,
fallen to 290 million ton-km compared with 445 million ton-km in 1965.
Principal items of freight are limestone, rice, and, of lesser importance,
other grains, sugar and fertilizers. Despite its deterioration, the railway
network still carries 20% of Uruguay's freight and passenger traffic. The
managerial and operating procedures of the government railway company are
antiquated and inefficient. This, combined with the poor physical and largely



- 10 -
obsolete condition of the system results in financial losses (these amounted
to over US$7 million in 1976). The transport survey referred to in paragraph
19 concluded that all rail traffic could be carried more efficiently on roads.
However, recognizing that complete closure of the rail system is a remote
possibility, the study recommended a further survey of limitation of the
passenger service to commuter lines near Montevideo and of freight service
to specialized bulk cargoes such as minerals, fuels and grain.
(iii) Aviation
31.       Air transport has developed slowly in Uruguay, principally because
of the concentration of population in the Montevideo area, the country's easy
topography, resulting in an abundance of surface transportation, and the short
distances involved. Domestic air traffic has increased considerably in recent
years, but the total number of domestic passengers (88,000 in 1978) remains
low. International traffic, mostly related to travel in the River Plate area,
totaled about 495,000 passengers in 1978. Uruguay's main functioning interna-
tional airport is located in Carrasco (Montevideo). A military airport to the
north (Durazno) has been upgraded to emergency alternative status. Maldonado,
near the tourist resort of Punta del Este, has only daylight operations.
Commercial airline operations are dominated by PLUNA, a state-owned company.
Services to several domestic airports are provided by TAMU (Transportes Aereos
Militares Uruguayos).
Transport Planning and Coordination
32.       MTOP was created in 1967 and is responsible for the development
of national transport policy, transport coordination and establishment of
tariffs for transport services. The Ministry has nominal jurisdiction over
the investment plans and operational policies and practices of the modal
agencies. In practice, however, their plans and policies are formulated
independently of MTOP.  Sector management and intermodal coordination have
been badly neglected in the past. Lack of sectoral coordination has a long
history, starting early this century with the parallel and often competitive
development of the then foreign-owned railway and the national highway network.
The almost complete absence, until the 1978 transport study, of data on trans-
port costs and demand has frustrated any efforts in this regard. To overcome
the problem and help the planning of future maintenance, rehabilitation and
reconstruction works, the Bank-supported Second Highway Project (paragraph 35)
included a technical assistance component to provide for permanent traffic
counting and an implementation program.
33.       As a first step toward improving transport planning and coordina-
tion, in December 1977, the government established a Transport Advisory
Council. This Council is led by the National Directorate of Transportation
and includes the Railways Administration, the state airline (PLUNA), the
Airports Administration, the ANP and the Government Planning Secretariat.
This Council is preparing a national transport plan, which is to be based
largely on the 1978-1982 investment plan recommendations of the transport



- 11 -
study. A transport planniLng unit within MTOP, staffed with counterparts from
the sector survey, is currently assisting the Transport Advisory Council in
preparing the national transport plan. The Second Highway Project in conjunc-
tion with a UNDP grant provides technical assistance by specialized consultants
to strengthen this unit. Included in their program of work is the completion
by June 30, 1981 of a study comparing costs as between transport modes, initiated
by the transport sector survey, which would serve as the basis for coordination
of transport policies and investments.
Bank Participation in the Transport Sector
34.       The proposed project would be the third Bank operation in the
transport sector and the first in the port subsector. The Bank's first
operation in the sector was a highway loan made in 1963 (Loan 324-UR,
US$18.5 million equivalent) to help finance the improvement of Route 5
from Montevideo north to Rivera on the Brazilian border (about 500 km),
strengthening of highway maintenance, including the purchase of equipment,
and a highway planning study. The improvement of Route 5 consisted
mainly of paving and bridge replacement or improvement. The works were
completed satisfactorily with a 14% cost overrun but not until 1971,
five years behind schedule. The delay was mainly due to poor contractor
performance. Traffic in 1971 showed an average increase of about 50%
over appraisal estimates. As a result of equipment purchases under the
project, maintenance of the national network improved considerably and
with the help of consultants employed under the project the quality of
maintenance work performed in the Highway Directorate's workshop was
raised to a satisfactory level, and overall organization was improved.
35.       The second Bank operation in the sector was also a loan for
highways (Loan 1689-UR, UJS$26.5 million equivalent); approved by the Board
on April 17, 1979, it wi'Ll assist in the reconstruction of the most heavily
traveled portion of Route 8 (another important link with Brazil) and improve
road rehabilitation and transport planning capabilities. This loan is not
yet effective.
Montevideo Port Development
(i) Background
36.       In 1968, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) made two loans
to ANP, in the total amount of US$11.95 million equivalent, for the acquisition
of port equipment; included in this loan were funds for a study by consultants
to determine, inter alia, the type and amount of equipment to be acquired
under the loan. This study was completed in 1973; however, ANP did not accept
a number of its recommendations, in particular those concerning the technical
recommendations for dredging and the proposed type and amounts of technical
assistance, which ANP considered excessive for its requirements. Most equipment
purchases were delayed. In 1975, IDB canceled the undisbursed balance of its
loan (US$9.55 million).



- 12 -
(ii) The 1978-1982 Development Program
37.       In mid-1977, ANP submitted to the Government a five-year port devel-
opment program which included a general description of proposed investments,
which at present total close to US$89 million equivalent. This program is
focused on improvement of existing terminal facilities, with primary emphasis
on equipment renewal, upgrading of maintenance, and modernization and does
not include major expansion, such as new berth construction.
38.       There are three principal groups of investments:  (i) cargo handling
equipment and related ancillary investments to reduce port handling costs and
add capacity to existing berths (total cost: US$37.2 million); (ii) dredging
equipment, including a grab-bucket dredge and auxiliary equipment and a
suction-hopper dredge (to maintain existing port channels; total cost: 30.9
million); (iii) tug boats (to eliminate obsolete equipment; total cost: US$7.3
million); and (iv) miscellaneous items, including a silo and a fishing pier
(total cost: US$13.5 million). The program, which received official Gov-
ernment approval in 1978, has been reviewed by the Bank and a number of
modifications have been agreed upon (bringing the development program to
US$88.9 million). ANP has undertaken not to modify the agreed development
program without prior Bank approval (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). In its revised form, the Montevideo port development program is
considered appropriate in scope and content to meet the priority needs of
international commerce.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       A report entitled Staff Appraisal Report:  Montevideo Port Project
(No. 2642a-UR) dated December 28, 1979 is being distributed separately. A
Loan and Project Summary is placed at the front of this report. A supplemen-
tary Project Data Sheet is appended as Annex III. The project was identified
in August 1977, subsequently prepared with the assistance of UNDP-financed
advisors to ANP, and appraised by a Bank mission that visited Uruguay in May
1979. Negotiations were held in Washington from November 5 to 14, 1979. The
Uruguayan delegation was led by Ing. Juan Jose Anichini, Alternate Governor
for the Bank, representing the Government and by Col. Hector Calafi, Vice
President of ANP, representing ANP.
Project Objectives
40.       The proposed project is an integral part of ANP's ongoing (1978-1982)
Development Program for the Port of Montevideo (paragraphs 37-38); it consists
of selected equipment and civil works components of the program for which ANP
requested Bank financing and technical assistance to ANP required for program
implementation and institutional improvements.
41.       The project has the dual purpose of: (i) increasing the operating
efficiency and throughput capacity of existing terminal facilities in the
Port of Montevideo through the introduction of modern handling methods and



- 13 -
equipment, thereby improving the integration of the country with its trading
partners; and (ii) setting in motion an institutional effort to improve
the programming and executing capacity for the port investments required
in the 1980's. Given the central role of the port in Uruguay's export-led
development policy, the proposed project should provide more reliable trans-
port services to the country's trading partners and enhance the competitiveness
of the country's production. The project would:
(a) convert an existing, open wharf into a modern terminal for
the handling of large shipments of dry-bulk imports such as
fertilizers and for the transfer of cargo in containers;
(b)  reduce congestion and operating costs at existing general
cargo berths by introducing palletized handling methods and
replacing the present system of "direct transfer" between ship
and truck (or rail) with an "indirect transfer" system by
which most of the cargo will be moved through the existing
transit sheds;
(c) improve marine operations within the port and permit retire-
ment of large portions of ANP's obsolete fleet of harbor
-craft through the acquisition of modern tugs and dredging
equipment; and
(d)  introduce modern administrative, financial and planning
procedures for port management and future development,
including the removal of the existing ad valorem port
charges system and the establishment of a cost-based tariff
system that wil:L provide more rational use of the ports
facilities.
Project Description
42.       Specifically, tlhe project would consist of:
(a) Acquisition of equipment and modification of an existing wharf
for a container and bulk cargo terminal. This component would
include purchase of two rail mounted cranes of 35-ton lifting
capacity, equipped for operation with grab-buckets, container
spreaders or cargo hooks; widening and strengthening of
approximately 90 m of an existing (288-m long) wharf structure;
construction of crane rail supports for the full length of the
wharf; concrete paving over the wharf surface and adjacent
existing land areas; and acquisition of yard handling equip-
ment for dry bulk cargo and container operations.
(b) Procurement of equipment and improvement of pavement and sheds for
general cargo operations   This component would include acquisition
of about 60 forklift trucks, 8 mobile cranes and 5,000 pallets;
structural alterations to six existing, multi-story transit sheds
to facilitate indirect transfer operations based on utilizing the



- 14 -
sheds for interim storage to replace the existing system of transfer
immediately between ships and truck or freight car; and yard paving
around three existing, single-story transit sheds.
(c)  Purchase of two harbor tugs.  The tugs would be diesel-powered and
of standard design for assistance to ocean vessels in berthing and
unberthing operations. One tug would be designed for operations in
relatively sheltered harbor and channel areas only. The other would
be designed for seagoing operations to (i) provide capability for
assisting vessels in distress outside the port of Montevideo and
(ii) serve as standby at the offshore tanker mooring buoy near Punta
Jose Ignacio (about 145 km east of Montevideo).  It would have
equipment to combat oil spills.
(d) Acquisition of a bucket dredge with auxiliary equipment, and a
suction hopper dredge. The dredging equipment would comprise
grab-bucket and a suction-hopper dredge, three split-hull scows,
and a tug for towing the scows. ANP has agreed to prepare by
July 1, 1980 a program containing the timing for the retirement
of dredges (Section 4.04(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
(e)  Technical assistance to ANP.  This assistance would consist of
approximately 18 man-years of professional services for individual
advisors and engineering services to ANP, subsurface explorations
and planning studies (aimed at preparing a long-range development
plan).
Cost Estimates and Financing
43.       Out of ANP's 1978-1982 development program for the port of Montevideo
of US$88.9 million, the proposed project's cost is estimated at US$58.4 million
(65% of the total program). The project cost includes a foreign exchange
component of US$51.5 million. Pursuant to government regulations, the authori-
ties have expressed their intention to exempt the bulk of project-related
expenditures from taxes and duties. Equipment acquisitions represent 84% of
the estimated project total, civil works 11% and technical assistance, the
remaining 5% (at US$6,000 per man-month). A physical contingency allowance
of 15% was used for all civil works. As customary, no physical contingency
is applied to equipment items and technical assistance.  Contingencies for
price escalation are 7% annually for civil works and 6% annually for equipment,
on both local and external costs. Based on the project implementation schedule,
the average estimated price escalation throughout the implementation period
amounts to about 12% of project costs.
44.       The proposed Bank loan of US$50.0 million, covers about 56% of the
total cost of the development program, and 86% of the project cost (97% of the
foreign exchange component). The balance of project costs would be provided
by ANP from its own resources. For parts of the 1978-82 development program
for Montevideo not covered under the proposed project, ANP has already obtained
about US$16 million in financing from local banks and foreign suppliers'
credit to supplement its own resources.



- 15 -
Execution
45.       ANP would be responsible for execution of the project through a
project implementation unit:, which would be assisted by advisors forming part
of the technical assistance component of the project. The advisors referred
to in paragraph 42(e) would work within ANP's organization in support of
existing permanent staff or in temporary assignments to positions for which
permanent staff have not yet been recruited. In both cases, the tasks of the
advisors would be to provide professional services in their respective fields
of expertise in support of the 1978-1982 development program for the port of
Montevideo and to train ANP staff in the performance of these services. In
total 12 advisors are expected to work with ANP's Planning, Project Implemen-
tation, Finance and Operations Units. Services of advisors would be retained
on the basis of qualification, experience and conditions of employment satis-
factory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       A number of measures are being undertaken by ANP to help improve the
administrative and technical efficiency of the Port of Montevideo: first, ANP
has replaced the Planning and Technical Advisor by two Units - one with
responsibility for overall institutional and physical planning and the other
in charge of preparation aLnd implementation of projects in the development
program. These Units would be fully staffed by May 1, 1980 (Section 3.01(c)
of the draft Loan Agreement). Second, ANP has appointed a General Manager for
the Port and a Budget Officer, both with acceptable functions and responsi-
bilities. The General Manager has responsibility for coordinating all aspects
of the day-to-day operations and management of the port. The Budget Officer
has been assigned to the ]?lanning Unit with the specific responsibility of
preparing annual budgets. Third, ANP would prepare the following plans, to
be satisfactory to the Bank: (i) by January 1, 1981, a plan of selective
salary increases aimed at attracting and retaining suitably qualified personnel;
and (ii) by January 1, 1981, a plan for an overall staff reduction aimed at
diminishing ANP's personniel to about 4,500 employees by December 31, 1983
(Sections 3.01(d)(i) and (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       An important element in the execution of the project would be the
preparation of detailed engineering designs for all civil works, performance
specifications for major items of equipment and the institution of procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank, based on appropriate documentation for both
civil works and equipment components of the project. Full-time engineering
supervision of construction and professional inspection of major equipment
items (during fabrication and at times of delivery) would be required. As
civil works constitute only about 11% of project costs, and in order not
to delay execution of the! rest of the project, detailed engineering would be
carried out concurrently with the initial phases of procurement of equipment.
The physical contingencies under the project are adequate to make allowance
for any possible cost increases that may result from unexpected design changes.
Financial Position of AN?I
48.       ANP has been a profitable institution over the last five years.
Total revenues daring the period have averaged US$30 million and total
expenses have averaged US$24 million, and therefore the working ratio (working



- 16 -
expenses--i.e., expenses before depreciation and interest--divided by operating
revenues) averaged 80. Because of limited depreciation charges (since most
of the installations have been written off), operating ratios (which include
depreciation) have also averaged slightly over 80. These ratios have been
sufficient in the past to maintain a healthy financial position for ANP
because of the very small debt. As a result of substantial borrowing needed
to carry out the development program, it is projected that an improvement in
ratios will be required.
49.       ANP's ability to make financial plans has been impaired by the
existing Government practice of exempting certain users from port fees, a fact
which reflects inadequacies in the structure of its present port tariffs.
Adoption of an acceptable port tariff system, which would eliminate all tariff
exemptions, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section
7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement). Other changes to improve ANP's management, staffing and financial
administration and position would also be implemented. These changes include
the selective salary increases and continued reduction in staffing levels
mentioned above, and adjustments of tariffs as required to (i) achieve improved
working ratios (gradually declining from not more than 81% in 1980 to 68% in
1985 and thereafter); and (ii) ensure that the tariffs for each service cover
at least the marginal costs for providing such service (Sections 5.04(a)(i) and
(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       The ANP budget would be prepared and furnished to the Bank for
comment at least three months prior to the start of the budget year (Section
3.04(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Lastly, ANP has agreed on a series
of measures aimed at improving the financial information system available
for ANP and on covenants to ensure the entity's financial soundness. These
include retention of auditors, keeping financial data on a current basis
(reflecting current asset values), and limiting investments (to not more than
US$1 million per year) not included in the 1978-1982 development program
(Sections 5.02 and 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). Concerning indebtedness,
it has been agreed that ANP will not incur any additional debt, beyond that
already arranged, unless net cash generation for the preceeding 12 months
is at least 1.75 times the maximum total debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Monitoring
51.       Operational improvements to be achieved as a result of the project
and related administrative changes in the port organization have been defined
on the basis of performance targets agreed with ANP. These targets cover the
following major issues: staff reductions over the period 1980-1984; and working
ratio over the period 1980-1984 (Section 3.01(d)(ii) and Section 5.04(a)(i)
of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, key operating indicators to be
monitored during supervision would include tons of cargo handled per ship-day
in port; and dredging operations, to remove the backlog of deferred maintenance
work. Starting on April 1, 1980, ANP would prepare quarterly reports, satis-
factory to the Bank, on its financial condition (Section 4.06 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
52.       With the exception of minor civil works (for alterations to existing
transit sheds) which would be advertized locally, all items of equipment and



- 17 -
civil works to be financed under the proposed project would be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines.
53.       Disbursements of funds from the loan would be on the following basis:
(a) 40% of total expenditures for civil works (the estimated
foreign exchange component);
(b) 100% of foreign and 92% of local expenditures for equipment; and
(c) 80% of total expenditures for technical assistance.
Environmental Impact
54.       No significant environmental impact is expected in the city of
Montevideo and adjacent water areas as a result of ANP's 1978-1982 develop-
ment program since all proposed improvements are confined to relatively minor
physical changes in existing facilities that have operated in the same ioca-
tions since construction of the port in 1905-1931. However, environmental
considerations are a significant factor in the justification of the sea-going
tug to be included in this project, which would provise standby service at
the off-shore tanker terminal at Punta Jose Ignacio. While the terminal has
standard provisions against accidental oil spills, the possibility of a tanker
breaking loose from the buoy during a storm and being beached is a considerable
potential hazard to the natural environment and the tourism investments in the
area; the availability of the tug is expected to mitigate these dangers. The
tug would have equipment designed to combat oil spills.
Benefits and Risks
55.       Expected economic benefits from the proposed project would be reduced
port operating and maintenance costs for ANP and reduced ship servicing and
waiting times for ocean carriers. The net effect of these improvements would
be reductions in transport costs to users: primarily to consumers of imports
and the producers of exports in Uruguay. As a result, the project would
improve Uruguay's position in foreign trade and potentially contribute to the
country's economic recoveary.
56.       Based on the benefits Uruguay would receive from the reduction in
economic transport costs arising from each specific item, the economic rate
of return for general cargo handling equipment and the container/bulk cargo
terminal is estimated to be about 27%, about 36% for the new D-8 and about
18% for the new D-9 dredge, and for the smaller of the harbor tugs about 14%
and for the larger about 7%. In addition to the quantifiable benefits
limited to its port functions, the ocean-going 4,000 HP tug would help to
reduce the chance for or minimize accidental oil spills from tankers unloading
at the off-shore mooring buoy operated by ANCAP and would be useful in
carrying out rescue and salvage operations in Uruguay's territorial waters
which is ANP's responsibility by law. The overall rate of return for the
project is estimated at 24% (Some further benefits attributable to other
countries have not been included in the analysis).



- 18 -
57.       The proposed improvements at the port of Montevideo would not involve
unusual risks. However, project risks are inherent in ANP's inexperience with
the implementation of a port development program of the proposed scope, which
may result in delays and/or cost overruns; furthermore, the expected benefits
may not be derived from the project if operational changes do not occur as new
equipment is introduced. Proposed technical assistance to ANP would minimize
these risks. A sensitivity analysis of all project components except one for
major changes in costs and benefits showed economic rates of return from 10 to
33%. The rate of return of the 4,000 HP tug, will in no case be lower than
4%. Even this would be considered adequate because of the importance of the
unquantifiable environmental and safety benefits (see paragraph 56) which are
not included in the analysis. A special sensitivity test was made for the bulk
container terminal, assuming not only reductions in benefits and cost increases
but also implementation delays. This showed that this component would still
have a rate of return of at least 15%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Uruguay and
the Bank, the draft Loan Agreement between the Administracion Nacional de
Puertos and the Bank, and the recommendations of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section IV (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. A special condition of loan effectiveness would be the implementation of
a new port tariff system, which would include the discontinuance of exemptions
from port fees. It would also be a condition of effectiveness that a decree
has been enacted granting ANP the necessary authorization from government
agencies to carry out all procurement for the Project. This is expected to
accelerate procurement.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
December 28, 1979



19-                                                 ATTACHMENT I
TAtLC 3A
URtCUAI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
URUGUAT                    U!EfIENCE ROUP5 (ADJUStD &RAGES
LANDAREA (TROUSAND SO. Di.)                                                - MOST  ECENT  STIMATE) -
TOTAL            177.5                                                 SME         SAIZ    NEXT HIGHER
AGRCU.TURAL     154.6                                mmT IECtEIT    toWRUIC   INCO1           I2NCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b LESITIAT  /b     UGION /c  CROOP /t   GROUP I.
GNP PE  CAPITA (US$)                630.0       870.0   1610.0           1124.4    1942.6       3075.3
ENERGYt CONSuPTIO PELR CAPITA
(CLDGRAIS OF COA  PlQUIVA" )    825.0         930.0    10)O.0           963.1     1646.7      2518.6
POPULATION        VITAL  StAISTICS
PO?ATION, rKED-EA. (MILLIONS)       2.5         2.8       2.9
UU3AN 901flJ21   (PluT Of TOTAL) 80.1          82.1      83.0            59.3       51.2        72.1
POPUtATIN PROJECTIONS
povLATxowN isAT   2000 (LLIONS)                         3.0
STAXIOURT POPULAIO  (0IION)                             *.0
nAL  ATIoay   P5tMAnTO   ISL UAQ                     2065
POP1LATION tESInTY
FER SQ. Mt.                      16.0        16.0      16.0            U3.5       28.2        33.5
PRR SQ. IC. AGRICULTURAL LAUtD   16.0        17.0      19.0            80.5      100.5        91.3
POPUIATION AGE STRcrUUc (PE5)
0-16 US.                         28.2        28.7      28.0            *0.9       35.4        33.3
15-64 Tts.                        64.4        62.6      63.5            54.6       56.3        57.5
65 YS. AIM ADM                     7.4         6.7       8.5             3.9        5.1         5.7
POPULATION GROT  RAT (PECENT)
TOTAL                             1.5         1.1       0.3/f           2.4        1.7         2.1
URRO                              2.8         1.3       0.6             3.7        3.0
CIRDE 911TH RATS (PER TBUSAND)    22.0         21.0      20.0            32.8       27.5        31.4
CRUDE DEATF RATE (PE. TSOUSAND)     9.0         9.0       9.0             8.5        9.1         8.2
38S REPEOmUCTIONI RATE              1.6         1.4       1.4             2.6        1.8         1.9
FAMILY PLKAMC
ACCEPTORS, AEUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..        ..
USES (PCENT OF MwAIED 1o )    ..               ..        ..            17.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
=DEx oir tOo PKODUCTION
PR CAPITA (1964-71-100)          96.3       107.0      99.0            9.4       102.0        98.7
MU WITA SJPPLY of
CALOtIES (PERCENT OF
tEQUIRZENITS)                 115.0       114.0    116.0            107.0      120.8       112.7
PROTEINS (0RAKS tPE  DAY)        93.0        96.0      98.1            60.4       80.9        70.3
31 WHICH ANIM1AL AND PCLS     60.0        64.0      62.6            28.3       31.3
CNILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     4.0         3.0       3.0             6.7        5.1         2.5
HEALTH
L7FExPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEALS)    68.0         69.3      71.0            63.6       65.6       68.7
ISEANT H31TALITY RATE (PER
TROUSAID)                            ..          ..      49.0            76.1       45.5        20.8
ACCESS TO SAPE WAITE (PERCENT O
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        92.0      98.0            63.4       69.4        73.9
Ull.BAN                            ..       100.0    100.0             79.5       85.1        94.6
RumAL                              ..        59.0      87.0            38.6       43.0        64.6
8CCtSS TO EXCRLTS  DISPOSAL (PERCENT
Or ?OPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        82.0      83.0            58.8       70.1
UR3AN                              ..        97.0      97.0            77.8       88.3
RURAL                                        13.0      17.0            24.5       33.2
POPUL.ATION PER FHYSICIAN        1100.0/i    940.0    700.0            1841.9    1343.2       981.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..      3560.0        ..           933.7      765.0      397.8
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL 8C3
TOTAL                           180.0       150.0        ..           563.4      197.6       240.6
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..           279.4      260.2
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..          1140.9    1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER llOSPITAL 8E          ..          ..        ..            25.7       17.3        19.2
ROUSzNC
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
OTAL                              3.8/h        ..       3.6             5.0        4.7
URBAN                              ..          ..       3.6             4.8        4.4
RURAL                              ..          ..       4.0             5.3        5.1
AItRAGE W7SER OF PERSONS PER mo00m
tOtAL                             1.5/h        .        2.1             1.3        1.1
UTR3AN                            1.57W        ..       2.1             1.3        1.2
RURAL                              ..          ..       Z.1             1.5        1.2
ACCESS CO ELECO.RIClTY (?ERCEVt
OF Z4ELL:NGS)
-OOAL                            78.0/h        ..      80.7            54.3       i6.0
DR3A,N                           88.0Th        ..      89.2            80.1      85.1
RURAL                            zs.o7h        ..      27.8            14.2



- 20 -                                           ATTACHMENT I
Page 2
TABL! 3.
UWCUAY - SOCIAL INDICATOIS DATA SEE
URUGUAY                   REFERNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVElAGES
- .0"ST AECEfT ESTIMATE) )
SAKE        SAKE     NEX  KIGMER
OST RECENT      GEOZOGSAIC    INCoME       INcOME
1960 lb     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION Le   GROUP Id    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
AUMUS E AOLLWMZ RATIOS
PRIMAY:      TOTAL               111.0        106.0      95.0           107.3       101.7       107.6
MALE                111.0       108.0       95.0           109.1      110.0
PRULE               111.0       103.0      94.0            107.1.      92.8
SzCOIAZE:   TOTAL                 37.0        57.0       62.0            40.5       51.2         39.7
MALE                 35.0        51.0       57.0            *0.4       56.4
FDIALI               38.0        63.0      67.0.            39.0       *3.7
SOATIONAL UOL. (1 0t SDCUARX)  23.0              21.0      19.0            18.5        18.3
PUP L-T-ACUR RATIO
(JUY                              31.0         29.0      23.0            37.1       27.1
EMGMDARI                          13.0           ..        ..            17.9       25.3
ALS LITACT IAIS  (JCDST)               ..        91.0      94.0            77.4       86.1
CONS W3TION
tU21C CARS PREOSA
POPULATION                        39.0        *5.0       55.0            29.1       53.1         68.1
nislo RWIVZIS m   TKou3AmD
POPMLATIO1                       265.0       316.0     *90.0            172.1      225.9       210.3
TV RWIYRUS ME ThOSAND
POPUATIOON                         9.0        52.0      115.0            67.9      102.6        117.7
iEPAPtR ("'DAILT GREJIL
n=rST') CIWsATION PR
TNUUSAND POPULATION                   ..        140.0        ..            76.1       71.5
CILIDiA ANNUAL ATrDDANC   Mn CAPITA  9.0           ..        ..             4.2        3.6
LABOR FORCE
Lu iot FORB= (TESDS)              1000.0/b    1020.0    1200.0
PENLt (PECEN)                     24..6       27.5       26.5            21.5       24.5         27.2
AGRICULTI1 (PERCU)                20.6         15.2      12.0            30.2       28.9         23.8
UADOSTES (PICUT)                  29.5        31.2       32.0            23.8       30.6
PARTICIPATION LATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               *0.1         38.6      38.5            30.9       33.8         *0.1
KULE                                60.6         56.1      55.5            47.3       51.3         55.7
PUALE                               19.7         21.1      21.8            13.3       16.3         21.7
ECOllMIC D[PENUIC  RATIO               1.0          L.0       0.9             1.5         1.3         1.0
INCOmE DISTIBOTTON
PERCENT Of nP1S 7AC=
UECE7D By
aIGHEST 5 PERCZNT OF NOUSENLDS       .           .                       23.7
RIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF 8oaSREOLDS    ..        51.31i                     58.7       57.6
LONEST 20 PERCENT  OF MOUSEMOLDS    ..67T                  .              2.9        3.4
nlWEST .40 PERCzEN  0? SUSENULDS               13.3/i                     9.9       11.0
POVE1RTY TARCET GROUPS
E3ThI.AIED ASOLUTE POVERI INCOM4E
LEVEL (USS PER CITA)
URRAN                                                                   265.6
URAL                                ..          ..    288.0             185.1
ESTIATED RELTVE POVE   IlCtCOtE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
OB3AN                                .           .     *425.0           396.3      550.0
RUsRAL                               .                 *25.0            308.1      403.4
ESTDIATED POPUATION BELOW ASSO12
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
U&IAN                                                      .             35.2
RURAL                                                                    *6.6
Ntc available
Not *pplicable.
oa   The adjusted group averages for each indicAtor are populatioaneighted geometric geans, excluding the extreae
values of the indicator and the most populated councrY in each group. Coverage of councries among the
indicacors depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Ib   Unless other-ise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yea: between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent iEst.mate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Lacin Aoerica 1 Caribbean;  !d  Jpper Middle Income (51136-2500 per capita. 1976);  /e digh Income
(over 52500 per capitsa  1976);  7f  D.e to eamgration. population grovtb race is lowver than rate of
natural increase;  /   1962; lh  1963;  Li  1967.
Most &acent Earimte of GNP per capita is for 1979.
August. 1979



- 21 -                                                                         ATTACHKENT I
WUITIIN OF 802k MA, ICATORS
oNstas  Althaak the  aa  r  dre    fso  souce  genere11y judgd the met mothritati-e end reIible, it shoud ejee be notd that the   y -Jmt be item-
rM  li1  ce,rabie bscsse of the loot of stnidudiood deftoiti-a  sad -concepts sed by differet coutr. ies to cfletteg the data. The data  e,ietaa
useful to desc.ribe orders of   gitude, indicate trends, sod chrtriso cetain major differeece  beiteen costrie..
Th. adutd  ru  ae.Es for each indicator or  popatioo-eigbtd geomtric mesa,  -eliUdlg the estrsa nInes Of the indiator sad the meat ppgalta
..-etryIO  -b gIi7ie  o  ac.o  dta, grop acrges of l.. idioatnrs for Capita.1Srpu  Oil   porters and of indiotors of Acoas  to Water  ad Z-vu
DIteosm, tosing, Inca Didtrilbtoito  and Povety for other coutry g-ops are pa atio-eeightd geetric  mesm  withut ecluion of the eatr-  niae   a
the met poplated .-ntry.  Si-c  the co-Sre    Of co-tria  meg the indicators depands on ae=fa iiy.of dt   a   satoioe   ato    oth   nc
in rlatins sr Oeof  -n  bindictor to enother.  Those arsege  ar  mostly -efol. -  approltis    f 'setd    Ie    hncmaigthevlesa
imdiaatr at a time sang the oostr  sad -refernc  grops.
Id    ik(thosssd sqm.)kcest  RoeaPeosa(ecn  o   ooais)D-ttoii uran                                                                                                      pa]
W    Total, suface oxe  -oarisiog isad  -e  sad Salad eaters,tue  of pepl  (toal  u s,en   rua)sRve  byearaadipa ae
107Tlt-1ur   -  te.t recet estiate of ngi.xtr                     ,ree   sd t-pOrsily        p-r..atuges of their  -epective pouations. Poreta disposal w y a
Or peemeetly for crops, pasture,  -aket sad kitchen gardens or to                         the cfletion  an  disposal, cith or  ithet treat-et, Of   a~ merenta
lIe fallen                                                                                 nd cate-eater by eater-born   syst-  or the as  Of pit privie              Sutlarjj
GmP pn CAPITA (US$) - lisP per .spita estiate  at euoret maket price,                       P4ne.~5n   Pojeotioc dicided by maker Of pametiela flmieime
CiIboIt.d  bysm   covrinmthod as World Bak Atlas (1976-78 bent);                             p~Ifittitbyamedol school at university leve.
i960, 190 , ad 1978 data.                                                                 Poslation Per fring Person - Population divided by  .ber Of practicing  msl.
ccpcspsi Pip    hA  -  nul~ cnupIon of   -,erill ea-rw                               s-d feale ge-hsts nors, pratical srs,mod ssistmetaes
lignite   cnn   atural gas ad hydra-, nuest and gr-                   PH.otio Py O         apieBndi -  toltal.rkb. end  -ual    Po ai (total, urban
1970, sad 1976 data.                                                                        pblic and private ge-rI sod epeialoe    ostpital sod reabilitation eaters.
Hoepit.l   e   sslsa sprnoly  staffd by at least on  Aeiois-
PPUlIjATIiON ANID VITAL STATISTICS                                                            gatablieh-ts providing primeipally custodial coe-r  met included, ?eal
T..   =      ti, dY     (.illlooo..    As of July 1; 1960, 1970, sad                        hospitli, hoemr,  -laude health and medical centers act permnetly stafed
19,77 dta                                                                                 by a physicia  (hot by a medical asaiotsat, ours, midwife, etc.)  lhea faor
irtos icsulatioo  'P-,cet of total) - batio of urba  to total poiolatto;                    io-patiet socadatico  en  ProIde a limited rage of medical facilitie..
differet  cfilta    ourban  reo mey affect comarbility of data                         Admisi2a  pe .          a  bed - Total oahr of odaisicas to Or discharge  fra
ometg co-trirso lb17, i970, end 1975 data..                                                 piij dai,i{       Kyhroe.r of bedu.
PpuI.ntiotoio.yea2000 - fucet popoatiop prjeottoo  ore ba-d 00                        HOUSING
T!tF6 Ii-o  by sge and sec sad tbr:.r mctality sod fertility                A-ereg  Soe of H"T  ;shod (person  per h-sboid ) -  ttal. Mre_  sad  rural -
catec  ProJection perant-r  for  -ctaity r,otee comrise of three                        A house`hold co-ist  of a grop ofiodictdals' whmhr                ig quarer  ad
lecelo ooaoniog life enpet-ny at birthib --cenig ciii country a                         their  _i. meals.  A boarder or lodge   ny or may oct he inclded k  the
per capia jocoselevel, ed P esni  life copec~tony steiilioiog  t                 ho_oehod for statistical P-rP.ses.
P7.5 bpeaco5l.mc poroueo  o  feltilty roto nc ihor thre  levels                      Arr- utro   ee                e   os-ttl   ra,sd rural - Average member
asooiog dv11lioco  fcrtolitu. accoding ic Ioca  lent and past                           of person  perr       in al urban  sadtrural occpied cnnninldeelisga,
feell  cloIng perfor-en E. ah coutry is thea assignd on  of these                       repectively.  DNe11iogs e-elud  OO-pecenet  truture  and unccpied purs.
sine cobtoiosa of   ctolity sod fertility treads forwprjetioc                        Access to plotriel.ty (pret of dwliiss  - ttal  uran  anrra  -  Co-
-po--so                                                                                 cetoo   clig    ith eletriciy  i  living qtetesa  p                   otage of
ototiocory oorlotioo-I   n  tationary popu.into   there iaoo.grcatb              total, urban, sd roylr.  dweLlings repectivel.Y
sioe te lrtirot  s  vquo  to the death rote, and also the age
struc1ture ocem11Io  Iontact.  T is :s neutevd ooly after ferility rates           ilDoATIOi5
decje  toth  celavoet  eve  o  uit ot reprodutioo rate, ebah..ie    nalathtc
colZoigvr-tiooc~fooc  c              iov   torlf ecatip.  The stationar  pops-          Pre fshoIo- total, mole and fernIe-iOros   total, maean   eal .ioi
Iltiooclioe. .c..toentcd 00tic boom  of tho projected chbraterotios                       met Ifal geo at the Primerlel as peuotege  of respective pr-soy
of tic pop,,atioc in tie year 2000, and the rote 0f decline of frtilitty                  schol-age popultiots; normely toolodes chiidreo aged 6-li1pysro but
rotc to cplooccent Ic .                                                             djueted for diffec-t 1engtho of prisory educotico; for o--trico oiti
Prr   totioco   -I ooltlo  is crociod - Tie Yvar  ica otnti-aor  PopulAtio              uiversa   edctioerolet myece   0   eoa   ic   occri
cio- hou b-ec -ovi.                                                                       are ilo_ or  bov  tic officil acheol age.
osonitlooy                                                                         Secondar  scoI - total, mee and female - Computed so - `00r  cronor
Pr-y Ie    ld-ys  poyition Per-  qonrc koloet-e (100 heotaree) of                  ed-otio  require  at lcaot fou  years  f approvd primar  ietrciou:
otnt. nrnp-oides ge-era  vctiona.l, or tes-e  troin                                                                                               iostructioo  for ispels
Per eq. ho.  9ri-oltorul 1ood - Coopotcd o-  bhoc  for agiutua ad                           uoiyf12to 17 yeaso s..             ; orepocdencoraoncgrro
Poulntioour trcour  ( -cct) - Childrc   (0-14 per)y                srigs..o.tos   nrlmn                                  )prettfccoondsc) -ootoi  oloinoinclude
(15-6kycnro(, no     tvircd(65 pcoco tad over) aspoetgso   ddya                            ehio,loutit   roh pprorom   dut oerte  eeedel   ra
popolntloo; ivil, 1'970, odd 1977 into.                                                     deportmeot  of seoau-yicttio .
co-oLutio  iro-th Rtot  (Perornt) - total - A.-oI g-oth rates of total ald-                 Pupil-t-aher rati. - primay   o  secndI          y-fotal etodooto raro  ln  J.
yer_ poqulatioo. for 176-hi, 19b0-li, und 1970-77.                                          prienry and -scodary levels diviIded byuie_ fteah-er  io the  oe
concotto  icooth Rnte (orroct) - urban - doo-eI Kr-th rate  of uctu                           apodiag "irne
popolutioc  for 190-hi, l960-70, nod 1970-75.                                             idoItlsitlrcoo   rate  (plro-t  - iit-rte ado1to  (oblr to crud and rite)a
frode  Koth Rnte c  thountd) -   .dlsjl 11cr birthe  prr tiousod of aid-                         p,or-ctooc of tota1l nilt popu.i-co  aged  5 yeare acd over.
yerpplto ;6i   , 1970, nd 1977 dutb.
Crude toth onte (per throond )- Aroccd.1 lonthc Pvsoono th -            o -yea         fCONSUMPTION
Popo,latio.;bt;  l, 19170, cod 1977 iota.                                               to-eo- foro  err  lothued popolatio,t) - Poo.eager oar  copriur ectorar
Orooc  Osrooolon       tc -ioco   tooler of duo0htooo 0   -00  cill Iar                     OOtic --o  thto  vigil prr,t; coo,lden sbaicanro, hease  sad siiitry
1.h.   ... occu   -prodooti- poroo'd of tic P- r      _orocr  preo  t"ohevio Ice.
op-olfo frtcli*ty -ut-t; -u-oo lp fioc-pyor noertort etdtg It i9d0i                    Ono'o Rleceovo epro  icen  oclaio   - All syppea  f reteices for radio
0979, nod 1075.                                                                           brodonoto t  groerol poblio  Per thoocd of ppiclotien;  -oicodro unIcese
PolPinocog- doct-re  do-o   (th-osusl)   A ..eoel cuoir  of                               rr  lsr   -.utroc- nod onpeorel sire regietrtiOt ofraisesot
pinonocg  lrgec                                                                            bolithrd lior..oug.
coolly clooiog -  sCro (perooctf eurird soas) - P               tocoge  of nurrod         TV Ocococ- jprr thouctd popluw it-I   7  roioce  orirudat t   sea
o71f  hbild-icoilto oge (1-i peyaro(~h obot    thic     t-o ri cr00-                 pbuil  pro thosodi popuitioco - coldrTVioeod                 r-virer  iccutrIe
to   i    -arIedoct   lt0000Or  drOp.                                                     nod on pynr- cOergcrto             f TVcc s.t  -o  oceffeoc 
Oroccpce  fIrTlto         roIcsn p,at                - SIoco the  crg    iuito
cOOD AND5 NUTRfITIONJ                                                                         ofitygorlitrscoonc      rio                           cprtdica  p,bli-tico
Inv   f  olPr-do-toc pro Capita (1969-71-10) - Ildvo of pro  0b.Pt                   dccoted pr-ooily so rroodog ge.er. Iecco.  It io oo-siderd to hr 'daily'
Vcc  nod  ~~ct o          yello oo  Onci.  Connotlotc   -o-r pri-to   goode             finenoo,t  erdo             r  Cupoto       Y- do  - b.ecd oo tic o-nhc  of tickete
r..cffeot  sruc            roide.  Aggregate prodootio- of eol  -oty                 onot,
00 -lod   -cctio-nl oo-rog  Prodoc   pcoc s-ights,
cc   nis   cpi   fcoooc   roceo   esorrementl - Cocpotrd froc                         LAB,c)o FDPPE
-srgpeqoocoicct ..f set food eoPPlooc  socili   i -ottly per -pit.                    ctol Loioo Fco-     tcooe-Icoc lptto    eec,   ride   re
prolop.  ioliccpplc  -oeri-c Ic-rtc  pr-d-t-or  onporso Iro                           foCco cd  -ocplopod bot oo,Ood:r.g hccoo,oovto, et                    lSfitittct
qostisrs  oedon  eolProrecg,  do 1o ic idictcoce   cor-                        PuOroc)-OcorSl,0c00    econro>tel. inioc frc.
-eccoercrtiootdl ip FAO taco1  - phyipoi,,gci  credo'l   forecuol                             Lalocb or  fc lrico, foc-try, hotio, end
octocity ocd hv-lti tociorrIop  -c-o  occtl t-sp-rt-rr, -o              i eghto,        fosboeg no protige of -teo1 1o1c- f-cr.
ageo _icoodotrlliboti   -.0 popoloicc, odd oi1lroo.g 10 pcr-ro  for             lEduor)prcos  - L.', r f--o 00 cTod-g,  cct-trc -.c, cesfoturing sad
onseaticorol Sool oco1-ctp, VoTcrno  gt  o                                                                                 g "clsocc  obloc  tot.-
Pe  - cpit. -oppl  of orcto-  dgrool per ds) - Protc-  cc toot `.r P"                   Par-ptiocac  cute  c-es  - toZ~to         = el,,"to  f-olr . Pa-t_irtiono
-npitusest.-pply of fool per lop. Nct -pplp of food - dtOfi-d us                        octocis   _teco ore c..opod   to,coral, moe,cd frnIc Illr forte as Per
ai .ReqoorceceIe for ol coctret etenblichrd by USDA pr--d, for u                     -oacr. cc s,,en, ..lJ nod f"-u' popoloc, e  f llg noc  rcIcIticlp,
cocivt ulcococ  01,i) Ico  of tocc1 P-ctro   Prr Ito nod 20 grun  of              lull, 1900, scc 0975  oo.-   Th-00c liii part  c.pnsoratereletcc
nolaninod pit  potect  of uioo  1i g-no  ohood br  oinal pcotec.                 od c   t-rt-or  of -too  poolttce., oOb           oe  tred.  A f-c -otit-e
27 9-oc  of coiol protrit s           - n   rog  fc, the soci, proposed ty PAl)       Ecoocolo Irpeodoccy Rnic, - lot, ccj-f   clt-cc  coder i  nod b5 nod 05cr so
on-ic Pu-n  Wcold Proc Ococcp.                                                         ci. isico  foro  Is   , gr...p of il-c 4   ars
Per _apota ooteio s_p.O  Pro  noial nod color - P-otcccoopply of fo-d
ilec-ld foot u-imo1  arc poloec ic g-on  plr my.                                     INCOME DISfclOJTtlN
fod (ag-o 1-41 ectslity Rott  (pro tihootod  -A.o... dcati  Per to-oud                 p-ror.sn-  oTf Pirlonb 1- IocLcshidc  -_o nod rood) - Ococi-d by ri,ihot
on nor crocI 1-I j--t t. c hiold-r  or. sthi Ic  croc-P: for cot dc...l-                    pecocot, rticos- 21 p-rc-t, po-,rros 2t0 pvroct, tad poc-rt 40 percent
opi,ooccetrir-  cost d-ob-d foot li7o   tI"ro                                             f1 hco-cbdlo
HEALTf                                                                                    PO20010Y 7T00Sf lSPOO'
life EoprooopO  tirl   (orno.- 'vrrno "enhr f po-r  of icfe                                 toorlioooPcoc  fooct.  on   0$ P"c caPito  - unto uo coral -
reodicig at icsio  177. 1971  001 r77. dloin.                                   Aoslr t,ccr..crrtp  mlecco   1ooS  occlt -oce  bo-l bllco  hlio  o m-coal
lof:tas  Ito lcty -,-e (Pcr thioc..cd) - Ao.on leudltic of i-tfot  ood-  -o ot-,cti-lo' odeqoao   -' 'l, ros-teco   co-food coqor-cctt  t  o
cor  f c-  -c   --ooad 10cr Ic-tic                                                        afforcoci
Acos  ic lpfe Wntr  peocec  po-           loo    -  oo       r,sd ...mb. -                Eosibctld Orloso or Ib-tyo Socce    lico  (119S 00, curtLs_a) -_orn   nd cora  -
cole  of ppic  total  con,ndcrl   io.eoeleoro  so-1t,cOt-c  11--0y  --00c  irn                                                     sorco    fccc            per -aP, to
-toartPplyp~i-oidoccctct u-f-oc'-t-rooroctorlctdl U-oscha.occ-c cfccro.ctcboolocrocofce                                                              -cconil-c
o -ottonoetd otoro c-h asct fro  pr-se-tl borcilec, epo itee                            rict. nojooctee  VTc clirh- c-t .0 llic, 10 -ra   trt
to ninpclo    tp-ertslre  of stoic  ectprticc popointice. To                       icntlPpitooPlobclte Poorro   10,ccIccl Irre-t) - olno and
noob  cpoblIc fo-to,,, or octr-bc  I-osd eve c-r  roa                             coa  .Ooc_r_ .o  r.rlat -o rOo  arc co -a ol  or   aicoloe poor"
209 otocs Pro  a h-cc  rooy bc c-oid ...d 00 iboco ishjc  ccOoo-ai
or cOot i            -oe.do  ood oeo   reto -te   o  ..to. Idoply
oboe tie ihcrfe or eccir  of sic ihoriolhld do not h-oc to epredl uEccol  nd looal Iota D-oiio
diopoopootlcos  10 p    .tf tie ldp it feschig tic  fuly 5 cater credo                                                     Occn-ccc ionlptconod Pecj-vtiots Departeot
A _ut 1979



- 22 -
ATTACUNN  I
Page 4
(Amunts in -'llions of 17.S. dla
Actual                      P                    1970-  1975       1979 _91975    1978    a83
1975    1.977    1978        1979    l98O    198        1974    1978      1983
NATIONAL ACCOIITB
3-Year Average at 19  - 19   PriceS & Rach nge REtee      Avereg Annual Grovth Rates         As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product          4,501    4,775    4,885      5,118     5,349    6,13      -O.     Z.8       4.               UU5 100.    0 .oU   1oW.4
Gains from Term  of Trade (+)     -23        20        0       -12        -5      -25       -                -                0.5        0     0.4
GroSS Domestic Inone            4                            575  5   5, I      6,10-6    -0.7    2.8       4.6             lO rS    T=b  !
Import (incl. IFS)                 738      878      940     1,049     1.112    1,266     -0.5    8.4       4.8              16.5     19.2   20.7
Exports   " (irDort capacity)    577        829      926       942     1.000    1.205     -2.2   17.0       6.3              12.9     18.9    19.7
Resource Gap                       161       49    'T4       I7          1f        61                                                        - - b
Consuption Expenditures          3,992    3,907    4,044     4,217     4,350    4,937       -     0.5       4.0              89.2     82.7   80.9
Investent   "  (inel. stocks)    645        897      855       996     1.106    1.230     -3.8    9.8       5.4              14.4     17.6   20.1
Domestic Saviz2gs                  484      848      841       889       994    1,169     -6.6   20.5       7.0              10.8     17.3   20.2
1ational Bavings                   419      781      770       815       918    1,083     -6.5   22.5       7.3               9.4     15.8   18.8
MERCHANDISE TRADE                         Annual Data at Current Prices                                                      As Percent of Total
Tnports
Capital gooda                   70.9    220.9    96.0    162.9    196.3   262.3    -9.9   10.t    12.6                                      17.1
Intermediate goods (Lfuefu)  248.3   324.9   350.0    406.7    456.9   648.1             21.5   12.1     12.3              45.3     46.1    42.0
Puels end related mterials    184.3   209.5   230.0    326.0    356.0   471.5            44.7    7.6      9.7              33.6    30.3   30.6
Co,zton. toods                  45.2     74.1    84.0    105.9    115.8   159.7          20.1  22.7    10.8                 8.2     11.0   10.4
reh.Vworts  ecif)    7ZM   .  4       no       t      1,125.0 I--b .6      20.7   11.5      11.4
Exports
PrimsrY producte (l. fuels)  263.4    359.1   366.1        448.6    514.4   747.3        12.0  11.6    13.6                68.6     53.4   55.8
Manulactuured goods         120.4   248.4   320.0        358.6    394.5    591.9      28.4   38.5    13.4               31.4    46.6    44.2
fot 1 Bercor   (fob)    383.8    60.5   6161               87rT      OM9                 14.2  21.3      13.5             1o Io            TD
Tourim snd d4r' Trace
Merchandise Trade Indices                   Average 19  -     100
Export Price Index             80.2      95.4   100        114.3    122.0   166.0       22.5    7.6       9.8
Import Price Index             80.7    94.8   100          115.5    122.0   165.6    24.4    7.4          9.4
Terms of Trade Index           Y9.4   100.6   100           98.9    100.0   100.2       -1.5     -        0.4
Exports Vol    Index           69.7      92.7   100        102.9    108.6   153.3       -6.5   12.8    10.5
VAAE AIED BY SECTOR              Annual Data at 19  -   Prices and Exechge RLtes            Average Annual Growth Rates      As Percent of Total
Agriculture                   625       635      607       625       643      724       -1.9  -1.0        3.7              15.6     13.9    13.2
Industry and Mining         1.168    1.288    1,361      1,456     1,543    1,838         -     5.       6.0               29.0    31.2    33.6
Bervice                     2 =      2.339    2.3J      2,.48      2 a85   .212          0.2    2.4      4.0               55.4     54.9    53.2
.otal-                      4,021    4,262    4,361      4.570     4,775    5,474       -0.2    2.8      T                10O0.0   100.0  1O0.0
lUiLIC pmDUCE ( in constant US$)                                                                                             As Percent of GDP
(Central Goverrnent)
Current Receipts              527      716      723        768       802      944              11.1      5.3              11.7    14.8   15.4
Current &renditurea           563      668      669       676        701      803               5.9      4.4               12.5     13.7   13.1
ary savings             -36       48       54        92        101      141                -        -               -0.8       1.1     2.3
Other Public Sector             5      -19       24         31        48       92                -        -                0.1      0.5      1.5
Public Sector Investment      176      215      186       235        262      368               1.8    11.9                3.9       3.8     6.0
US $ miLion
CURRENT EX1PDITURE DETAIIS                  Actual       Prelim.   Est.   Proj.         DETAIL ON                            At end 19   P end ER
As % Total Current Expend.)           19      19        19        19      19          PUBLIC SECTOR                    First Plan    % of Tptal
Education                                                                             7UiVESTMENT PROORAM                (19   /    - 19   /
Other Social Services                                                                 Social Sectors
Agriculture                                                                           Agriculture
Other Economic Services                                                               Industry and Mining
Administration and Defense                                                            Pover
Other                                                                                 Transport and conmnications
Total Current Expenditures                                                            Other
Total Expenditures
SElECTED INDICATORS                             1960-    1965-   1970-  1975            FINAMIWJ
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)          1965      1970     1975   1980
Average ICOR                                    I9          7F      TIT    r72             Public Sector Savings
Import Elasticity                               -6.40     6.57    -0.08    0.95            Program aid counterpart
M&rginal Dmmestic Savings Rate                   0.14    -0.14     0.19    0.27           Foreign Project Aid
Marginal National Savings Rate                   0.04    -0.17     0.16    0.26            Total Financing
IAEO  FORCE ANr                             Total Labor Force                               Value Added Per Worker (1Q75       Prices & Exc. Rates)
OU17JT PER WOREMP               In Millions        5 of Total          193 - 75         In U.S.Dollars     Percent of Bvertge       1963 - 75
1963       1975    1963      1975     Grovth Rate        1963       1975       1963      1975      Growth Rate
Agricult-re                   0.18       0.21    17.9      19.8          1.3            2,366     1,762      0.79      0.60        -2.2
Industry                      0.26       0.31    25.7      29.0         1.5             3,519     3,439      1.18      1.16        -0.2
Service                       0.56       0.55    56.4      51.2        -0.2             2,932     3,143      0.98      1.06         0.6
Total                                       7   i=    10                9               2T3          I7   I               0         01
not applicable         n ail or negligible
n aot available        -- less thaen half the
smallest unit shown



BALAN   OF PA3IrnS5 1XTINAL ASSBITAIE  AND 1
-am -unte in millimns of U.S. dolara it current prlces)
kvg. Anunal
ActualI                        EStimated                                  9ProJected               Growth Rate
1975 _            Jl,ct  97a         1978          1979         1981                     1992 ctC 3                 1978-1983
SUMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                     550.8       696.2       871.1        926.1         1,167.5    1216.5         1353.9      1538.7       1762.2             13.7
Xaports (incl. NFS)                    676.0        705.1       907.1        940.0         1,206.3    1351.9         1503.3      1672.7       1851.2             14.5
esource Balance  X.-M)                 -125.2        -8.9       -36.0        -13.9            -38.8    -135.4        -149.4      -134.0        -89.0              --
Interest (net)                         -47.2        -57.2       -56.1        -58.0           -66.9      -72.4         -80.1       -90.0        -98.2             11.1
-24.0       -15.2       -11.7        -20.0           -22.0      -24.2         -25.8       -28.2        -31.1              9.2
Current Transfers (ret)                   6.9         7.7         6.6          7.0              7.7       8.5           9.3         10.2        11.3             10.1
Balance on Current Accounts           -11-         --7'T        :*r7:        -84.9        -!15         -223.5        -246.0      -242.0       -207.0              -
pri4 Vat.                                16.3       104.4       239.5        215.5            189.3      146.8        145.0        129.4       110.2            -12.5
Official Capital Grants                   5.0         5.0
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                         284.6       224.1       198.7        416.0            149.8      155.9        192.8        213.7       233.8              -
-Repayments                           181.9       -148.3      -186.9       -365.6            55.2      -55.0         -66.6       -72.8       -107.2              -
Net Disbursesents                       102.7        75.8        11.8         50.4            94.6      101 0         126.2        140.9       126.6             20.0
Changes in reserves (- - increase)      65.5       -111.6      -154.1       -181.0           -163.9      -24.3        -25.2        -28.3       -29.8
ctuR l                    Zeti_ti d
l972   ~L9 76       l            1978               1
GAc Debt Out. & Dtsburied                616.5      692.3     708.1        765.8
CRANT ANO LOAN4 CX)lIthrENTS
Diterest an Public Debt                 46.2      57.3       57.8         60.4
Repayments an Public Debt              181.9      148.3     186.9        365.6
public M&UT Loans                                                                                          Total Public Debt Service              228.1      205.6     244.7        426.0
IBRD                                  52.0          -           -           9.7
IDA
Other Multilateral                    60.1          -          15.0        29.7                        Burden on Export lrd0 ng
Governments                           20.1         25.2         -
Suppliers                             27.2          39          1.6          5.3                         Pabc Debt Service                       41.4'      29.5      28.1        46.0
Financial Inatitutions               249.4        226.6        83.6       214.9
Bonds                                111.8        35.0        130.0       135.0                         TD9+Direct Drect. Dc.                    45.8      31.7       29.4        48.1
Public Loans n.e.i.                    -           -            -            :
Total Public  M= oans                  520.6       290.7        230.2       394.6                       Average Teas of Publc Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1978                     bit. a  % Prior Yar DO&D                  8.9       9.3        8.3         8.5
gXT__AI___ 1                                      eb daed OnlZ              Percent                         kaort. as S Prior Twr DD&D               35.2       24.0      27.0        51.6
110rld Igark                                        73.7                    9.6
IDA   B a                                                                                               IMD 9ebt Out. & Disbursed                  69.4      79.2       75.6        73.7
Other liltilateral                                  71.6                     9.3                          n  em % Public Debt O&D                  11.2       11.4      10.7          9.6
Governments                                       110.0                    14.4                           "  as % Public Debt Service               4.9       5.8        5.6         3.2
Suppliers                                          33.2                     4.3
Financial Institutions                             198.3                   25.9
Bonds270.35
Public Bebts n.e.i                                279.0.                   36.5
Total Public  &LT Debt                             765.8                  100.0
S '4
not applicable                                                   e  stear estimte
not available                                                    -  nil or negligible
...  not available separately                                        --  le.e than half the
but included in total                                               amalleet umit shown



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of September 30, 1979)
(US$ million)
Amount
Loan                                                             (less cancellations)
No.      Year      Borrower               Purpose                Bank   Undisbursed
Eleven loans fully disbursed                                     155.1         -
1166      1975    Rep. Oriental         Fifth Livestock
del Uruguay          Development             17.0       2.3
1176      1975    Rep. Oriental         Industrial Development
del Uruguay          and Export Expansion  20.8         6.6
1594      1978    Rep. Oriental         Vocational Training and
del Uruguay          Technological
Development             9.7        9.7
1689 1/   1979    Rep. Oriental         Second Highway
del Uruguay                                  26.5      26.5
Total (net of cancellations)                  229.1      45.1
of which has been repaid                    108.6
Total now outstanding                         120.5
Amount sold                   4.7
of which has been repaid    3.3               1.4
Total now held by Bank                        119.1
Total undisbursed                                         45.1
I/   Not yet effective.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - October 31, 1979
Type of             (Amount in US$ million)
Year      Obligor                        business             Loan   Equity    Total
1976      Fabrica Uruguaya de         Motorvehicles           3.80        -       3.80
Neumaticos                  and acessories
1979      Acodike Supergas S.A.       Chemicals and            .95        -        .95
petrochemicals
1979      Astra Pesquerias
Uruguayas S.A.           Food processing         4.50       0.9      5.40
Total gross commitments                            9.25       0.9    10.15
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             0.24        -       0.24
Net held by IFC                                    9.01       0.9      9.91
Total undisbursed                                  4.77       0.9      5.67
C.   Projects in Execution
Loan No. 1166-UR Fifth Livestock Development, US$17.0 million, October 15, 1975;
(Date of Effectiveness: February 13, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1980).
Project disbursements are more than 15 months behind appraisal forecasts.
As of September 30, 1979, actual disbursements amounted to only US$14.7 million,
compared to the US$17 million projected at appraisal. However, the Government
has issued a series of policy measures since August 1978 that have drastically
improved the heretofore unfavorable relationship between prices of inputs and
outputs in the livestock sub-sector and the Government expects that the improved
investment climate will result in a disbursement of most of the balance available
from the loan (about US$2.3 million) by the end of 1979.
Loan No. 1176      Industrial Development and Export Expansion Project:  US$20.8;
December 4, 1975; (Date of Effectiveness: April 8, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Project implemeatation remains slow. Faster commitments and disburse-
ments, however, can be expected due to: (i) recently higher interest rate of
competitive credit lines, especially eurodollar loans, (ii) new legislaton
that will speed up obtention of fiscal incentives, and (iii) a larger pipeline
of export subprojects (US$9.9 million as of November 14, 1978). The administra-
tion of the project, on the other hand, has become weaker due to continuous
loss of operational independence of the appraisal and supervision unit under
the project. The Bank has notified the government of the need to find an
institutional solution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan No. 1594      Vocational Training and Technological Development:  US$9.7
million; June 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: April 27,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Satisfactory progress is being made in project implementation.
Loan No. 1689      Second Highways:  US$26.5 million:  June 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
This loan has not yet become effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to Prepare Project: 13 months
(b) Preparation by: Government with UNDP technical assistance
(with the Bank as executing agency)
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: September 1977
(d) First Bank Mission: April 1978
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: May 1979
(f) Negotiations: November 5 to 14, 1979
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementing Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions of the Bank Loan
(a)  The adoption by ANP of a new, cost-based, port tariff system,
acceptable to the Bank, which would eliminate all tariff exemp-
tions (paragraph 49).
(b) Enactment of a decree granting ANP the necessary authorization
from government agencies to carry out all procurement for the project
(paragraph 59).
(c) ANP would not modi:Ey the 1978-1982 development program for the Port
of Montevideo without prior Bank agreement (paragraph 38).
(d) The Planning and Project Implementation Units would be fully staffed
by May 1, 1980 (paragraph 46).
(e) By January 1, 1981 ANP and the Bank would agree on a program of selective
salary increases for ANP (paragraph 46).



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) By January 1, 1981, ANP and the Bank would agree on a plan for
an overall staff reduction aimed at diminishing ANP's personnel
to about 4,500 employees by December 31, 1983 (paragraph 46).
(g) ANP will not incur any additional debt, beyond that already
arranged, unless net cash generation for the preceeding
12 months is at least 1.75 times the maximum total debt
service requirements for any succeding fiscal year (paragraph 50).



I BRD  14369R
SEPTEMBER 1979
fOVTH ,AMERIC                                                                                                      IIA
,  r   8RAZ,i  /          The=wRlhSr_lsufntansitlt                                            flURUGUAY
dRUGLAY j' *_FAN v                     oi*64$v2^                                                                                       MONTEVIDEO  PORT  PROJECT
AIRES        OTEIE
.~~~~~~~o  C)\ onstrrc tionhiR$@boI  
Boilirr,                                                                                                                                                                                            ,' be RemodeledXl 
.. ~~~~~~~~-  - -  ,  -I    I    -tl
197_1982OEV6LOPMENT PROGRAM                                                                   I                                                                                                               r       G                                      27
978-1982 DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM -_                                                                                                                                             -_f S.
LI.hA..  Edge of Ne  Lord- FrI. ANC for C        r Yard                                                                                                                  _- - - ------------
=Corooroer Laood - FillS A9    ERHAR     bl0/ 31l
3     ;X;/<//Ca:SOrrcturoro  to be ReA=odolod or Noe6 Co,oooourion               l orrI                                                                                                                                                                                   4               tT
NoroE. P-     -r
- -- Noorgation' "C"a -n -      AN /b |  R.-                                                                                                                                                                                             NEW
;      7h( HO8AG8  AREA          7*                                                                                                                                       T- 
C.-- L..d                       M FiEl AEA                                                                                   IR  N   N E   R   H    R r   Q R
%                                                                           (M~.ELL DE w:'::':S'E5CA:LA :7';; .  -2   ::I  ;
00=    ot                    ,                                                           -I-=           ' i                                                                                   z.-



