Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   FiLE  COPY
Report No. 2642b-UR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
URUGUAY
December 28, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit           =         Peso (N$)
US$1                    =         N$ 7.30
N$ I                    =         US$0.137
N$1 million             =         US$137,000
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric                            British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)             =         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =          0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)        =          2.20 pounds (lb)
I metric ton (ton)     =          2.205 pounds
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFE          =          Administracion de los Ferrocarriles del Estado
ANCAP        =          Administracion Nacional de Combustibles, Alcohol y Portland
ANP          =          Administracion Nacional de Puertos
CNPA                    C Comision Nacional de Politica Aeronautica
DAC G                   Direccion General de Aviacion Civil
DIGAN        =          Direccion General de Aeropuertos Nacionales
DNT          =          National Directorate of Transportation
DODE         =          Directorate of Economic Development Works
IDB          =          Inter-American Development Bank
LASH         =          Lighter Aboard Ship
MTOP         =          Ministry of Transport and Public Works
PLUNA        =          Primeras Lineas Uruguayas de Navegacion Aerea
SEPLACODI    =          Secretaria de Planificacion, Coordinacion y Difusion
SOECNI      =          Societa Tecnica Internazionale
TAMU         =          Transportes Aereos Militares Uruguayos
TPU          =          Transport Planning Unit
UNDP         =          United Nations Development Programme
USAID        =          US Agency for International Development
Vialidad                National Highway Directorate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
URUGUAY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..................................                     I
A.    Background .......................................                   1
B.    The Transport System ..................          ...1........ 
C.    Transport Planning and Coordination ..............                   4
D.    Past Bank Assistance to the Transport Sector .....                   5
II.    THE PORT SUBSECTOR ......          ..............................          5
A.    Ports and Maritime Transport  ............ .         .........       5
B.    Characteristics and Growth of Traffic ..........            ..       7
C.    The Port of Montevideo  .... .... . . .  ...................... .    8
D.   Port Administration  ...............         ........ ..... .        13
E.   Port Financial Management            ........................        16
F.   Port Development  . ............................... .                17
IIT.    THE PROPOSED PROJECT ..................................                   20
A.    Objectives and Description  ......... ..            ............    20
B.    Cost Estimate and Financing ....             ..................    22
C.    Execution and Procurement                 ........................  22
D.    Disbursements  ..................            ..................    24
E.   Project Monitoring ...................  .         . ..........      24
F.    Environmental Impact .............................    24
G.   Risks ................. 0.........                                  25
IV.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION ............ .. ..... *. .............                25
A.   General ......................................................      25
B.    Forecast of Operational Needs  .................           ...     26
C.    Components of the Project  .....            ...................    26
D.    Development Program .................................. ..          29
E.    Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analysis  ........                30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Uruguay during May 1979.   The mission comprised Messrs. P. Engelmann
(Senior Port Engineer), B. Bostrom and C-H Mumme (Transport Economists),
and A. Stephenson (Financial Analyst). The report has been edited by
Miss V. Foster.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENIS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS   ....................... ............ .               31
A.   Recent Financial Performance of ANP.                                31
B.   Financial Objectives ...........             .      .35
C.   Revenue and Cost Projections .....                                  35
D.   Cash Flow Projections and Project Financing                         37
E.   Sensitivity of Financial Forecasts                                  38
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .38
TABLES
1.1  Maritime Imports and Exports by Major Commodity
Groups (1973-1978)  . .41
2.1  Forecast of Exports through Montevideo Port
(1979-1990) - Minimum and Maximum Estimate.                        42
2.2  Forecast of Imports through Montevideo Port
(1979-1990) - Minimum and Maximum Estimate                         43
2.3  Forecast of Exports through Montevideo Port
(1979-1990) - Best Estimate                   . .44
2.4  Forecast of Imports through Montevideo Port
(1979-1990) - Best Estimate   .                 .45
2.5 ANP - Present Staffing Schedule. .                                         46
2.6  Investment Program of ANP for 1978-1982                    .              47
3.1  Forecast of Dredging Work and Port Conditions (4 pages)    48-51
3.2 Cost Estimate Breakdown (7 pages)   .                   .52-58
3.3  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  ......... ...... .                   59
4.1  Labor Costs of Container and Bulk Cargo Wharf  .               .60
4.2  Economic Analysis of Container and Bulk Cargo Wharf
(2 pages)   ..61-62
4.3 Ship Delay Benefits (2 pages).                                           63-64
4.4  Economic Analysis of New Cranes and Cargo Transfer                        65
4.5  Economic Analysis of Indirect Cargo Transfer                              66
4.6  Economic Analysis of Tug Boats (2 pages).                               67-68
4.7  Costs and Benefits for Cargo Handling                      .              69
4.8  Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests    .                .70
5.1 ANP Income Statement in Pesos    .                     .71
5.2 ANP Income Statement in US Dollars   .                   .72
5.3 ANP Current Tariff Summary    ..73
5.4 ANP Balance Sheets    ..74
5.5 ANP Income Projections    ..75
5.6 Balance Sheet Projections    ..76
5.7  ANP Sources and Applications of Funds Projections                         77
5.8 Ratio Projections    ..78



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  Analysis of Future Port Traffic .......................    79
2.   Proposed Reorganization of ANP ........................    89
3.   Outline of Proposed Technical Assistance to ANP   .......    92
4.   Assumptions on Which Financial Forecasts Are Based  ....    94
5.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File ........................................    97
CHARTS
1.  World Bank 20583 - present Organization of ANP .98
2.   World Bank 20584 - Proposed Organization of ANP              99
3.  World Bank 20585 - Implementation Schedule .100
MAPS
IBRD 14367R - Uruguay Transport System
IBRD 14368R - Bay of Montevideo
IBRD 14369R - Port of Montevideo






I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Background
1.01      Uruguay is a small fertile country with a population of less than
three million. Bordered by the two largest countries in South America,
Argentina on the west and Brazil on the north, and with more than half of its
national boundary consisting of navigable coastline on the south and east,
the country, geographically, is unusually well endowed for the export-oriented
development strategy which it is pursuing. The concentration of Uruguay's
commercial activity and population in the capital of Montevideo is reflected
in the country's transport system. The interior, with relatively flat terrain,
main rivers at boundaries, and low density agricultural production, offered
no obstacles to the development of radial roads and rail networks, extending
north, east and west from the metropolitan region around the seaport of
Montevideo (Map IBRD 14367R). This port, strategically located at the mouth
of the La Plata River, is the country's focal point for foreign trade and
also serves inland and coastal navigation.
1.02      Much of the existing transport system in Uruguay is antiquated and
inadequate for future needs. To define key development issues in the sector,
a comprehensive survey of the national transport system was undertaken with
UNDP assistance in 1976-1978. 1/ This survey established a general framework
for transport investment and identified four areas of highest priority need:
(a) strengthening of national transport planning; (b) improvements in road
rehabilitation and reconstruction; (c) reductions in railroad operations and
deficit; and (d) port modernization.
B.   The Transport System
(i) Ports and Maritime Transport
1.03      Uruguay's foreign trade depends largely on maritime transport, most
of which is served through the port of Montevideo. Public terminal facilities
at this port handled between 1.0 and 1.5 million tons of general and bulk
cargo in recent years (Table 1.1), and Montevideo is expected to continue to
be the focal point for Uruguay's maritime commerce. The port subsector is
discussed in detail in Chapter II.
(ii) Highways
1.04      Roads currently account for about 73% of the total freight traffic
carried within the country (while railroads account for 20% and water transport
for 7%). The road network consists of some 50,000 km, of which 9,800 km are
national roads maintained by the Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTOP).
One-third of the national network is paved, and about 90% of this third lies
in the radial system originating in Montevideo. The remainder of the network,
1/   The Bank acted as UNDP's Executing Agency for the survey, which was
conducted by the consulting firm SOTECNI (Italy).



-2-
40,000 km, consists of secondary and feeder roads largely maintained by the
departments and municipalities. The coverage of the national road network
is adequate; the principal problem is its age and seriously deteriorated
condition, notably on the main international connections, which have consider-
able importance given the country's reliance on trade with its neighbors.
Lack of timely periodic maintenance during a long period of economic stagnation
(1952-1972) has contributed significantly to this deterioration.
1.05      The departmental road network needs expansion mainly in the southwest,
center, north and northwest departments, which are areas with high agricultural
potential. Only 2,000 km (5%) of the departmental network are paved; 4,000 km
are gravel and 34,000 km are earth roads. These departmental roads are of low
standard and poorly maintained and offer restricted serviceability in the rainy
season (August to November). Recently, MTOP's Highway Directorate (Vialidad)
has been helping the departments to improve this situation.
1.06      Traffic growth in Uruguay has been low over the last decade.  High
average vehicle age, deteriorating road conditions, rising fuel prices and
the overall state of the economy have apparently restricted countrywide
growth of traffic to negligible proportions. The trucking industry, domestic
and international, is highly competitive. In the road transport industry,
trucking companies with principally international operations are few, and
they operate truck fleets which are reasonably modern but smaller than the
average for Latin America.  Tnternational freight rates offered by Uruguayan
firms are competitive with those of Argentine and Brazilian operators. The
level of service offered and the capacity of the truck and bus fleet are
broadly adequate for the demand, although the average age of the fleet for
short and medium haul trips is high; the longevity of the truck fleet is
explained by the short distances, mild climate, easy terrain and import
restrictions prevailing in the country. Overloading of vehicles does not
appear to be a serious problem, but a large number of obsolete bridges has
forced Uruguay to limit the maximum weight of trucks to 36 tons, lower than
the limits in Argentina (45 tons) and Brazil (40 tons). A countrywide weight
control program is being operated in an adequate manner.
1.07      The UNDP-financed transport survey (para 1.02) recommended major
investments in the highway sector for the years 1978-1982. Some of these
have already been initiated, in part with Bank support (para 1.18).
(iii) Railways
1.08      Uruguay's railways were owned and operated by a British company
for about 65 years (until 1949). The concession terms promoted construction
of a large network, 3,000 km of standard gauge track, radiating in five lines
from Montevideo (Map IBRD 14367R). The Uruguayan Government constructed roads
parallel to many of the rail lines, and the British company ceased further
investments after 1926. Consequently, the Uruguayan Government purchased an
obsolete railway in 1949. The Administracion de los Ferrocarriles del Estado
(AFE), a semi-autonomous Government agency, was set up in 1952 to operate
the railways. AFE began replacing steam locomotives with diesel-electrics,
but did not improve the obsolete permanent way and equipment. The intervening



- 3 -
27 years have seen a further deterioration in the condition of the railways
through lack of maintenance and replacement investment. Inevitably, the
quality of service has fallen markedly, being reflected in rapidly declining
passenger and freight traffic. Several connections exist with the Argentine
and Brazilian systems, but, in the latter case, because of a difference in
gauges, transshipment is necessary. By 1972, the railways reached, possibly,
their lowest point. Permanent way was completely worn out (61% of the rails
were pre-1920), and ballast was largely nonexistent; rolling stock was obsolete
and diesel-electric locomotives were about 20 years old; communications and
signaling equipment were antiquated. Workshops and maintenance equipment
were obsolete, making repair work inefficient. A recovery plan was drawn
up in 1973 and included purchase of rolling stock and modern workshop equip-
ment. Some rolling stock has been acquired, and a program of mechanical
processing of ballast is in progress.
1.09      Despite its deterioration and significant reductions in traffic,
the railway network still carries 20% of Uruguay's freight and passenger
movements. Principal items of freight are construction materials, rice,
other grains, sugar and fertilizers. However, traffic levels on much of
the rail system are now very low, and the only lines with significant traffic
levels are those from Montevideo to Salto-Artigas, Mercedes and Rio Branco.
A new connection with the Argentine system at Salto has persuaded AFE to
commence construction of a 17-km connection near Mercedes, which would
facilitate through-traffic to Argentina and provide an interconnection to
Paraguay. While the economic merits of this link have not been established,
it is of potential importance for international transit traffic through the
port of Montevideo; this factor is to be analyzed as part of the national
transportation planning activity of MTOP (para 1.16).
1.10      Inefficient managerial and operating procedures of AFE, combined
with the poor physical and largely obsolete condition of the system, resulted
in financial losses which amounted to over US$7 million in 1976. The 1978
transport survey concluded that all rail traffic could be carried more effi-
ciently on roads. However, recognizing that complete closure of the rail
system is a remote possibility, the study recommended a further survey of
limitation of the passenger service to commuter lines near Montevideo and
of freight service to specialized bulk cargoes such as minerals, fuels and
grain.
(iv) Air Transport
1.11      Air transport has developed slowly in Uruguay, principally because
of the concentration of population in the Montevideo area, the country's easy
topography resulting in an abundance of surface transportation and the short
distances involved. Domestic air traffic has increased considerably in
recent years, but the total number of domestic passengers (88,000 in 1978)
remains low. International traffic, mostly related to travel in the River
Plata area, totaled about 495,000 passengers in 1978. Uruguay has only one
main functioning international airport, Carrasco in Montevideo. A military
airport to the north (Durazno) has been upgraded to emergency alternative
status. Maldonado, near the tourist resort of Punta del Este, has only
daylight operations and serves only small aircraft. Commercial airline
operations are dominated by Primeras Lineas Uruguayas de Navegacion Aerea
(PLUNA), a state-owned company. Services to several domestic airports are
provided in cooperation with Transportes Aereos Militares Uruguayos (TAMU).



- 4 -
1.12      Organizations involved in the administration of air transport are:
Direccion General de Aviacion Civil (DAC); Direccion General de Aeropuertos
Nacionales (DIGAN); and Comision Nacional de Politica Aeronautica (CNPA).
The National Defense Ministry controls all these organizations, including
PLUNA. DAC controls air operations, certification and licensing. DIGAN
controls construction, maintenance, operation and administration of airports.
CNPA was created in 1975 under the presidency of the Air Force Commander-in-
Chief and includes the managers of DAC, DIGAN, PLUNA and the Director of
National Transport in MTOP. Its function is to advise the Commander-in-Chief
on national air policy.
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination
1.13      MTOP was created in 1967 and has, in principle, responsibility for
the development of a national transport policy, transport coordination and the
establishment of tariffs for transport services. The Ministry has some nominal
jurisdiction over the investment plans and operational policies and practices
of the modal agencies; however, in practice, their plans and policies are
formulated independently of MTOP. Although AFE is subject to strict regulatory
procedures, its management has been able, to date, to resist pressures to
halt rail investment and scale down operations. The national port administra-
tion formulates its own investment program and decides its operating policies.
Air transport planning and operations are, again, fairly autonomous. The
National Directorate of Transportation (DNT), created in 1975 within MTOP,
provides the formal channel of contact from the operational agencies through
to the Secretaria de Planificacion, Coordinacion y Difusion (SEPLACODI - the
national planning body responsible for Uruguay's social and economic planning
and coordination at the macro level). SEPLACODI prepares the five-year
national plans and is assigned the responsibility for determining sectoral
priorities. DNT provides road transport investment and expenditure proposals
to SEPLACODI, but information on other modes generally comes to SEPLACODI
directly from the responsible agencies.
1.14      Sector management and intermodal coordination have been neglected
in the past. Lack of sectoral coordination has a long history, starting early
this century with the parallel and often competitive development of the then
foreign-owned railway and the national highway network. The almost complete
absence, until the 1978 transport survey, of data on transport costs and
demand has prevented effective efforts in this regard. There was no dis-
cussion of the transport sector in the Five-Year Plan (1973-1977) despite
the allocation of almost 20% of total public sector investment to transport.
1.15      In recognition of this deficiency, the UNDP-financed transport
survey was initiated and used by the Government to establish priority needs
of the transport sector. As mentioned in paragraph 1.02, strengthening of
national transport planning was identified as one of the four highest priority
areas.
1.16      As a first step toward improving transport planning and coordination,
the Conclave 1/ of December 1977 created a Transport Advisory Council which is
1/   A consensus-making meeting of leading civilian and military authorities.



- 5 -
led by DNT and which includes AFE, PLUNA, DIGAN, the National Port Administra-
tion (ANP) and SEPLACODI. This Council is preparing a national transport plan
which is to be based largely on the 1978-1982 investment recommendations of
the UNDP-financed transport survey. A Transport Planning Unit (TPU) of DNT
within MTOP, staffed with counterparts from the transport survey, is presently
assisting the Transport Advisory Council in preparing a national transport
plan. Technical assistance to strengthen this unit is to start in late 1979
with financing under a UNDP grant (US$400,000) and under the Bank's Second
Highway Project (US$200,000). Included in its work program will be the
completion, by mid-1981, of an intermodal comparison study, initiated by the
transport sector survey, which would serve as the basis for coordination of
transport policies and investments.
D.   Past Bank Assistance to the Transport Sector
1.17      Bank Group involvement in the Uruguay transport sector began with a
highway loan in 1963 (Loan 324-UR, US$18.5 million equivalent), which assisted
in financing improvement of Route 5 from the outskirts of Montevideo to the
Brazilian border (500 km); it also included components of highway maintenance
and a highway planning study. The works were satisfactorily completed in 1971,
but five years later than the appraisal estimate; this delay was caused by
incomplete engineering designs, difficulties in obtaining satisfactory bids,
and poor contractor performance. Cost overruns, mainly due to the five-year
delay, were about 14%, but actual traffic data showed an average increase of
about 50% over the appraisal estimate for 1971. 1/
1.18      Following a transport sector review by the Bank in 1974, the
Government obtained UNDP financing to carry out a comprehensive survey of
the national transport system, which was executed by consultants retained
by the Bank (para 1.02 and accompanying footnote). This survey was instru-
mental in identifying the Second Highway Project, approved by the Bank's
Board in June 1979, and the port project under appraisal.
1.19      The Second Highway Project (Loan 1689-UR, US$26.5 million equiva-
lent) will help the Uruguayan Government to reconstruct the most heavily
traveled portion of Route 8, another important link with Brazil; it will
also help to improve long-term programing and executing capacity for road
rehabilitation and reconstruction as well as transport planning and coordi-
nation.
II. THE PORT SUBSECTOR
A.   Ports and Maritime Transport
2.01      Nearly 91% of Uruguay's foreign trade is maritime, and about 70%
of this trade has traditionally been handled through the port of Montevideo.
The predominant role of this port is historical: the sheltered bay was there
first, accessible to the largest vessels operating in the last two centuries,
and the country's inland transportation system grew around it, as did the
metropolitan area of Montevideo city. Major investments in public port
1/   A final supervision report for this project was prepared on September 29,
1972.



- 6 -
installations began in 1905 and continued through 1931; they resulted in the
existing general cargo terminal, with navigational access for vessels of up to
10.0 m draft (1.0 m more than Buenos Aires). The oil refinery of the national
petroleum company (ANCAP) is located within the bay of Montevideo, and, until
recently, the entrance channel and outer harbor of Montevideo were used for
all of Uruguay's crude oil imports, which were handled at the ANCAP berths,
across the bay from the commercial docks (Map IBRD 14368R). This petroleum
traffic, however, has now been moved to a new offshore tanker mooring at Punta
Jose Ignacio (about 145 km east of Montevideo; Map IBRD 14367R). Thus, the
total tonnage entering the port has been substantially reduced starting this
year, but that development should not affect the flow of general cargo, dry
bulk cargo and container traffic, constituting the high-value part of Uruguay's
foreign trade, which will continue to be handled through public terminal
installations at Montevideo.
2.02      There are four secondary ports in Uruguay, located along the
La Plata and Uruguay Rivers where draft limitations range from 9.0 m to
4.5 m: Colonia, Nueva Palmira, Fray Bentos and Paysandu. Traffic through
these ports consists mainly of cereals and construction materials, exported
to Argentina and Brazil. River navigation and coastal shipping for domestic
transport are relatively unimportant in Uruguay, amounting to only 7% of
internal freight movements. Maintenance of river channels (the responsibility
of a separate Department under MTOP, except at Montevideo) is costly, and
the possibilities of economical channel-deepening in the Uruguay River are
limited by very high resiltation rates. While prospects for some transit
movement through the river ports exist (para 2.04 following), the role of
Uruguay's secondary ports in export and import trade is expected to remain
limited. On the southeastern coast of Uruguay, the port of La Paloma is
currently being expanded as a fishery port; while of considerable importance
for the prospective growth of the country's fishery industry, it is not
expected to have a significant impact on the pattern of foreign maritime
trade.
2.03      The merchant fleet of Uruguay consists of about 30 vessels, which
carried about one-fourth of Uruguayan foreign trade in 1975. The gross
registered tonnage of the fleet is 280,000 tons, and the average vessel
size is just over 9,000 tons; however, the latter figure is severely distorted
by the largest vessel, a 120,000-ton tanker owned by ANCAP, without which
the average vessel size reduces to 5,000 tons. Of the total fleet, 10 vessels
are used for ocean trade and the remainder for coastal and river trade. These
vessels are mostly privately owned.
2.04      Uruguay's foreign trade is handled predominantly by foreign-flag
liner services which call at Montevideo on their way to and from Buenos Aires.
This pattern of operation, dictated by the location of Buenos Aires upstream
from Montevideo, takes advantage of the deeper draft available in the access
channel and port of Montevideo (with 10.0 m nominal depth), allowing vessels
to lighten before entering the La Plata River channel (with 9.0 m nominal
depth) and, on return from Buenos Aires, to take on additional cargo, fuel,
water and provisions before starting a trans-Atlantic voyage. The same
pattern of operation is used, to a limited extent, by charter vessels in
the grain trade "topping off" in Montevideo with Uruguayan exports, after



loading first at Rosario, Buenos Aires or other Argentine ports on the Parana
River. Because of this pattern, it has long been the hope of port interests
in Uruguay to develop transit traffic for countries in its hinterland, using
existing inland routes to and from Montevideo, by water, rail or road. In
practice, such traffic has not been significant to date; while both Paraguay
and Bolivia have a small area within the Montevideo port designated as their
"free zone," neither country is using these facilities extensively for
transit traffic.
2.05      Potentially, Uruguay could be a major gateway for the foreign trade
of adjacent countries (Paraguay, northern Argentina, Bolivia and even southern
Brazil) and it is possible that inland traffic, beyond Uruguay's borders,
can be developed to a significant level in coming years; factors that would
favor such development in the near future are the construction of a rail link
to Argentina, over the dam at Salto Grande, and proposed international agree-
ments among the Southern Cone countries that would permit the transfer of
freight across borders in bond, simplifying customs procedures. As a result,
grain movements by unit train from the Rosario/Santa Fe area and containerized
cargo movements to and from industrial centers in adjacent countries could
find the port of Montevideo an attractive transit point.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Traffic
2.06      Uruguay's exports consist largely of agricultural products, with
meat, rice and wool predominating; however, "non-traditional" exports are
becoming increasingly important and consist of manufactured goods such as
shoes, garments and leather accessories. Imports in mixed general cargo are
largely machinery and other manufactured goods and, in dry bulk commodities,
comprise fertilizers and chemicals. The traffic through Montevideo is expected
to grow from 1.5 million tons in 1978 to 1.9 million tons in 1983 and 2.7 mil-
lion tons in 1990 (Annex 1). 1/
2.07      Projections of port traffic for 1979-1990 are given in Tables 2.1,
2.2, 2.3 and 2.4. The basis of traffic forecasts for the port of Montevideo
is discussed in more detail in paragraph 4.02. A summary of historical and
projected total traffic through the port of Montevideo is as follows (in
thousands of metric tons):
1/   This figure includes only Uruguayan imports and exports now handled at
general cargo berths (break-bulk, containers and in bulk); it excludes
petroleum products, handled at a separate facility, and transit traffic.



-8-
ACTUAL
Year         1973      1974      1975      1976     1977      1978
Exports    259.4      330.7    321.4    608.1    473.3    434.7
Imports    807.7      813.2    662.5    677.9    622.8  1,106.8
Total  1,067.1   1,143.9    983.9  1,286.0  1,096.1  1,541.5
FORECAST
Year         1979      1980      1981      1982     1983      1990
Exports       498       522       547       604      665    1,001
Imports    1,045      1,092    1,144    1,197    1,255    1,741
Total    1,543      1,614    1,691    1,801    1,920    2,742
2.08      Relatively little of the general cargo handled through the port
of Montevideo is containerized at present; 1/ there is only one regular
liner service of all-container ships (the LASH 2/ vessels of the Delta Line),
but several other liner services carry part loads of containers, and it is
expected that Montevideo, like other ports in the Southern Cone, will
experience significant increases in cargo movements by containers over the
next ten years. Similarly, much of the bulk cargo moving through the port
is being handled as part loads of general cargo vessels, but the percentage
handled by specialized bulk carriers is already much greater than that of
full container ships, and it is expected that bulk cargo (both imports and
exports) will be handled predominantly by bulk carriers in the near future.
This development will have significant impact on the future needs for terminal
capacity within the port of Montevideo where, at present, no specialized
berthing facilities exist for ocean vessels, all types of general and dry-bulk
cargo (and containers) being handled at any location in the port, depending
on berth availability.
C.   The Port of Montevideo
(i) Location and Terminal Installations
2.09      The port of Montevideo is the deepest sheltered harbor in the
estuary of the La Plata River. The peninsula on which the Old City was
1/   While historical records on cargo moving through Montevideo in
containers are not available, it is estimated that the volume is
on the order of 2%-4% of total tonnage handled.
2/   Lighter Aboard Ship



- 9 -
built provides protection from the open sea to the south for the main
terminal facilities located adjacent to the downtown waterfront. These
facilities are connected to the main inland transport routes of Uruguay
by rail and by road; despite their location in close proximity to the
downtown central business district, there are no major problems of land
access to the port connected with urban traffic problems. The port has
numerous facilities for small vessels in coastal and river trades (having
a draft of up to 5 m) as well as 2,250 m of docking space for ocean vessels
with up to 10 m draft. In the original design of the port, which set 140 m
as the length of the largest vessel in port, this space was considered
adequate for 14 ocean vessel berths; today, with many vessels having
overall lengths of 165 to 175 m, the available docking space is, in effect,
equivalent to only 11 ocean vessel berths.
2.10      Navigational access to the port from the natural 10 m depth 1/
contour in the Atlantic south of the port entrance is via a 200-m wide,
straight channel about 9 km in length. This channel, originally dredged
to a nominal depth of 10 m, leads to the port entrance in the main break-
water and into the outer harbor, where a large anchorage area is available
(Map IBRD 14368R). Within the inner harbor, areas for ocean vessels were
originally dredged to a nominal depth of 10 m and areas for coastal and
river traffic to 5 m. There is also a channel with 9.5 m nominal depth
to the ANCAP terminal.
2.11      Wharf construction at the existing ocean vessel berths consists
of concrete caissons, extending to a depth of about 10.5 m; 1/ spaces between
caissons (8 m clear, in most cases) are spanned by reinforced concrete decks
near the High Water line. Railroad tracks, crane rails and wharf apron
paving rest on about 2 m fill above the decks; the wharf face consists of
a stone masonry wall. There are 11 transit sheds adjacent to berths, of
which two (No. 1 and 2) are three-story, four (No. 6, 7, 8 and 9) are two-story,
and five (No. 3, 4, 5, 10 and 11) are single-story; of the latter, two sheds
(No. 10 and 11) are refrigerated. The total area of covered storage provided
by these sheds is approximately 70,000 m . The port also has a number of
single- Ind multi-story warehouses in upland areas, providing an additional
95,000 m of covered area. Pavement throughout the port consists of cobble-
stones, and all facilities are served by railroad trackage.
2.12      Lifting equipment in the port comprises 49 gantry cranes of 1.2 to
5-ton capacity, a derrick of 200-ton capacity, a floating crane of 60-ton
capacity, and about 50 rail or truck mounted mobile cranes. Most of this
equipment was installed with the original port construction in the 1910s or
1930s. The port also owns and operates five diesel locomotives and about
120 railroad flat-cars and wagons for cargo handling within the port area.
Floating craft permanently operating in the port include four dredges
(para 2.17), 16 tugs, miscellaneous barges and small craft. Most of this
equipment is obsolete and uneconomical to operate because of excessive cost
and down-time for repairs.
1/   All depths are given from Standard Datum, which is about 0.6 m below
Mean Low Water, or about 1.2 m below Mean High Water.



- 10 -
(ii) Cargo and Vessel Operations
2.13      General cargo in the port of Montevideo is handled predominantly
by break-bulk methods (para 2.06), using dock cranes and, increasingly, ships'
gear in combination with dock cranes. Most of the cargo is transferred
directly between vessels and land transport vehicles (trucks or railroad
cars), with only a minor portion going through the transit sheds; these sheds
are used-primarily for long-term storage (a practice which is expected to be
changed as a result of this project), and very little of the cargo in the
sheds is palletized. Some cargo, however, is stored in upland warehouses,
within the port, and, for certain commodities (mostly agricultural exports),
these warehouses actually function as transit storage areas to a greater
extent than the sheds adjacent to berths. With the exception of wool in bales
or rice in bags (for which lift trucks are used), cargo is hand-stacked inside
the transit sheds and warehouses.
2.14      Dry bulk cargo (largely imports) is normally handled by dock
cranes with grab-buckets from ships' holds into portable hoppers which are
positioned on the wharf apron opposite hatches and which are arranged to
allow trucks to load beneath the hoppers in a steady flow of vehicles.
These operations frequently involve a truck waiting line of considerable
length, so that no other cargo operations can take place at the berth
where bulk cargo is being discharged.  In the case of grain imports,
grab-buckets are now usually replaced by portable bulk-flow unloaders
(Buhler's), which are suspended from ship's gear and dock cranes to feed
the hoppers for truck loading.
2.15      The predominant use of dock cranes for general cargo in Montevideo
is a matter. of tradition and practical considerations by both the shipping
lines in regular service to the Southern Cone and the port. The original
port installation was based on French and German operating concepts of
1905, and port labor has been trained to operate with dock cranes. In the
shipping lines' view, stevedoring labor is less efficient with ships' gear
than with dock cranes. However, the utility of the dock cranes has decreased
in recent years for the larger vessels calling at Montevideo (as a result of
their age, their limited reach and lifting capacity, and the low position
of the operator's cab), and a combination of dock cranes and ships' gear has
become the practice; by this method, the ships' gear works between the hatch
and the ships' deck, where the hook is transferred, and dock cranes work
between the apron and the ships' deck. At the multi-story sheds (six of the
existing berths), dock cranes are needed to reach the second or third levels.
At the other berths, which have wider aprons, dock cranes are considered
superior to ships' gear since the cranes can serve several lines of railroad
cars or trucks and have greater flexibility in picking up or landing cargo
at various spots. An argument frequently cited in Uruguay, in support of
continued use of dock cranes, is that other ports in the region use the
same method and that liner services are poorly equipped for ships' gear
operations without help from dock cranes. An analysis of the proposed new
dock cranes (para 4.09) indicates that their purchase and installation are
justified when compared both to the present operations and to the use of
ships' gear without dock cranes.



- 11 -
2.16      The port of Montevideo has a record of no major marine accident in
its harbor basin or access channels since opening of the facilities to traffic
in 1911. Pilot service in the access channel is compulsory and tug assistance
is normally provided for passage through the harbor entrance: in the access
channel, only one vessel operation is permitted at a time. Within the port,
ocean vessel movements between the outer harbor and the terminal berths in
the inner harbor are performed entirely with tug power, under the direction
of harbor pilots; for these movements, a minimum of two tugs is normally
required per vessel operation.
(iii) Channel and Port Maintenance
2.17      About 10 million m3 of deferred maintenance dredging is needed in
the port of Montevideo to bring the access channel and the harbor basin for
ocean vessels to their original design depth (10 m). At present, controlling
depths are about 8.5 m in the port, and about 3 million m3 must be dredged
annually to maintain this depth; annual maintenance dredging is likely to
increase to 4 million m3 after the port is deepened to 10 m. The port has
four dredges, with the following characteristics:
Annual
Average
Production    Estimated Cost
Year       1974-1978      of Production 1/
Name     Type                 Built      (m3 thousands)      US$/m3
D-3    Bucket-chain            1902            76             20.
Steam-driven
D-5    Suction-hopper          1923           791               1.35
Steam-driven
(750 m3)
D-6    Bucket-chain            1949            197              6.15
Steam-driven
D-7    Suction-hopper          1970         2,459               0.69
Diesel-driven
(2,500 m3)
1/   With two-shift operations, normal practice in the port of
Montevideo.
2.18      In view of their high cost and low productivity, dredges D-3 and
D-6 should be retired from service and scrapped as soon as possible. The
age and unreliable performance of dredge D-5 indicate that this dredge should
also be retired in the near future. The D-7 is the only relatively new dredge



- 12 -
currently in the port; it has been operating effectively for the past eight
years, but has never had a major overhaul. Because of necessary repairs,
the D-7 was not operational from December 1978 to November 1979, but it is
now reported to be in good operating condition and should be kept in service.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that ANP would prepare, by July 1,
1980, a retirement schedule for the three older dredges. This program would
provide for the termination of operations and subsequent sale or scrapping of
dredges D-3, D-5, and D-6 no later than nine months after the two new dredges
have commenced operations at Montevideo.
2.19      Floating and land-based equipment of the port is maintained in a
group of shop buildings at the eastern side of the port area, where a small
floating dry-dock is also available. The shops are antiquated, but have the
capacity to perform virtually all types of operations needed for the repair
of mechanical and electrical components of the cranes, tugs, and other equip-
ment operated in the port of Montevideo; they have kept the port running for
the past 38 years with very little input from the outside world. Removal of
the existing maintenance shops from their present buildings to a single,
large warehouse at the northeastern end of the port area is under considera-
tion at present. This move would improve the working environment for
maintenance, but would not overcome some of the other deficiencies of
maintenance operation, which include inadequate supplies of spare parts
and overstaffing in the Maintenance Department; while deficiencies in
maintenance equipment are also known to exist, significant improvements
are expected to be possible in maintenance operations with (a) relocation
of the shops, (b) reductions in shop personnel and (c) improvements in
the spare parts supplies when spares are purchased with the new equipment
in the current development program.
2.20      Facility maintenance in the port is generally at a high level.
Port structures and pavement are almost without exception in good condition,
but utilities, particularly electric power distribution for dock cranes,
are in need of upgrading. Marine structures show no evidence of deterioration
above water, and periodic repairs on the outer breakwater have permitted it
to protect the harbor from significant damage by wave action.
(iv) Agencies Involved in Port Activities
2.21      Private sector agencies involved in commercial port activities at
Montevideo include (a) foreign and domestic shipping lines represented by the
shipping association (CNT), (b) a small private tug operating company and
(c) a stevedoring agency (CASE), which provides stevedores to shipping lines.
Port security, the regulation of marine operations (e.g., manning scales,
work rules), pilot services and navigation aids are the responsibility of
the Uruguayan Coast Guard (Prefectura). The National Customs Service
provides the normal customs functions and controls. All other port opera-
tions, port and channel maintenance, and terminal development in Montevideo
are the responsibility of ANP, discussed in the following paragraphs.



- 13 -
D.   Port Adm'nistration
(i) Legal Status and Powers
2.22      ANP was created in 1916, by law, and charged with responsibility
for essentially all aspects of commercial port operations in Uruguay. The
institution is governed by a three-member board of directors named by the
Government, which designates two of its members as the President and
Vice-President. Although ANP is legally autonomous, it does report to the
Government through the Ministry of Transport and Public Works and is
required to submit its annual budget for approval by the Ministries of
Planning and Finance.
2.23      ANP is responsible for essentially all aspects of commercial
port operations in Uruguay. The range of services provided by ANP
includes tugs, dredging, cargo handling, storage, maintenance of existing
facilities and the planning and execution of works to improve port opera-
tions. While the major focus of ANP's responsibility is the port of
Montevideo, the institution is also responsible for operating th. other
commercial ports in Uruguay (Colonia, Nueva Palmira, Fray Bentos mnd
Paysandu). Investment decisions for these smaller ports are, however,
a responsibility of the General Directorate of Hydrography in MTOP.
In addition, ANP owns and operates some small (under 250 tons) coastal
trade vessels.
(ii) Organization and Management
2.24      Chart 1 shows the current organization of ANP in summary form.
The chart shows that, in spite of the wide range of services handled by ANP
and the large size of the organization (over 6,200 people), responsibility
for day-to-day operations is allocated in a straightforward manner among four
divisions run by the key managers, i.e., a finance manager, an administrative
manager, a technical manager and an operations manager. The largest of these
divisions is operations, which includes nearly 3,000 people and has respon-
sibility for all revenue-generating services in Montevideo and the other
ports, as well as for ANP's marine activities. The technical manager is
responsible for over 1,000 people who maintain and repair existing equipment,
as well as for dredging of the port and for the design and specification of
port-related investments. The administration and financial divisions are
smaller in size, having about 500 and 300 staff respectively. Policy- and
decision-making responsibility lies with the President and the Vice-President
of ANP, both of whom are active full time in these positions. Although the
current President has been in his position for over six years, he and the
Vice-President are from the Uruguayan military service and depend extensively
on a single technical and planning advisor for assistance in technical areas.
2.25      The basic structure of the organization has changed little in
the last ten years, but a substantial reduction in overall staff has occurred,
and, at the same time, the port's operational efficiency has improved. In
particular, the current administration has been successful in eliminating
shipping conference surcharges that had been applied to the Montevideo Port
because of the long ship turnaround tir,es and cargo losses. As a result, the
port's reputation as "Puerto Sucio" has disappeared, pilferage of cargo is no
longer a problem and overall staff was reduced substantially from over 10,000
people in 1970 to 6,213 in 1978 (para 2.26).



- 14 -
2.26      Table 2.5 summarizes the current staffing structure of ANP. 1/
Total staff, including those on non-permanent status, amounted to 6,213 at the
end of 1978, 415 fewer than the positions allowed for in ANP's budget. The
following table shows the staff reductions that have been made over the
last five years.
ANP - Total Staff 1974-1978
1974     1975    1976       1977     1978
Marine Operations          551       510      544       519       428
Cargo Handling          2,614      2,516   2,493    2,450    2,411
Maintenance              1,785     1,736   1,718    1,598    1,563
River Ports                399       382      382       350       320
Shipping                    22        42       42        42        40
Administration           1,783     1,759   1,687    1,675    1,451
Total              7,154      6,945   6,866    6,634    6,213
The overall decrease has been 15%, in a period during which traffic has grown
by 35% and overall working expenses, in real terms, have declined by 37%.
The reductions have generally been achieved through retirement of eligible
staff (people whose age plus years of service equal 100) as well as voluntary
retirements because of low salaries (para 2.27). The number of staff is
still substantial for a port which handled just over 1.5 million tons of
cargo in 1978; the principal reason is that almost all positions in the port
are operated on a two-shift basis, since, as in most public institutions in
Uruguay, the employees work part of the day at a second job in addition to
working at ANP.
2.27      Because of this "two-job" factor, salaries at public institutions
in Uruguay are generally accepted as being lower than salaries paid for
equivalent positions in the private sector. In the case of ANP, however,
for many key positions this discrepancy has become too large, i.e., salaries
offered are not sufficient to attract technical and professional employees of
a type that are in demand in the country. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that selective salary increases would be allowed for ANP staff.
While average salaries per employee have increased by about 600% in local
currency terms since 1974, they have decreased marginally in US dollar terms
1/   Figures in Table 2.5 are given according to job classification; figures
in paragraph 2.24 refer to structural classification and thus differ
from those in Table 2.5.



- 15 -
and by 20% in real terms.  ANP s salaries are lower than those paid by other
Government institutions, ana it nas experienced difficulty in attracting
qualified professional staff. Xt the eid of 1978, for instance, it employed
four engineers, compared wit'li i2 in 1977, and recent efforts to hire more
engineers for the permanent staff have not been successful.
2.28      The current President of ANP is firmly committed to strengthening
the overall institution, and work is being carried out by the Vice-President
with this objective in mind. The main weaknesses in the current organization
are: (a) the lack of any individual with direct responsibility for the
overall day-to-day functionitig of   a port, which results in increased
demands on the President's t,ae nnu decreased integration of the various
port operational functioLs; and (b) ineffective planning and execution of
facilities improvements. This latte- weakness has not been a problem in
recent years because of the very  imited expenditures on new equipment
and the substantial profitabilitv *- ANP. The current investment plan for
1979-1982 is substantial, however, and this aspect of the organization
will have to be strengthened.
(iii)  Proposed Organizational Improvements
2.29      A major objective of the proposed loan is to assist ANP in its
effort to bolster the organization by first improving overall effectiveness of
the planning effort and then building up the technical capability of the
organization so that the substantial facilities improvement program that is
scheduled will, in fact, be carried out promptly and with appropriate controls.
2.30      These improvements should be brought about with a minimum of institu-
tional changes; however, some adjustment will be required, and proposals were
discussed with ANP during appraisal. In the proposed organization (Chart 2),
a new position of General Manager of Montevideo Port will be created. This
person will have responsibility for coordinating all aspects of the day-to-day
operations and management of the port. At the same time, the Technical and
Planning Advisor will, in effect, be replaced by two newly created units - one
with responsibility for overall institutional and physical planning and the
other with responsibility for preparation and implementation of projects in
the investment program.
2.31      Specific details on the organizational objectives for ANP are
included in Annex 2, but concurrent with this institutional strengthening
are objectives for further personnel reductions. During negotiations, targets
were agreed with ANP on the timing and nature of organizational changes, on
overall staff reductions and on personnel levels and skills for the two new
departments. Financial assistance is being provided in the loan to enable ANP
to hire key personnel (local and foreign) to staff these two departments for
an interim period and to train the local staff (Annex 3).



- 16 -
E.   Port Financial Management
(i) Accounting and Auditing
2.32      ANP's current financial management procedures need strengthening.
Although the reporting systems provide sufficient financial information
for effective cost monitoring and control, and are prepared and audited in
accordance with generally accepted practices, the data are not provided
in a form which is really useful for effective management analysis. In
addition, the time needed to prepare usable data is excessive. Under a
previous loan made by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) (para 2.38),
the financial procedures were analyzed, and a report containing a large number
of suggestions for changes was prepared. ANP's financial staff were not,
however, pleased with the extremely long report, felt that the changes would
be difficult to implement and were not convinced that significant improvements
would result. Therefore, they have not implemented the recommendations.
2.33      ANP's audit is currently performed by the "Tribunal de Cuentas," a
public institution responsible for auditing the publicly owned institutions in
Uruguay. The audit reports prepared by the Tribunal are not as extensive as
would normally be prepared by typical private auditing firms, but the Tribunal
has agreed to expand the scope of its analysis in line with requests of the
Bank. The main problem is that audit reports are issued more than 12 months
after the end of each year. These delays seem to arise mainly from the slow
procedures used by ANP to consolidate its financial information; therefore,
the main area for improvement under the proposed project will be improvement
of the speed of data preparation through assistance in the introduction of
improved data processing systems. It was pointed out during appraisal that
audited financial results will be required within six months of the end of
each financial year, and ANP agreed that this was an appropriate objective.
Both ANP and the Tribunal feel that they can meet this target, once financial
data are prepared more efficiently. It was further agreed during negotiations
that, if the Tribunal de Cuentas is not able to comply with this requirement,
private auditors should be appointed.
2.34      Current financial information is prepared on a historical cost
basis which, in view of the rapid inflation occurring in Uruguay, severely
distorts the meaningfulness of the data provided. The cost data are, however,
well segregated among the various operating functions and, for this reason,
the financial staff can carry out the current operating cost study (para 5.05).
To avoid distortions, financial data in the future should reflect current
values, and it was agreed during negotiations that future audit reports
should include financial data prepared on this basis.
(ii) Budgeting and Financial Planning
2.35      The port staff does not prepare any real financial plan, and even
the annual budget that is prepared does not function as a planning document.
Budgets are detailed and well prepared, but do not get issued until late
in the year to which they are supposed to apply. As a result, ANP may well
wait for "approval" for each budget from the appropriate ministries for more
than 12 months after that year is over. In order to increase the importance
of the budget process and as a first step toward meaningful financial planning,



- 17 -
it was agreed during negotiations that a budget officer will be appointed
and that the draft budget will be prepared and furnished to the Bank at least
three months prior to the start of the budget year, until the project is
completed.
2.36      A major factor which impairs ANP's ability to make financial
plans is the current practice under which a number of users of the port
are granted exemptions from port fees on their imports. In recent years,
these exemptions have increased substantially in importance; in 1978,
some 25% of ANP's charges were waived in response to various ministers'
stipulations. This issue is discussed further in paragraph 5.02. The
discontinuance of these exemptions is a condition of effectiveness of the
Loan, and it was agreed during negotiations that the Government will not
grant exemptions from port charges in the future.
F.   Port Development
(i) Earlier Planning Efforts
2.37      Port expansion and improvement were the subjects of various
planning efforts by ANP in the 1950s and 1960s; some of the resulting plans
received formal approval under earlier administrations. The possibility
of major port deepening was considered briefly in the context of a site
selection study sponsored by Argentina in 1972/73. Deepening of the existing
port of Montevideo to 12 m was actually authorized by the Government of
Uruguay about 1974 on the basis of preliminary hydraulic studies by a Dutch
consulting firm; however, none of the wharf structures within the port are
designed for deepening beyond the present nominal depth (10 m), and the
stability of docks could be endangered by dredging alongside unless major
structural changes were made first. Thus, these earlier planning efforts
have not resulted in a development program that could serve as a basis for
action.
2.38      In 1968, IDB made two loans to ANP, in the total amount of
US$11.95 million equivalent 1/, for the acquisition of port equipment;
included in these loans were funds for a study by consultants to determine,
inter alia, the type and amount of equipment to be acquired under the loans.
The study was completed in 1973, but a number of its recommendations were
unacceptable to ANP, and most equipment purchases were delayed as a result.
In 1975, IDB canceled the undisbursed balance of its loan (US$9.55 million).
2.39      The IDB-financed study of the port of Montevideo has no official
status within ANP at present, although part of its findings may have been
used in formulating the ongoing port development program (paras 2.40-2.42).
The experience with this study, however, has left in ANP's management a strong
predisposition against the use of foreign consulting firms (para 2.44).
1/   Loan 170-OC-UR, approved by IDB November 29, 1968, in the amount of
US$11.6 million; and Loan 199-SF-UR, approved by IDB November 29, 1968,
in the amount of US$0.35 million.



- 18 -
(ii) 1978-1982 Development Program
2.40      In mid-1977, a five-year port development program was submitted
by ANP to the Government, with a general description of proposed investments
totaling US$74 million equivalent. This program is focused on improvement
of existing terminal facilities, with primary emphasis on equipment renewal,
upgrading of maintenance and modernization and does not include major expansion,
such as new berth construction. The program was adopted by the Conclave of
1977 (para 1.16) and received official Government approval in early 1978.
2.41      During 1978, ANP awarded four contracts under the approved develop-
ment program, committing about US$16.2 million equivalent, for (a) acquisition
of 14 gantry cranes, (b) construction of a new fishery pier and a new land
area ior container operations, (c) conversion of Shed Number 11 to a modern
refrigerated warehouse, and (d) installation of cooling equipment for the
refrigerated warehouse. A further contract, for the strengthening of dock
structures at six berths, to support the new gantry cranes, is about to be
awarded.
2.42      During preparation and appraisal of this project, the 1978-1982
Development Program of ANP was reviewed in detail and a number of modifica-
tions in the program were agreed with ANP. The original budget estimate
and the revised, current cost estimate for the Development Program are
given in Table 2.6. For reasons explained in paragraphs 4.08-4.10, the
overall composition and scope of the 1978-1982 Development Program, as
modified, are considered satisfactory. During negotiations, confirmation
was received from ANP on the agreed scope and content of the 1978-1982
Development Program.
(iii) Project Preparation and Implementation
2.43      ANP relies heavily on contractors' designs for its project prepara-
tion. For equipment items, general performance specifications are issued,
and manufacturers are encouraged to submit proposals based on their own
equipment standards; for the types of equipment in normal use by ports, this
method is customary and effective in many areas. For civil works items,
however, ANP only prepares sketches giving the overall dimensions and func-
tional criteria for the desired facilities, and the bid invitation requests
contractors to propose on a design-construct basis; the designs are then
reviewed by ANP as part of the bid evaluation, and the contractor must hold
hie bid price firm while modifying the designs in accordance with ANP's
ccmments. This method of contracting for civil works, with which ANP has
only limited experience, is expeditious but hazardous, particularly since
ANP does not obtain adequate information on subsurface conditions at the
construction site to provide to contractors. On the largest civil works
contract awarded under the program to date (for a fishery pier and new land
area for containers, para 2.41), the original contract price obtained from the
low bidder was in line with market prices, but a major cost overrun is now in
the process of being negotiated as a result of unforeseen difficult foundation
conditions at the construction site.
2.44      The method of project preparation and implementation used by
ANp reflects present staff deficiencies in the organization (para 2.29)
and air's reluctance to use consulting firms (para 2.39).  In 1978, while



- 19 -
reviewing tne status of preparation of the development program, the Bank
found that there were qualitative deficiencies and that ANP's limited
staff was unable to provide the necessary effort to complete the project
designs, cost estimates, economic analyses and financial forecasts required
for appraisal. Therefore, UNDP-financed advisors were retained to work
with ANP's staff in completing an overall analysis of the investment program
and a detailed analysis of each project item being considered for Bank
financing, 1/
2.45      Outside assistance to improve ANP's capabilities in this area is
highly important. During negotiations, agreement was reached with ANP on
the methods and procedures to be employed for (a) preparation of detailed
designs covering the (relatively small) civil works components to be included
in this project, 2/ (b) preparation of bidding and contract documents,
(c) contractor prequalification, (d) bid evaluation and contract award,
and (e) supervision of construction and equipment manufacture.
(iv) Long-Range Port Development Prospects
2.46      Beyond the 1978-1982 development program of ANP, there are prospects
for additional investment needs in the port of Montevideo (para 2.05) on which
planning should be initiated in the next two years. In view of the possibility
of major transit traffic 3/ and expected increases in container movements for
Uruguay's exports and imports, future investments are likely to involve the
construction of additional berths and deepening of the port. For this purpose,
alternatives for port expansion should be reviewed comprehensively on the basis
of detailed information regarding subsurface and oceanographic conditions in
the Bay of Montevideo. Such information is not yet available.
2.47      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the scope of long-range
development planning to be undertaken by ANP, assisted by advisory services to
ANP's Planning Unit, which would be provided under the technical assistance
component of the proposed project (para 3.08). This planning work would
comprise the preparation of forecasts of export and import traffic and of
transit traffic potential, in collaboration with the National Transport Planning
Unit within MTOP; study of future operational requirements to accommodate
anticipated traffic; analysis of alternative development schemes, with comparison
of technical, operational and cost implications of alternative physical layouts,
resulting in selection of most effective and economical scheme; preparation of
development plan and phased investment program; engineering, financial and
ecor.omic evaluation of the recommended plan; and preparation of a program of
actions for implementation by ANP.
1/   The Bank was UNDP's Executing Agency for this preparatory work on the
project and retained nine specialists in various fields, who completed
the required work between February and May 1979. The cost of these
services was shared 50% by ANP.
2/   Estimated to cost US$6.5 million, of the total project cost of
US$58.2 million.
3/   Such traffic is to be analyzed as part of the national transportation
planning activity of MTOP and in the context of proposed planning
assistance to ANP (para 2.47).



- 20 -
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.   Objectives and Description
3.01      The proposed project is an integral part of ANP's ongoing (1978-1982)
investment program for the port of Montevideo (paras 2.40-2.42); it consists
of selected equipment and civil works components of the program for which ANP
requested Bank financing and technical assistance for program implementation
and institutional improvements. The proposed Bank financing would cover
approximately 56% of the total cost of ANP's 1978-1982 development program for
the port of Montevideo, or 75% of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the
program.
3.02      The objectives of the project are to increase the operating
efficiency and throughput capacity of existing terminal facilities in the
port of Montevideo through the introduction of modern handling methods and
equipment and to plan for port expansion needed after 1982. The project
would:
(a) convert an existing, open wharf into a modern terminal for
the handling of large shipments of dry-bulk imports such as
fertilizers and for the transfer of cargo in containers;
(b) reduce congestion and operating costs at existing general
cargo berths by introducing palletized handling methods and
replacing the present system of "direct transfer" between
ship and truck (or rail) with an "indirect transfer" system
by which most of the cargo will be moved through the
existing transit sheds;
(c) improve marine operations within the port and permit retirement
of large portions of ANP's obsolete fleet of harbor craft
through the acquisition of modern tugs and dredging equipment;
and
(d) introduce modern administrative, financial and planning
procedures for port management and future development,
including an appropriate tariff structure.
3.03      The proposed project would consist of the following components:
(a) acquisition of equipment and modification of an existing wharf
for a container and bulk cargo terminal;
(b) acquisition of equipment and improvement of pavement and
sheds for general cargo operations;
(c) acquisition of two harbor tugs;
(d) acquisition of a bucket dredge, with auxiliary equipment, and
of a suction-hopper dredge; and
(e) technical assistance to ANP.



- 21 -
3.04      The container and bulk cargo terminal, to be located on the existing
wharf "Muelle de Escala," 1/ would include acquisition of two bridge cranes
of 35-ton lifting capacity, equipped for operation with grab-buckets, container
spreaders or cargo hooks; widening and strengthening of approximately 90 m of
an existing (288-m long) wharf structure; construction of crane rail supports
for the full length of the wharf; concrete paving over the wharf surface and
adjacent existing land areas; and acquisition of yard handling equipment for
dry bulk cargo and container operations.
3.05      Equipment and alterations for general cargo operations would include
acquisition of about 60 forklift trucks, eight mobile cranes and 5,000 pallets;
structural alterations to six existing, multi-story transit sheds 2/ to
facilitate "indirect transfer" operations; and yard paving around three
existing, single-story transit sheds. 3/
3.06      The two new tugs would be diesel-powered and of standard design
for assistance to ocean vessels in berthing and unberthing operations. One
tug would have propulsion power of 2,400 hp and be designed for operations
in relatively sheltered harbor and channel areas only. The other would
have propulsion power of 4,000 hp and be designed for seagoing operations
to (a) provide capability for assisting vessels in distress outside the port
of Montevideo and (b) provide emergency service at the offshore tanker mooring
buoy near Punta Jose Ignacio. 4/ The 4,000-hp tug would be provided with
pollution control equipment (see also para 3.18); both tugs would have standard
fire-fighting equipment.
3.07      The3dredging equipment would comprise (a) a diSsel-powered grab-bucket
dredge of 6 mi capacity, three split-hull scows of 700 m capacity each, and
a 700-hp tug for toling the scows, and (b) a diesel-powered suction-hopper
dredge with 3,000 m bin storage capacity. This equipment would permit retire-
ment of ANP's obsolete dredging equipment and removal of the accumulated backlog
of maintenance dredging, and the deepening of the access channel to 11 m, so
that the largest vessels for which the port is designed could enter under all
sea conditions (Table 3.1).
3.08      The technical assistance would consist of approximately 18 man-years
of professional services for individual advisors to ANP, at an estimated cost
of US$6,000 per man-month, and engineering services by specialist firms, for
design and supervision of major project components and for subsurface explora-
tions, as described in more detail in Annex 3.
1/   See Map IBRD 14369R; this terminal facility would also incorporate an
adjacent, new land area of approximately 6 ha, for which dike construction,
fill, paving and lighting are already under contract.
2/   Sheds Numbers 1, 2, 6, 7, 8 and 9; see Map IBRD 14369R.
3/   Sheds Numbers 3, 4, and 5; see Map IBRD 14369R.
4/   About 125 km northeast of Montevideo; see Map IBRD 14367R.



- 22 -
B.   Cost Estimate and Financing
3.09      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$58.2 million, of
which US$50.0 million, representing 97% of the foreign exchange component,
would be financed by the proposed Bank loan; the balance would be financed by
internal cash generation of ANP. Equipment acquisitions represent 84% of
the estimated total, civil works 11% and technical assistance to ANP the
remaining 5%.
3.10      A summary of the estimated project costs is given on the following
page; further details are given in Table 3.2. The estimated cost of all
equipment items is based on performance specifications prepared by UNDP-
financed-advisors to ANP (para 2.44). The estimated cost of civil works
is based on preliminary engineering designs and current unit prices for
similar work in Uruguay. Cost estimates for technical assistance are based
on recent contracts or man-month rates for similar services provided by
local and foreign sources.
3.11      A physical contingency allowance of 15% was used for all civil
works. No physical contingency was used for equipment items and technical
assistance. Contingencies for price escalation reflect Bank guidelines.
Based on the project implementation schedule, the average estimated price
escalation throughout the implementation period amounted to about 12% of
project costs.
C.   Execution and Procurement
3.12      ANP would be responsible for execution of the project, in accordance
with the schedule given in Chart 3. For this purpose, ANP is in the process
of establishing a Project Implementation Department, which would be assisted
by advisors and/or consultants forming part of the technical assistance
component of the project. Technical assistance would also be provided to
other departments of ANP (Annex 3). In view of the Bank's previous experience
with projects in Uruguay and in order to speed up procurement of project-
related items, agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government
would be required to pass a decree granting ANP the necessary authorization
from the Government to carry out all procurement related to the project;
this requirement is a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
3.13      A key issue in execution of the project would be the preparation
of detailed engineering designs for all civil works and of performance-type
specifications for major items of equipment and the institution of procure-
ment procedures acceptable to the Bank, based on appropriate documentation
for both civil works and equipment components of the project (para 2.45).
Full-time engineering supervision of construction and professional inspection
of major equipment items (during fabrication and at times of delivery) would
be required. For the new container terminal complex at Muelle de Escala
(para 3.04), ANP would prepare a detailed analysis of container and bulk cargo
operations, which would provide the functional criteria for the specialist
firm to be retained by ANP for engineering design of this facility. Agreement
on these points was reached with ANP during negotiations.



- 23 -
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate and Financing
Foreign
Exchange        Bank
US$ million          Component   Participation
Local   Foreign   Total        X       US$ m       X
Project Components
1.  Container and Bulk Cargo Terminal
(a)  Bridge Cranes & Accessories        0.3      6.6       6.9       95         6.3      92
(b)  Yard Handling Equipment             -       0.9       0.9      100         0.9      92
(c)  Alterations to Muelle de Escala  2.5        1.7       4.2       40         1.7      40
Subtotal            2.8      9.2      12,0       75         8.9
2.  General Cargo Handling Equipment
(a)  Mobile Land-Based Equipment        0.1      3.5       3.6       95         3.4      92
(b)  Pavement and Shed Alterations      0.7      0.4       1.1       40         0.4      40
Subtotal            0.8       3.9      4.7       81         3.8
3.  Harbor Tugs                             0.3       6.6      6.9       95         6.5      92
4.  Dredging Equipment                      1.3      24.0     25.3        95       23.3       92
5.  Technical Assistance to ANP             0.5      2.0       2.5        80        2.0      80
Base Cost                               5.7     45.7      51.4                 44.5
Contingencies
(a)  Physical                           0.5      0.3       0.8                  0.3
(b)  Price                              0.8      5.2       6.0                  5.2
Subtotal            1.3       5.5      6.8                  5.5
Total               7.0      51.2     58.2        88       50.0      86



- 24 -
3.14      All major equipment components of the project would be awarded
through international competitive bidding (ICB) after prequalification of
firms in accordance with Bank Guidelines, with the normal provisions for
preference to local suppliers. Civil works for the container terminal would
also be awarded through ICB. Civil works for alterations to existing transit
sheds and pavement for general cargo operations (para 3.05) would be awarded
to prequalified contractors and advertised locally in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures.
D.   Disbursements
3.15      Implementation of the project is expected to take about three
years (1980-1982).  The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in
Table 3.3. Disbursements of funds from the loan would be on the following
basis:
(a) 40% of total expenditures for civil works (the estimated foreign
exchange component);
(b)  100% of foreign exchange cost or 92% of total expenditures for
equipment; and
(c) 80% of total expenditures for technical assistance.
E.   Project Monitoring
3.16      For the purpose of monitoring the project during implementation,
progress on the following matters for the port of Montevideo would be reviewed
with ANP:
(a) staff reductions over the period 1980-1984 (para 2.31 and
Annex 2);
(b) financial working ratio over the period 1980-1984 (para 5.10);
(c) tons of cargo handled per ship-day in port; and
(d) dredging operations, to remove the backlog of deferred
maintenance work (para 3.07).
F.   Environmental Impact
3.17      No significant environmental impact is expected in the city of
Montevideo and adjacent water areas as a result of ANP's 1978-1982 port
development program since all proposed improvements are confined to relatively
minor physical changes in existing facilities that have operated in the same
locations since construction of the port in 1905-1931.



- 25 -
3.18      Environmental considerations are a significant factor, however, in
the justification of a 4,000-hp tug (para 3.06), which is designated to provide
standby service at the offshore tanker terminal operated by ANCAP at Punta Jose
Ignacio. This terminal consists of a single-point mooring buoy, approximately
3.5 km from the shore, connected to land by subaqueous pipeline approximately
25 km northeast of the resort area of Punta del Este. While the terminal has
standard provisions against accidental oil spills, the possibility of a tanker
breaking loose from the buoy during a storm and being beached in the shore
areas near the existing resort is considered a potential hazard to the natural
environment and to the major tourism investments in the area. Furthermore, a
tug with sea-going capability may provide assistance to other vessels in
distress in Uruguayan waters, from its normal duty station of Montevideo, and
thus provide other emergency services. The incremental cost of the tug to
have such emergency service capacity in the open sea, rather than merely an
in-port service (i.e., the difference between 2,400 hp and 4,000 hp in propul-
sion power, related hull design, and anti-pollution devices, representing an
increase of 30% in the cost of the tug), is considered justified by environ-
mental and safety considerations.
C.   Risks
3.19      The proposed port improvements at Montevideo involve the risks
normally associated with the acquisition and operation of modern port equip-
ment and minor alterations to existing port structures, e.g., possible
increases in capital cost, delays in implementation and less than efficient
utilization. However, these risks would be affected significantly by ANP's
inexperience in the execution of a major program of this type and by the staff
deficiencies known to exist within the organization. The provisions for
organizational changes, technical assistance, engineering preparation and
supervision of the project (paras 3.12 and 3.13) are therefore of particular
importance.
3.20      The new container and bulk cargo terminal at the Muelle de Escala
(para 3.04) presents a special case, in which the provision of assistance
for engineering preparation and for initiation of operations is considered
imperative (Annex 3). Even with such assistance, however, productivity of
the terminal may be less than anticipated; this risk has been taken into
account in the economic analysis (para 4.13).
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
4.01      All components of ANP's development program have a common objective,
i.e., the replacement of existing equipment, which is both old and obsolete,
with modern equipment which would reduce overall port costs per ton of cargo,
including ship time. The investment components analyzed can be classified



- 26 -
into three principal groups. The first group is represented by cargo handling
equipment and related ancillary investments; its final objective is to reduce
overall port handling costs per ton and add capacity to existing berths. The
second group is represented by dredging equipment, and its objective is to
maintain the existing depth at nine meters at least cost and to catch up with
the backlog which has accumulated over recent years, reducing the original
draught of ten meters to the present nine. The third group is represented
by tug boats, and its objective is the elimination of some of the obsolete
existing fleet and the reduction of costs.
B.   Forecast of Operational Needs
4.02      Another main objective of the whole development program is to
provide increased port capacity needed for higher traffic. A traffic forecast
for the Port of Montevideo up to 1990 was prepared by consultants and revised
by the Bank. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the magnitude of expected
cargo movements, forecasts were prepared under minimum and maximum assumptions.
The forecast used is a best estimate representing the mid-point between the
two sets of assumptions. The best estimate forecast is reasonable and is in
line with growth rates for imports and exports estimated in the Bank Report,
Economic Memorandum on Uruguay, dated December 1977. Annex I explains the
rationale and assumptions used in the traffic forecast and contains a detailed
analysis of future traffic by major commodities and of containerized traffic.
Traffic through Montevideo is expected to grow from 1.5 million tons in 1978
to 1.9 million tons in 1983 and 2.7 million tons in 1990, mainly as a result
of the Government's strategy and efforts to increase the export of grains and
beef and to liberalize import restrictions. Such future traffic includes only
Uruguayan imports and exports since international through traffic has remained
of minor importance to date; 10% of the container cargo potential is already
containerized and is expected to increase in increments of 3% per year until
1983. By 1990, 50% of the potential is assumed to be containerized.
C.   Components of the Project
(i) Container - Bulk Cargo Terminal
4.03      Among the largest investments for the port, but also one creating
the largest capacity increase, is the conversion of the present Muelle de
Escala to a terminal for container and bulk cargo handling. The major part
of the earthworks to create a land area behind the dock has already started.
The proposed Bank project would include dock widening and strengthening and
the purchase of multipurpose bridge-cranes and yard equipment for bulk and
container handling. Since all investment is related to containers and bulk
cargo, the combined investment, including all earthworks, has been included
as cost of the project. Benefits include the reduction in handling costs per
ton and reduction in ship service time as well as ship delays avoided at other
parts of the port. These reductions will accommodate an expected change to
more costly but also more efficient ships. The improvement in dock produc-
tivity is clarified in Table 4.1, ship time savings are explained in Table 4.2
l



- 27 -
and ship delays in Table 4.3. A special problem arises concerning the transfer
of benefits to Uruguay from ship time savings. For bulk cargo, all would be
recaptured because a large part of these cargos would probably be carried by
a recently purchased 22,000-dwt vessel or because of freight rates established
taking the port cargo handling into account. For container cargo, the situa-
tion is more complex. Larger container ships have a substantial economy of
scale compared to small, and Uruguay is likely to continue to be served by
large foreign-owned units. Any time saving benefits to these ships may not
be fully recaptured by Uruguay. Without the project, Uruguay could be bypassed
by these ships and be subject to much larger transshipment costs. Also, other
advantages of door-to-door containerization may be such that a case would be
made that, in fact, all the ship savings in port would be transferred indirectly
to the Uruguay economy although not to the port itself. The best estimate has
therefore been made assuming a 50% recapture of port savings to container ships.
4.04      Various crane alternatives were considered such as bridge cranes,
portal cranes and different sizes of mobile cranes. The lower cost of the
cheaper mobile and portal crane alternatives and somewhat lower dock strengthen-
ing costs are more than offset by their lower productivity, which leads to
longer service and ship waiting times. An incremental analysis was carried
out for the different crane alternatives and demonstrated clearly that the
multipurpose bridge cranes are economically superior to the mobile and portal
cranes. The rate of return for the terminal complex, including the multipurpose
bridge cranes and the new land area, under the best estimate, is 21% with a
first year return of 11%; the rate would be reduced to 17% for 25% lower
benefits and 19% for 15% higher investment costs.
(ii) Cargo Transfer Equipment
4.05      One of the earliest parts of the proposed Bank-financed project
would be the purchase of mobile equipment for existing general cargo berths.
At present, investment of mobile cargo handling equipment has been limited
to items such as forklift trucks, mainly used for handling wool. The normal
handling method is discharge directly to or loading from trucks or rail wagons.
This method leads to longer ship time in port and waiting times for trucks.
A system of indirect transfer through existing transit sheds will reduce ship
and truck service times. An analysis of costs and benefits has been included
in Tables 4.4 and 4.5. The results show a rate of return of 36%, with a first
year return of 17%.
(iii) Harbor Tugs
4.06      The proposed tug boats are of two types, one of 2,400 hp and the
other of 4,000 hp. Tugs with 2,400 hp would, however, be adequate for the
Montevideo port functions, and the extra power from a 4,000 hp would be needed
to provide emergency service at the offshore tanker terminal at Punta Jose Ignacio
(para 3.19) and to carry out rescue and salvage operations in Uruguay's territorial
waters. Since the justification of the additional power from 2,400 hp to
4,000 hp is based on environmental considerations and since those benefits are
difficult to be quantified, the economic analysis considers, as a first step,
the hypothetical case of the provision of two 2,400 hp tugs. Those two tugs
would reduce ship waiting time and would be more efficient than ANP's present
tugs in that they can be operated with smaller crews, have a lower consumption
of fuel per operation and lower maintenance costs. With their purchase, it
would be possible to retire two of the larger and four of the smaller tug
boats of ANP's present fleet. During negotiations, agreement was reached on



- 28 -
timing and arrangements for the tug retirement program. The rate of return
for the 2,400 hp tug under the best estimate is 14% with a first year return
of 14%. The economic analysis, in a second step, did not quantify the environ-
mental and emergency service benefits associated with the incremental capital
and operating cost of the 4,000 hp tug, compared with that of the 2,400 hp tug
(para 3.18). The rate of return for the 4,000 hp tug under these conservative
assumptions is 7% with a first year return of 8%. In addition to the quanti-
fiable benefits limited to its port functions, the oceangoing 4,000 hp tug
would help to reduce the chance for, or minimize, accidental oil spills from
tankers unloading at the off-shore mooring buoy operated by ANCAP at Punta Jose
Ignacio and would be useful in carrying out rescue and salvage operations in
Uruguay's territorial waters, which is ANP's responsibility as laid down by
law. Details of the basis for the analysis are provided in Table 4.6.
(iv) Dredging Equipment
4.07      As outlined in paragraph 2.17, at present about 10 million m3 of
deferred maintenance dredging is needed in the port of Montevideo to bring the
access channel and harbor basin to their original depth (10 m). In addition,
deepening of the access channel (to 11 m) is planned to allow passage into the
port by the largest vessels that can be accommodated at existing berths without
major structural alterations; furthermore, there will be additional siltation
in the port throughout 1979. Thus, it is estimated that the total backlog of
dredging at the start of 1980 will be 13.6 million m3. The port, at present,
has two bucket chain dredges built in 1902 (D-3) and 1949 (D-6) and two suction
hopper dredges built in 1923 (D-5) and 1970 (D-7). The D-7 is the only rela-
tively new dredge currently owned by AN?. Given the quantity of dredging to be
performed for removal of the backlog and to maintain the port (Table 3.1), the
economic analysis searched for a least-cost solution and considered the purchase
of a new clam-shell grab-bucket dredge of 6 m3 capacity (D-8); this dredge
would reduce current operating and maintenance costs by enabling ANP to retire
its older, inefficient dredges and by avoiding or reducing contract dredging.
The economic evaluation of the D-8 is based on a two-shift operation, 30%
additional routine maintenance requirements, the retirement of the D-3, D-5
and D-6 when the D-8 becomes operational, repair of the D-7, and contract
dredging. The rate of return for the D-8 is estimated at 36%.
4.08      The 1978-1982 development program includes, besides the new D-8,
a new suction hopper dredge of 3,000 m3 capacity (D-9). The incremental
analysis for the D-9, using the same assumptions as for the D-8 (para 4.07),
but without contract dredging, showed a rate of return of 18%.



- 29 -
4.09      Finally, concerning the deepening of the access channel to 11 m,
an incremental analysis has been carried out taking into account the needed
incremental dredging cost, including the accumulated backlog, and the ship
voyage cost savings; in calculating the economic return, voyage cost-saving
benefits for container ships were considered at 50% and bulk carrier cost-
saving benefits at 100%. The analysis showed, assuming the purchase of the
D-8 and D-9, that the deepening of the access channel to 11 m is economically
justified.
D.   Development Program
(i) General Cargo Dock Cranes
4.10      ANP has already begun a first phase of improvement of cargo handling
operations by ordering 14 dock cranes to replace existing cranes, dating back
as far as 1911, and constructing a small warehouse for refrigerated cargo.
The cranes, although not part of the proposed Bank project, are part of the
investment program and, therefore, have been evaluated separately. Some of
the costs, however, have already been incurred and have been deducted from the
investment cost. The details of the analysis are included in Tables 4.4 and 4.7.
The most important benefit is the increased cargo handling rate without an
increase in dock labor, which will be achieved by faster crane cycle times
and greater cargo uplift. These have been conservatively estimated at an
increase from 15 to 16 cycles per hour, and a 10% increase in load per lift
(an average of about 670 kilograms at present). These changes will result in
lower labor cost per ton, lower ship service times and fewer delays for ships
waiting for available dock space. For all general cargo ships, only ship time
savings for Uruguayan ships and half of those for foreign ships have been
included (para 4.03). Changes in maintenance and operating costs have been
included as well as 80% of crane costs (the remainder is already paid) and
all investment costs for dock strengthening. Growth in the benefits for
cargo handling has been allowed until 1990 with no growth after that. Under
those relatively conservative assumptions, the best estimate rate of return is
32% with a first year return of 16%, with shadow pricing of local expenditures.
(ii) Grain Silo
4.11      Two basic design alternatives were analyzed, one with a storage
capacity of 25,000 tons and ship loading capacity of 750 tons per hour and
another with 7,500 tons storage capacity and ship loading capacity of 500 tons
per hour. It was found that reduced forecasts of grain traffic, increases in
the estimated construction cost of the silo and increased efficiency of
handling at existing berths make even the smaller alternative not economically
justified for construction at this time.



- 30 -
E.   Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analysis
4.12      In carrying out the economic assessment, adjustments have been made
to avoid the influence of taxes and customs duties. A shadow price conversion
factor of 0.80 was applied to adjust for distortions in the exchange rate.
The opportunity cost of capital in Uruguay was estimated at 11%.
4.13      The rate of return was computed on the costs and quantified benefits
described above, over the construction period and the economic life for each
of the components of ANP's development program as well as for the project as
a whole. In calculating the economic return, only half of the benefits from
reduced ship time of foreign liner ships have been considered (para 4.03).
Full ship time savings have, however, been considered for Uruguayan liner
ships as well as for all bulk vessels. It appears that a reasonable portion
of the ship time savings of foreign ships can be attributed to Uruguay through
increased possibilities of raising port charges and avoidance of the reimposi-
tion of the penalty surcharge by the conference, which was lifted during
1974-1976. If the project were not carried out, the continued use of existing
antiquated equipment and methods would result in substantial ship delays that
could trigger a reimposition of the penalty surcharge.
4.14      The rate of return for the cargo handling investment (new cranes,
changed cargo transfer and container/bulk cargo wharf) is about 27% (Table 4.7),
about 36% for the new D-8 and about 18% for the new D-9 dredge, about 14% for
the smaller of the two harbor tugs and about 7% for the larger. The overall
rate of return is 24%. The various parts of the project have been tested for
sensitivity, as shown in Table 4.8, and for major changes in costs or benefits.
For either higher investment costs or lower benefits, the rates are generally
adequate. The cargo handling investment program has also been tested for a delay
in implementation as well as an investment cost overrun and lower handling rates.
As indicated previously (para 3.21), a critical risk area is the bulk container
terminal. A special sensitivity test for this part of the project was there-
fore made assuming the simultaneous effect of 15% total higher investment
cost, a two-year delay in the construction and lower handling rates per crane
(to 15 TEU 1/ or 100 tons per crane per hour). The higher investment cost
would allow for the possibility of a substantial increase in the price of the
existing land reclamation contract.
1/   20-foot equivalent unit (of container)



- 31 -
The economic rate of return based on these assumptions was 15%. The major
risk is likely to be higher investment costs, whereas it is quite possible
that benefits *ill be higher than the best estimate. It should also be noted
that the measured benefits include only those obtained in the port itself, and
with no growth beyond 1990.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Recent Financial Performance of ANP
5.01      ANP has been a profitable institution over the last five years as
shown in the income statements, presented in peso terms in Table 5.1.
Because high rates of inflation in Uruguay over this period tend to distort
the real trends in these figures, the data are also presented in Table 5.2 in
US$ terms, using average exchange rates for each year. Table 5.2 is sumirarized
below.
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978
---------US$ Million-----------
Total Operating Revenue              34.1   34.4   27.5   30.5   25.3
Total Working Expenses               28.3   26.0   22.7   21.2   21.5
Working Income                        5.8    8.4    4.8    9.3    3.8
Depreciation                          0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1
Operating Income                      5.7    8.3    4.7    9.2    3.7
Non Operating Income (net)           (0.4)  (0.3)   0.1    0.4    0.4
Net Income                            5.3    8.0    4.8    9.6    4.1
Working Ratio                        0.83   0.76   0.83   0.70   0.85
Operating Ratio                      0.83   0.76   0.83   0.70   0.85
5.02      Thus, although annual revenues increased by 280% in peso terms
during the last five years, the dollar figures show a 26% decline during the
same period.  The main reason for the decline in real operating revenues is
that, during this period, an increasing portion of the traffic handled has been
exempted by the Government from having to pay ANP's charges. The exempted
amounts have increased as follows:



- 32 -
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978
ANP--------US$ Million-----------
Total Charges                        35.9   36.9   31.8   37.7   33.4
Total Exemptions                      1.8    2.5    4.3    7.2    8.1
Total Operating Revenues             34.1   34.4   27.5   30.5   25.3
% Exemptions                          5.2    6.7   13.1   17.4   22.7
The amounts of money involved in the exemptions, and the fact that most of
these exemptions are granted on a post facto basis, make it difficult for ANP
to arrive at any meaningful financial plans (para 2.36).
5.03      In spite of ANP's decline in revenues in real terms, profitability
has been maintained because of matching reductions in operating costs. Total
operating costs were reduced by 25% in US$ terms, by 37% in terms of Uruguayan
constant currency and by 43% in terms of US$ per ton of cargo handled. Thus,
while unit operating expenses per ton are still high (US$12.74/ton in 1978),
they have decreased dramatically since 1974 (US$22.50/ton). The reductions in
overall expenses have been achieved, primarily, through reductions in personnel
costs; average salary paid per employee has remained essentially constant in
US$ terms, and the number of employees has decreased by 15%.
5.04      ANP's current tariff schedule is summarized in Table 5.3, and it can
be seen that the schedule of charges covers the usual items including port
dues: towage, dockage, wharfage, cargo handling and storage. The actual
tariff system is very complex with a wide range of variation according to the
nature of the vessel, the time and location of service, the type of cargo,
and many "special" considerations such as the potential hazard to cargo. The
amount of revenue derived from most items in this complex array of tariffs,
however, is generally minor; the major source of ANP revenues is the ad-valorem
charge applied on the basis of CIF values on imported cargo. These values are
obtained from customs data, and the charge is generally 12%, although it ranges
down to 2e4% for some items. Revenues from the ad-valorem charge on imports
amounted to some 61% of ANP's total receipts at Montevideo in 1978. Until
1979, the second most important source of revenue was a fee paid by ANCAP, the
state-owned oil company, which has its own private wharf facility in Montevideo
and which paid ANP an ad-valorem fee of 3.6%, essentially in return for ANP's
agreement to maintain the access channel to the petroleum wharf. Since ANCAP
commenced using a single point buoy mooring at Punta Jose Ignacio at the end
of 1978, these payments have terminated.
5.05      Revenues from the ANCAP fees amounted to 16% of total revenues at
Montevideo's port in 1978. Total payments by ships amounted to US$1.4 million,
or 6% of total revenue, and total charges on export cargo amounted to US$154,000,
or less than 1% of total revenue. It is apparent that high charges made on
import cargo have been the main factor which has encouraged importers to apply
for the exemptions discussed in paragraph 5.02. It is an objective of the
Government to introduce a new tariff system related to costs, so that the
burden of paying port charges is spread more evenly over all cargo handled
and the tariff system encourages efficient utilization of the port. A decree



- 33 -
to this effect has been passed, and ANP has carried out an extensive study of
its current operating costs to determine an appropriate basis for the new
tariffs. A proposed schedule for these tariffs was presented during negotia-
tions, and ANP is expected to introduce the modified tariff system by early
in 1980. Implementation of such a tariff system is a condition of loan
effectiveniess.
5.06      The main advantage of the current tariff system is that the major
source of revenue, the ad-valorem charge, provides ANP witih a natural protec
tion against cost inflation. However, the discrete revenues dc not reflect
costs, the main distortions being the low ship charges, which reflect a poliy
of encouraging vessels on their way to and from Buenos Aires to call at the
port, and minimal charges on exports because of ANP's kesire to assist the
Uruguayan export trade. A comparison of operating expenses and revenues fol
the various categories of operation at Montevideo in 1978 shows the followinig-
Total              Per Unit
Charges   Costs      Charges  Costs
(US$ Thousand)      --(US$/Unit)--
Vessels                            1,398   2,457        1,480  2,6CO
Cargo Imports                     14,654)    138         13.3    3.4
Cargo Exports                        154)  5,             0.4    3.4
Cargo Storage                        170      650         0.5    2.0
Maintenance (includes dredging)  1,594   5,804            N/A    N/A
Administration                     4,079   5,584          N/A    N/A
TOTAL                             22,049  19,633          N/!    N/A
Thus, even without considering a loading for administration and maintenance
costs, it can be seen that only import cargo covers its direct operating
expenses.
5.07      ANP's balance sheets for the last five years are shown in Table 5.4.
The balance sheet figures for 1978 are provisional because accounts had not
been prepared at the time of appraisal. The figures in Table 5.4 are shown
in pesos; a summary in US$ terms is shown on the following page.



- 34 -
ANP - Balance Sheet Accounts
(US$ Million)
1975    1976    1977    1978
Cash                              8.0      7.1     9.9    12.1
Other Current Assets             14.2    13.8    16.8    10.4
Total Current Assets             22.2    20.9    26.7    22.5
Fixed Assets                      5.0      4.1     4.1      4.0
Other Assets                      0.4     0.2      0.3      0.4
TOTAL ASSETS                     27.6    25.2    31.1    26.9
Current Liabilities              11.8      9.3    10.2      8.8
Debt                              7.2      6.7     5.8      5.6
Equity                            8.6      9.2    15.1    12.5
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY   27.6    25.2    31.1    26.9
Current Ratio                     1.9      2.3     2.6      2.6
Debt/Equity Ratio               46/54   42/58   26/74   31/69
The financial position at the end of 1978 was sound: ANP's current ratio was
2.6 and its debt/equity ratio was 31/69.  The main features of the balance
sheet are:
(a)  Very low asset values.  It can be seen that total fixed assets
at the end of 1978 were valued at only 4 million dollars, which
is far too low for a port of this size. This low figure is,
of course, a direct result of ANP's use of historical value
accounting in a high inflation environment, and it was agreed
during negotiations that, in the future, ANP will keep
financial records that reflect current values (para 5.13).
(b)  Substantial holdings of cash.  The US$12.1 million recorded
is linked directly to the high payables figure. By the end
of 1978, ANP owed US$7.4 million to Government social security
schemes. This amount is held by ANP in Bank deposits.
(c)  High holdings of receivables.  At the end of 1978, they were
US$6.5 million, representing over 90 days' receipts. Most of
this money (US$4.2 million) was owed by ANCAP for its payment
for use of private facilities (para 5.04). ANCAP has agreed
to pay all this debt by the end of 1979 and had liquidated a
substantial portion of the account at the time of appraisal.
Thus, receivables were expected to decrease to about one month's
receipts at the end of 1979, which is satisfactory.



- 35 -
B.   Financial Objectives
5.08      ANP recognizes that the exemptions problem is a direct result of its
current tariff structure and that the new, cost based system it is required
to develop (para 5.05) will be the only solution to this problem. However,
it will still wish to provide lower rates for services to ships and, to some
extent, for export cargo, for the reasons described in paragraph 5.06. A
tariff structure based on this rationale should be acceptable to the Bank,
provided that tariffs for each service cover at least marginal costs. Agree-
ment on this point was reached with the Government and with ANP during nego-
tiations. ANP has not yet decided on the details of its new tariff system,
but a series of alternatives has been developed for discussion purposes with
the Government, and these alternatives are close to the figures used for the
appraisal projections (Annex 4).
5.09      Given the above constraints to ANP's overall tariff structure, the
administration is firmly committed to maintaining ANP as a profitable, finan-
cially self-sufficient institution. While the projections in this report
reflect this policy, a problem arises in defining meaningful targets for the
overall profitability of ANP. Most of ANP's assets are so old that, even
if historical values were updated, the current depreciation and depreciated
value would be almost nil, and, as a result, use of traditional oper:ting
ratio and return on asset targets is considered inappropriate. For this
reason, it was felt that the working ratio would best define ANP's financial
targets. The financial projections (para 5.10) indicate that the working
ratios would steadily improve from 85 to 68 in the period from 1979 to 1985,
and, on this basis, ANP achieves satisfactory debt coverage and overall cash
generation. It was agreed during negotiations that tariffs would be adjusted
whenever necessary to ensure that the working ratio would not exceed 81% in
1980, 76% in 1981, 74% in 1982, 70% in 1983, 69% in 1984 and 68% in 1985 and
thereafter.
C.   Revenue and Cost Projections
5.10      Financial projections have been made in current US$ terms in order
to avoid distortions arising from local inflation. Forecast income statements
are shown in Table 5.5 and in summary form below.
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
-----  -- -----US$ Million--------------------
Total Operating Revenues    25.3   28.5   32.1   36.0   40.9   47.5   53.6   60.4
Total Working Expenses        21.5   24.2   25.8   27.5   30.3   33.1   36.9   41.0
Working Income                 3.8    4.3    6.2    8.5   10.6   14.4   16.8   19.4
Depreciation                   0.1    0.1    0.4    1.7    2.7    4.2    4.2    4.3
Operating Income               3.7    4.2    5.8    6.8    7.9   10.2   12.6   15.1
Interest Revenue (Expense)   0.4   (0.3)  (1.1)  (3.4)  (5.1)  (5.4)  (5.0)  (4.5)
Net Income                     4.1    3.9    4.7    3.4    2.8    4.8    7.6   10.6
Working Ratio                   85      85     81      76     74      70      69     68
Operating Ratio                 86      85     82      81     81      79     77      75



- 36 -
5.11      Total operating revenues are expected to increase by 138Z during
the forecast period, reflecting an increase of 36% in real terms, slightly
above the forecast traffic growth of 35%. Total expenses are forecast to
grow by 91%, less than the growth in revenue. The lower growth in expenses,
which represents a 10% increase in real terms, is expected to be achieved
because of the further reductions in total employees that will be made. Thus,
although average wages are forecast to increase substantially, by over 100%
(in terms of US$), the total wage bill will increase by 65%.
5.12      The balance sheet projections are shown in Table 5.6 and summarized
below.
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
---------------------US$ Million---------------------
Current Assets           22.5   25.3   25.2   21.2   21.2   24.2   28.7   36.2
Fixed Assets               4.0   14.4   39.0   75.0   86.1   82.9   79.7   76.4
Other Assets               0.4    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5
Total Assets             26.9   40.2   64.7   96.7  107.8  107.6  108.9  113.1
Current Liabilities       8.8    9.8   10.0   10.1   10.4   10.7   11.1   11.5
Debt                       5.6   14.0   33.7   62.1   70.1   64.9   58.2   51.4
Equity                    12.5   16.4   21.1   24.5   27.3   32.0   39.6   50.2
Total Liabilities
and Equity             26.9   40.2   64.7   96.7  107.8  107.6  108.9  113.1
Current Ratio              2.5    2.6    2.5    2.1    2.0    2.3    2.6    3.2
Debt/Equity Ratio       31/69  46/54  61/39  72/28  72/28  67/33  60/40  51/49
It can be seen that ANP;s financial position will be sound through the period,
although the substantial borrowing that is expected to occur will dramatically
increase the debt/equity ratio in the early 1980s. By the end of 1985, ANP is
forecast to have some US$23 million in cash, an amount which represents a sub-
stantial surplus over the US$7 million assumed to be owed to Social Security
(para 5.07), but this surplus will probably, in fact, be required to finance
further investments which have not been included in these projections. To the
extent that ANP's contribution to a post-1982 investment program (above the
US$1 million/year assumed) has not been included in the figures, the projec-
tions overstate the financial position of the institution at the end of 1985.
Because the borrowing needed to finance the assumed investment program is
so substantial, it was agreed during negotiations that ANP will not carry out
any other investments of over US$1 million in value in any one year during the
project execution period without the approval of the Bank.
5.13      Forecast rates of return and debt coverage ratio are as follows:
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Rate of Return               224.4  116.9   67.6   24.6   12.6   12.1   15.5   19.4
Debt Service Coverage          3.5    3.2    2.9    1.7    1.2    1.4    1.4    1.7



- 37 -
As can be seen, the rate of return will decline dramatically when the new
investments are included in ANP's asset base, but the rates will still be
high after the project is completed. The high rates reflect, of course, L7:e
low historical values used for ANP's existing assets, and it is because
these returns are so high that a rate of return covenant is not co-sidered
appropriate. It appears that, were a study of ANP's existing assets carried
out, current total values would be very low, and these rates of return would
ctill be rather high. At the same time, it is considered appropriate that ANP
bhould, in the future, use a better accounting system for the Uruguayan environ-
ment in which high rates of inflation continue. For this reason, it was
agreed during negotiations that ANP would maintain, for management purposes,
financial records which reflect current values from 1980 onward. Debt service
coverage ratios are forecast to drop in the early 1980s as a result of incir-
rence of project-related debt prior to realization of the associated financial
benefits. However, by the end of the forecast period, the average ratio is
expected to be a passable 1.7. Because ANP will have relatively low debt
coverage ratios during the period, it was agreed during negotiations that ANP
will not incur additional debt beyond that already arranged, before complTtion
of the project, without the prior agreement of the Bank. This resttietion is
specified by means of a clause in the Loan Agreement requiring agreement from
the Bank for any new borrowing if the cash flow for the last 12 months is less
than 1.75 times the maximum debt service in any future year. In effect, this
will mean that, unless the cash flow exceeds the appraisal forecasts, further
borrowing, without Bank approval, will not be possible prior to 1985.
D.   Cash Flow Projections and Project Financing
5.14      Cash flow projections are shown in Table 5.7 and shown separately
in summary form below for the project execution years (1979-1982) and the
following three years.
Financing Plan - ANP
---Millions of US$----
1979-1982    1983-1985
Financial Needs
Investments:
Project                                  58.2           0
Non-Project                              28.8           3
Total                                    87.0           3
Other:
Debt Service                             17.1          33.6
Increase/(Decrease) in
Working Capital                        (0.5)          1.6
Increase/(Decrease) in Cash              (2.4)         12.4
Total Financial Needs                      101.2          50.6
Provided By
ANP Generated Funds                         29.5          50.6
Borrowings:
World Bank                               50.0           0
Other                                    21.7           0
Total                                   101.2          50.6



- 38 -
Thus, while total investments during the period between 1979 and 1982 will be
US$87.0 million, only 67% of these will be in project-related items. The
proposed Bank loan will comprise a high proportion, 86%, of the total invest-
ment in these items, but only 57% of the overall investment. ANP's contribu-
tion to the project will be US$8.2 million and, to the overall investment
program, will be US$15.3 million (17.6%). The other borrowing is assumed to
come mainly from the Banco de la Republica Oriental de Uruguay on the basis
of understandings that have already been reached, with additional export
financing for the dock cranes (already arranged).
E.   Sensitivity of Financial Forecasts
5.15      The financial forecasts are prepared on the assumption that a new
tariff system will be introduced early in 1980. If this system is introduced
later in the year, however, it should not significantly affect the forecast
since the initial total revenues from the new system are approximately equal
to those generated by the current system. Should the tariff structure adopted
by ANP differ markedly from that assumed for the financial projections, it
again will not significantly change the financial projections provided that
ANP meets the overall working ratio targets (Table 5.8).
5.16      Because most of ANP's revenue is expected to continue to come
from imported cargo, the financial performance of ANP will be most sensitive
to this item. As a result, it was made clear to ANP (para 5.09) that, if
traffic does not meet the levels anticipated, tariffs should be increased
sufficiently to compensate for this consideration.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following:
(a)  allowing selective salary increases for ANP staff (para 2.27);
(b)  allowing ANP to continue staff reductions (para 2.31);
(c)  discontinuing the practice of allowing exemptions from port
tariffs and refraining from the reimposition of such exemptions
(para 2.36);
(d)  authorizing ANP to carry out all procurement related to the
project (para 3.12); and
(e)  allowing ANP to adjust tariffs as required to meet its financial
objectives (para 5.08).



- 39 -
6.02      Furthermore, during loan negotiations, agreement was reached with
ANP on the following:
(a) timing for retirement of old dredges owned by ANP (para 2.18);
(b) timing and nature of organizational changes and goals for staff
reductions (para 2.31);
(c) requirements for future audits, including timing for submission,
retention of private auditors (if required) and treatment of
financial results in current values (paras 2.33 and 2.34);
(d) preparing and furnishing a copy of the draft budget to the Bank
at least three months prior to the start of the budget year
(para 2.35);
(e) scope and content of the 1978-1982 Development Program (para 2.42);
(f) methods and procedures satisfactory to the Bank for engineering
preparation and supervision of construction and equipment manufacture
(paras 2.45 and 3.13) and for long-term port development planning
(paras 2.47 and 3.08);
(g) preparation of a detailed functional analysis of container and bulk
cargo operations within the new container terminal complex at
Muelle de Escala (para 3.13);
(h) timing and arrangements for the tug retirement program (para 4.06);
(i) basis for structure and level of cost-based port tariffs, to cover
at least marginal costs for each service (para 5.08);
(j) periodic adjustments of tariffs, as needed to meet financial
targets (para 5.09);
(k) limit of US$1 million per year for any additional investment,
beyond items now included in 1978-1982 Development Program
of ANP (para 5.12);
(1) financial records to reflect current values from 1980 onward
(para 5.13); and
(m)  limitation of additional debt by ANP, subject to prior agreement
of the Bank (para 5.13).



- 40 -
6.03      The following are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan:
(a)  discontinuance of exemptions from port fees (para 2.36);
(b)  passing of a decree granting approval of all procurement
related to the project (para 3.12); and
(c)  implementation of a new port tariff system (para 5.05).
6.04      Subject to the above, the project constitutes a suitable basis for
a Bank loan of US$50.0 million equivalent to ANP, to be guaranteed by the
Oriental Republic of Uruguay; the terms would be 15 years, including a
three-year grace period.
December 28, 1979



URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Maritime Imports and Exports by Major Commodity Groups
(1973-1978)
(in thousands of metric tons)
1973     1974      1975     1976      1977      1978
Exports
1.  Primary Materials                   26.0      18.1     27.6      66.5     46.5      35.4
2.  Fuel and Lubricants                  6.3      10.5      3.7      50.5       9.9     15.9
3.  Minerals                             9.9       6.4      2.4       2.8      12.5      9.5
4.  Fertilizer and Prime Material        7.7      12.3      0.6       0.0       2.3      -
5.  Industrial Products                  3.2       9.5      9.7      11.6       8.8     19.1
6.  Vehicles/Machinery                   0.2       0.7      0.9       0.6       0.8      0.6
7.  Foodstuff/Vegetables                64.8      72.6     92.7    164.9    162.6    118.6
8.  Agricultural/Farm                   13.9      51.1     31.8      89.2      43.5     65.3
9.  Meat and Byproducts                 89.8    102.6      99.7    194.3    142.9    134.8
10.  Wool                                35.4      43.0     47.9      26.8      41.9     29.9             45
11.  Forest Products                      0.0       0.0      0.4       0.1       1.2      -
12.  Other                                2.2       3.9      4.0       0.8       0.4      0.6
TOTAL EXPORTS        259.4    330.7    321.4    608.1    473.3    434.7
Imports
1.  Primary Materials                  302.5    322.2    348.8    340.8    315.8    335.2
2.  Fuel and Lubricants                139.0    184.0    116.1    142.6    139.0    279.5
3.  Minerals                             9.9       2.4     22.9       5.3       0.0      1.0
4.  Fertilizer and Prime Material    160.3    183.1    111.9    129.5    112.8    141.9
5.  Industrial Products                  7.8      12.5      7.2      17.1       9.6     14.4
6.  Vehicles/Machinery                   9.2      25.3     16.8      20.4      21.6     18.0
7.  Foodstuff/Vegetables                23.1       7.3      3.7       4.1       5.6    132.6
8.  Agricultural/Farm                  150.9      61.9     22.8      12.5       9.0    171.9
9.  Meat and Byproducts                  0.3       1.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      1.0
10.  Forest Products                      4.1      12.6     12.2       3.8       5.4     10.2
11.  Other                                0.6       0.9       0.1      1.8       4.3      1.1
TOTAL IMPORTS 1/    807.7    813.2    662.5    677.9    622.8  1,106.8
TOTAL                            1,067.1  1,143.9    983.9  1,286.0  1,096.1  1,541.5
1/ Excludes crude oil.
Source: Centro Navegaci6n Transatlantica
September 1979



URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Forecast of Exports Through Montevideo Port (1979-1990)
(in thousand tons)
Minimum and Maximum Estimate
Cargo                     1978            1979          1980          1981          1982          1983          19901/
(Actual)
1. Grain in Bulk
a. Rice                  54           60-98         66-108        73-119        80-131        88-144        132-217
b. Other grain           66             22            23            25            27            29             44
Subtotal     120           82-120        89-131        98-144       107-158       117-173        176-261
2. Meat
(and by-products)       135          115-139       118-141       120-144       149-179       181-217        272-326
3. Wool                     30             43            43            44            44            45              68
4. General Cargo
(including non-grain
bulk cargo)            150          225-229       234-243       243-258       253-273       263-289        395-435
Total      Min.         435            465           484           505           554           606             911
Max.          -             531           558           590           654           724          1,090
1/ From 1983-1990 a 6% annual growth has been assumed for all cargo.
Source:  Consultant and Mission Estimates
September 1979



URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO BORT PROJECT
Forecast of Imports Through Montevideo Port (1979-1990)
(in Thousand tons)
Minimum and Maximum Estimate
1978           1979          1980          1981         1982          1983          1990
(Actual)
1. Wheat in bulk           109           0-220         0-224         0-229        0-233         0-238         0-274
2. Other Foodstuff         196            92            94            96           99           102           117
3. Industrial Products      16            17            18            19           20            21            30
4. Primary Materials
(of which, bulk 50%)   487 1/       511-516       537-547      564-580       592-614       622-651      875-979
5. Fuel & Lubricants       279         287-296       296-313       305-332       314-352      323-373       397-561
6. Capital Goods            18             20           21            23           25            28            51
Total     Min.        1,105           927           966         1,007        1,050         1,096         1,470
Max.         -            1,161         1,217        1,279         1,343         1,413        2,012
1/ Fertilizer 173.
Source: Consultant and Mission Estimates
September 1979



URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Forecast of Exports Through Montevideo Port (1979-1990)
Best Estimate 1/
(in thousand tons)
CARGO                         1978      1978    1979        1980           1981           1982           1983            1990
(Actual)  (Base)
1 Grain in Bulk
a. Rice                       54       54      79           87             96            106             116            175
b. Other grain                66       21      22           23             25              27             29             44
-17:      75      101         110            121             133            145            219
2 Meat
(and  by-products)       135      135      127          130            132            164            199             299
3 Wool                           30       30      43           43             44              44             45             68
4 General Cargo
Fruit. barley. grain
in bags                  1        6
(including non-grain    -         15u      227         239             250            263           .27             4
5      bulk cargo)              435      456     498          522            547            604             665           1001
1/ Best estimates are mid-points between the minimum and maximum estimates.
Source: Consultant and Mission Estimates
SeDtember 1979



URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Forecast of Imports Through Montevideo Port (1979-1990)
Best Estimate 1/
(in thousand tons)
1978         1979         1980         1981         1982         1983          1990
(Actual)
1  Wheat in bulk            109          110          112          115           117          119          137
2  Other Foodstuff          196           92           94           96            99          102          117
3  Industrial Products       16           17           18           19            20           21           30
4 Primary Materials
(of which, bulk 50%)   487            514          542          572          603          637           927
5  Fuel & Lubricants        279          292          305          319           333          348          479          4
6  Capital Goods             18           20           21            23           25           28           51
TOTAL                   1105         1045         1092         1144         1197          1255         1741
1/ Best estimates are mid-points between the minimum and maximum estimates.
Source: Consultant and Mission Estimates
September 1979



- 46 -                           TABLE 2.5
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
ANP - Present Staffing Schedule
General Administration
Professional and Technical Staff                    112
Medical Staff                                       118
Support Staff                                     1,221
1,451
Marine Operations
Administration                                       91
Tugs                                                262
Other                                                75
428
Cargo Handling
Administration                                      280
Handling                                          1,370
Tallying                                            123
Storage                                             638
2,411
Maintenance
Administration                                       95
Dredging                                            300
Workshops                                           658
Other                                               510
1,563
River Ports                                                       320
Maritime Operations                                                40
TOTAL STAFF                                                     6,213
Source: ANp
September 1979



- 47 -                                TABLE 2.6
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Investment Program of ANP for 1978-1982
(in US$ million)
Original
Budget                Current Cost Estimate a/
Program Components                Estimate        Already      Other(Not yet  Bank
(1977)         Contracted  Contracted)    Project  Total
CONTAINER & BULK CARGO TERMINAL
New Land Area & Paving                                   3.4           4.8
Two BridRe Cranes                                                                   8.2
Yard Handling Equipment                                                             1.0
Alterations to Wharf                                     _            _             5.4
Subtotal                       8.9             3.4            4.8        14.6      22.8
GENERAL CARGO HANDLING EQUIPMENT
14 Cranes procured from Spain                           6.9
Dock Structure Strengthening                                            3.2
Mobile, land-based Equipment                                                        4.1
Pavement and Shed Alterations                                                       14_ _    1.4
Subtotal                      18.7             6.9            3.2         5.5      15.6
HARBOR TUGS                                 6.2              -              -          7.8       7.8
DREDGING EQUIPMENT
New D-8 (Grab Bucket) and
Auxiliary Equipment                                                               8.2
New D-9 (Suction-Hopper)               _                                -          19.6
Subtotal                      15.7              -             -          27.8      27.8
REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSES                    4.0              3.7            1.6          -        5.3
GRAIN SILO                                 8.0               -              -           _
FISHING PIER                                3.0             2.2             -           -        2.2
MISCELLANEOUS OTHER ITEMS                   9.4              -             3.0         2.5 c/   5.5
Grand Total                   73.8            16.2           14.3        58.2      87.0
a/ December 1979 price levels with provisions for physical and price contingencies.
b/ Assuming postponement of silo construction beyond 1982.
_/ Technical assistance to ANP.
Source: ANP and mission estimates
November 1979



URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Forecast of Dredging Work and Port Conditions
(in '000 cu.m. - in place)
1980     1981      1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
BACKLOG - START OF YEAR
1.   Priority A Areas                            6,808    4,900    3,000        -        -        -       -        -        -        -
2.   Priority B Areas                            6,800    8,328    9,848  11,298   8,483   5,868   3,453   1,238            15 
3.                         Subtotal            13,608   13,228   12,848  11,298   8,483   5,868   3,453   1,238             15       -
4.   RESILTATION DURING YEAR                     3,210    3,210    3,500   3,700   3,900   4,100   4,300   4,300   4,300   4,300
5.   TOTAL TO BE DREDGED                        16,818   16,438   16,348  14,998  12,383   9,968   7,753   6,538   4,315   4,300
DREDGING DURING YEAR
6.   D-5 (Suction-Hopper)                          800       800      400       -        -        -       -        -        -        -
7.   D-6 (Bucket)                                  200       200      100       -        -        -        -       _        _        -
8.   D-7 (Suction-Hopper)                        2,590    2,590    2,590   2,590   2,590   2,590   2,590   2,590   2,590   2,590
9.   D-8 (Clam-Shell)                               -         -       350      700      700      700      700     700      700      700
10.   D-9 (Suction-Hopper)l/                         -               1 610   3,225   3,225   3,225   3,225   3,225   3,225   3,225
11.   TOTAL CAPACITY                              3,590    3,590    5,050   6,515   6,515   6,515   6,515   6,515   6,515   6,515
12.   BACKLOG - END OF YEAR                      13,228   12,848   11,298   8,483   5,868   3,453   1,238           15       -        -
13.   EXCESS CAPACITY                                -         -        -        -        -        -        -       -    2,200-/ 2,200
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1/  Based on  3,000 m3  capacity at two shifts.                        2/  Steady state reached in annual excess capacity of
2,200 million cu.m. per year.
Source:  ANP, UNDP advisors, mission estimates                                                                                     D
December 1979
o.
_.-



- 49 -
TABLE 3.1
Page 2 of 4
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Forecast of Dredging Work and Port Conditions
1. Estimated Dredging Backlog - 1980
Backlog        Estimated           Total
Existing        Siltation to       Backlog
Feb. 1979      Jan. 1980 1/        Jan. 1980
Priority A                                         (in '000 cu.m.-in place)
Access Channel 2/                     3,327              612             3,939
Antepuerto (navigation channel)       1,200              338             1,538
Basins I and II                       1,264               67             1,331
Subtotal              5,791            1,017             6,808
Priority B
Access Channel 3/                     1,872              -               1,872
Antepuerto (anchorage area)           1,760              479             2,239
Fluvial Basin                            35               25                60
ANCAP Channel Basin                   1,671              250             1,921
Coastal Shipping Area                   581               66               647
Access to Island Libertad                57                4                61
Subtotal              5,976              824             6,800
Total                                11,767            1,841            13,608
1/ Ten months deposit minus estimated dredging by D-5 and D-6.
2/ Backlog above depth of 10.0 m (Standard Datum).
3/ Material between 10.0 and 11.0 m depth (e.g. deepening for movement of
maximum size vessel that can be berthed at Muelle de Escala without
alterations); calculation basis given on page 3 of this Table.
Source: ANP, UNDP advisors, mission estimates
December 1979



- 50 -
TABLE 3.1
Page 3 of 4
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Forecast of Dredging Work and Port Conditions
2. Access Channel Deepening Requirements
(a) Harbor Basin and Access Channel
Nominal depth authorized at present                10.0 m (Standard Datum)
Actual depth available at Mean Low Water
after dredging to authorized depth               10.6 m
(b) Muelle de Escala
Maximum size vessel at berth can draw              10.4 m
Allowance for trim (nominal clearance)              0.2 m
Maximum draft when still, including trim           10.6 m
(c) Access Channel Depth
Draft of maximum vessel (30,000 t) still           10.6 m
Allowance for squat                                 0.2 m
Allowance for pitch                                 0.1 m
Under-keel clearance                                0.7 m
Total depth                11.6 m = 11.0 Nominal Depth
(Standard Datum)
(d) Access Channel Dredging
Minimum length          9,000 m (to Antepuerto, where tugs take over)
Width and side slopes 208 m                                                  3
Additional dredging for 10 to 11 m depth = 9,000 x 208 x 1 - 1,872,000 m
(in place)
(e) Channel Resiltation
As channel is in open sea and subject to cross-flow from La Plata River,
assume 15-20% of capital dredging as annual resiltation due to lowest meter,
or 300,000 m3/yr.



- 51 -
TABLE 3.1
Page 4 of 4
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Forecast of Dredging Work and Port Conditions
3.        Dredge Operations
(a) Basic Assumptions
(i) All dredges operate on two shifts, six days/week.
(ii) All dredges operate 270 days per year.
(iii) Rationale for days of operation:
Two-Shifts (6-Days)             Three-Shifts (5-Days)
Days/Year                 365                              365
Less Weekends             -52 (Sundays)                  -105 (Saturdays and
Sundays)
313                             260
5 Weeks' Overhaul         -30                             -25
283                             235
2 Weeks Lost (Weather)   -13                              -10
Production Days per year 270                               225
(b)  Annual Production of Dredges in 1980-1989
'000 M3
(in place measure)
D-5     Suction-Hopper (existing)                               800
D-6     Bucket Dredge (existing)                                200
D-7     Suction-Hopper (existing)                             2.590
D-8     Clam-Shell (proposed)                                   700
D-9     (3,000 m3) Suction-Hopper (proposed)                  3,225



- 52 -
URUGUAY                              TABLE 3.2
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT                         g1 of 7
Coat Estimate Breakdown
SUMMARY
Local        Forein          Total
(in US$ thoussnds)
1    Container and Bulk Cargo Terminal
(a)  Bridge Cranes                              347          6,593          6,940
Physical Contingency                   -             _
Price Contingency                      58          1.111         1.169
Subtotal           405          7,704         8,109
(b)  Yard Handling Equipment                     _             931            931
Physical Contingency                                                931
Price Contingency                                    107            107
Subtotal                       1,038          1,038
(c)  Alterations to Muelle de Escala          2,450          1,634          4,084
Physical Contingency                  338            245            612
Price Contingency                     470            313            783
Project Component Total                       3,258          2,172          5,430
Base Estimate                            2,797          9,158         11,955
Physical Contingency                       367            225            592
Price Contingency       TOTAL
TOTAL             528          1.31-          2 059
2.   General Car8o Handling Equipment
(a)  Mobile Land-Based Equipment                132          3,464         3,596
Physical Contingency                 -              -              -
Price Contingency                     18            456            474
Subtotal          150          3,920          4,070
(b)  Pavement and Shed Alterations              690            441         1,131
Physical Contingency                 104             66            170
Price Contingency                     90             57            147
Subtotal          884            564          1,448
Prolect Component Total
Base Estimate                              822         3,905          4,727
Physical Contingency                       104             66           170
Price Contingency                          108           513            621
TOTAL           1,034          4,484          5,518
3.  Harbor Tugs
Base Estimate                             347          6,587          6,934
Physical Contingency                      -              -              -
Price Contingency                          44            828            872
TOTAL              391         7,415          7,806
4.   Dredging Equipment
Base Estimate                           1,282         24,062         25,344
Physical Contingency                      -              -              _
Price Contingency                         113          2.292          2.405
TOTAL          1,395         26,354         27,749
5.   Technical Assistance to ANP
Engineering and Supervision for
Items 1-4                               354         1,416          1,770
Planning Studies and Advisory Service   146              I&             730
TOTAL            500          2,000          2,500
Project Total
Base Estimates                               5,748        45,712         51,460
Physical Contingency                           471            291        5,762
Price Contingency                              793         5,164           5 957
7,012        51,lf7         58,I79
Source; ANP, UNDP Advisors, Mission Estimates
December 1979



- 53 -
URUGUAY                                  TABLE 3.2
Page 2 of 7
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Cost Estimate Breakdown
1.   CONTAINER AND BULK CARGO TERMINAL
Local        Foreign        Total
(in US$ thousands)
(a) Two Bridge Cranes with Auxiliary Equipment
Cranes with spares (12%)                 347          6,281        6,628
8m3 clamshell buckets                     -              85            85
Containers spreaders                      -             227           227
Base Estimate               347          6,593        6,940
Physical Contingency (0)   -               -            -
Subtotal          347          6,593        6,940
(b) Yard Handling Equipment 1/
1 - Bulldozer  (D-4)                      -              90            90
2 - Front-end loaders                     -              94            94
3 - Tractors (yard hustlers)              -             156          156
6 - Trailers (20'-40')                    -              59            59
2 - 30T Lift trucks                       -             334          334
2 - Top lifting attachments               -             198          198
Base Estimate                -             931           931
Physical Contingency (0)   -                _           -
Subtotal             -             931          931
(c) Alterations to Muelle de Escala Multiplied by 1,075
(1) Structural work and wharf paving
Labor                                  1,193              59       1,252
Materials                                543          1,303        1,846
Equipment                                 5C             108          158
Base Estimate             1,786          1,470        3,256
Physical Contingency 15%  26E               220          488
Subtotal        2,054          1,690         3,744
(2) Paving on present land
Labor, materials and equipment           664             164          828
Physical contingency 15%                  99              25          124
763            189          952
Subtotal        2,817          1,879         4,696
Component Total 2/                                      3,164          9,403       12,567
1/ Preliminary Equipment List, subject to modification at time of purchase.
2/ Excluding price escalation and engineering services to ANP.
Source: UNDP Advisors
December 1979



54
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT                         TABLE 3.2
Cost EoiA a@ Breakdown
2.  GENERAL CARGO HANDLING
Local         Foreign          Total
(in US$ thousands)
(a)  Mobile, Lan      d         nt I/
45 Lift trucks, 4 T                     -             1,500           1,500
6 Lift trucks, 2.5 T                   -               139             139
6 Lift trucks, 2.0 T (electric)        -               201             201
Battery charging equipment           -                25              25
3 Lift trucks, 15 T                    -               344             344
2 Hydraulic cranes , 30 T              _               418             418
6 Mobile cranes, 7 T                  -                387             387
-        ~~3,014          3,014
Spare parts (12%)           -               361             361
-        ~~3,375          3,375
5000 Stevedoring pallets                 132               89             221
Subtotal           132            3,464           3,596
(b) Pavement and Shed Alterations
Pavement at Sheds # 3, 4 and 5
(8,000 m3)                           221               63             284
Alterations to Sheds # 1, 2, 6,
7, 8 and 9:
Structural                         261               65             326
Mechanical/electrical              208              313             521
690              441          1,131
Physical Contingency 15%        104               66             170
Subtotal           794              507           1,301
2/                               926            3,97I           4,897
1/ Preliminary Equipment List, subject to modification at time of purchase.
21 Excluding price escalation and engineering services to ANP.
Source: UNDP Advisors
October 1979



- 55 -
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT                         TABLE 3.2
Page 4 of 7
Cost Estimate Breakdown
3.   HARBOR TUGS
Local         Foreign         Total
(in US$ thousands)
(a) 1 - 2,400 HP Tug
Base cost (delivered in              147          2,726          2,873
Montevideo)
Spare parts                           -              108           108
Crew training                         11              21            32
158          2,855          3,013
Physical contingency (0)                        2,5            3
Subtotal                 158           2,855          3,013
(b) 1 - 4000 HP Tug
Base cost (delivered in
Montevideo)                         178           3,281         3,459
Spare parts                           -              108            108
Pollution control and other
special equipment                                   322           322
Crew training                         11              21             32
189          3,732          3,921
Physical cnntingency (0)           -            -                -
Subtotal                189           3,732          3,921
Component Total 1/                                347           6,587          6,934
1/ Excluding price escalation and engineering services to ANP.
Source: UNDP Advisors
October 1979



-56-                               TABLE 3.2
Page 5 of 7
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Cost Estimate Breakdown
4.   DREDGING EQUIPMENT
Local        Foreign         Total
(in US$ thousands)
(a) Grab-Bucket Dredge D-8
3
Dredge with 6 m  clamshell            188         3,762         3,950
3-Dump scows (600 m3)                  97         1,935         2,032
1-Towing tug (700 HP)                  38           753            791
Buckets and spare parts               -             161            161
Delivery to Montevideo & insurance   86             300            386
Crew training                          22            43             65
431        6,954          7,385
Physical Contingency (0)                         -             -
Subtotal             431         6,954          7,385
(b) Suction-Hopper Dredge D-9
Diesel-powered, 3,000 m3 bin-
capacity dredge with pumping
capacity of 1,700 HP                768        16,358        17,126
Delivery to Montevideo and
insurance                            46           176           222
Crew training                          37            74            111
851       16,608         17,459
Spare Parts                          -             500            500
Physical Contingency (0)               -            -              -
Subtotal              851        17,108         17,959
Component Total 1/                         1,282        24,062         25,344
1/ Excluding price escalation and engineering services to ANP.
Source: UNDP Advisors
December 1979



- 57 -                               TABLE 3.2
Page 6 of 7
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Cost Estimate Breakdown
Estimated Costs 1/
5.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO ANP                                          (in US$000)
Advisory Services by Individuals
18 m/yr at 12 mo at 6,000 = 1,296,000 say                       1,300
Specialist Teams
1.  Alterations to Muelle de Escala and
Acquisition of Bridge Cranes
35 m/m at 10,000 =         350,000
Subsurface Investigations: 20,000
370,000                               370
2. Acquisition of Marine Equipment
44  m/m at 10,000           440,000
Inspection trips to         40,000
shipyards                480,000                               480
3.  Subsurface Survey - Montevideo Bay
35 m/m at 10,UUU            150,000
Topographic & Hydrographic
Surveys                  l0O,0U0
30 borings at 3,000,
including laboratory
tests of samples =        90,0U0
Laboratory tests              10,000                              350
1i)0,uuu
TOTAL               2,500
1/ Based on cost of foreign advisors and consultants, local currency components
would normally be 20% of these estimated costs.
Source: Mission estimates
December 1979



- 58 -                             TABLE 3.2
URUGUAY                             Page 7 of 7
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Cost Estimate Breakdown
PROGRAM COMPONENTS NOT COVERED BY PROJECT
Local         Foreign        Total
(in US$ thousands)
Container Land Area
Original Contract                           1,919          1,279         3,198
Estimated Additional Cost                   2,734          1,822         4,556
Subtotal        4,653           3,101         7,754
Physical Contingency 5%        233             155           388
TOTAL           4,886           3,256         8,142
General Cargo Dock Cranes
14 Cranes (Spanish Contract)                  329          6,245         6,574
Contingency (5%)                            16            313           329
Equipment Subtotal                       345          6,558         6,903.
Dock Strengthening                          1,661          1,107         2,768
Contingency (15%)                          249            166           415
Civil Works Subtotal                     1,910          1,273         3,183
TOTAL           2,255           7,831        10,086
Refrigerated Warehouses
Reconstruction Shed No. 11 (contracted
January 1979)                               891            157         1,048
Equipment (contracted July 1978)              435          1,741         2,176
Additional Civil Works, Shed No. 10         1,186             209        1,395
Subtotal        2,512           2,107         4,619
Physical Contingency 15%      377             316          693
TOTAL           2,889           2,423         5,312
Fishery Pier
Civil Works Contract                        1,679             296        1,975
Contingency 10%                               168              30          198
TOTAL           1,847             326         2,173
Source: ANP, UNDP Advisors
December 1979



- 59 -                                TABLE 3.3
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Disbursed in      Cumulative Disburse-
IBRD Fiscal Yeai                    Quarter        ment at end of Quarter         %
FY 1980
March 31, 1980                         0.5                  0.5                   1
June 30, 1980                          1.0                  1.5                   3
FY 1981
September 30, 1980                     4.0                  5.5                  11
December 31, 1980                      8.0                 13.5                  27
March 31, 1981                         6.0                 19.5                  39
June 30, 1981                          6.0                 25.5                  51
FY 1982
September 30, 1981                     7.0                 32.5                  65
December 31, 1981                      7.0                 39.5                  79
March 31, 1982                         3.5                 43.0                  86
June 30, 1982                          2.5                 45.5                  91
FY 1983
September 30, 1982                     2.5                 48.0                  96
December 31, 1982                      2.0                  50.0                100
Source: Mission estimates
September 1979



TABLE 4.1
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Labor Costs of Container and Bulk Cargo Wharf
Containers                      Bulk Cargo
Port Labor Costs                Present        Bridge          Present          Bridge
Handling       Cranes         Handling          Cranes
ANP                           No.    Pesos   No.  Pesos    No.   Pesos        No.   Pesos
xn2eral foreman               .3       5.87   .5    9.68    .3      5.81
Cr2ne operator                          -    1     15.10    1      15.10      1      15.10
Trac>.oT Driver               2       27.32  2.5   34.15             -        1      13.66
Dackman                       4       49.16  4      49.16    4     49.16      4      49.16
Chief Tallyman                .3       4.79                  .3     4.79              -
Tallyman                      1       15.97   .5    7.99    1       15.97     1       15.97
CASE
General Foreman               .3       8.12   .5   13.53    .3      8.12      .5     13.53
Hatch foreman                 1       24.69   1    24.69    1       24.69     1       24.69
Hatch tender                  1                       -      1     19.02              -
Winch Driver                  2      171.18           -               -                -
Aoldman                       6               2    38.04    8    152.16.    2        38.04
Chief Tallyman                .3       7.71   .5   12.85    .3       7.71     .5     12.85
Tallyman                      1       23.46           -      1     23.46              -
Watchman                      1       16.14                           -                -
Tractor Driver                          -             -      1     19.02      .5       9.51
20.2    354.35 12.5  205.19  19.2   345.01   11.5    192.51
Production per gang hour             3 TEU          19 TEU        25 tons           163 tons
Gangs per vessel                     2               2              3                  2
Cost per ton                         118.116     10.799         13.800            1.181
Savings pesos                              107.317 per TEU                12.619  per ton
Savings $ (Shadow Priced)                   11.76                          1.383
(US$ = 9.125 Uruguayan Pesos)
Source:  ANP, mission estimates
September 1979



- 61 -                             TABLE 4.2
Page 1 of 2
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Container and Bulk Cargo Wharf
Port Handling per crane (gangs)
Ship Costs in Port                     Daily   Per hour         Present             Future
Liner ship                          $6,000   $250              6 TEU (2 gangs)   38 TEU (2)
Tween deckers                        4,000    166.66           75 tons (3)       326 tons (2)
Bulk carrier                         7,000    291.67           75 tons (3)       326 tons (2)
Small containership w/gear(700TEU)14,000    583.33             10 TEU (2)           -
Large containership (1,500 TEU)   20,000    833.33               _                38 TEU (2)
Container Operations
1983 Traffic                            Present System           Future Bridge Cranes
9,600 TEU in containerships /. 10 TEU=960 Hrs x$583.33           252.63 Hrs x~833.3
1,600 TEU in liners 1/                 266,67  x$250              42.11      x$250
11,200
Total for containerships                $559,997                      $210,524
for liners                          66,606                        10,526
$626,603                     $221,050
Savings in ship time                                      $405,553
of which to Uruguay                             $202,776
1990 Traffic
29,900 TEU in containerships            2,990 Hrs x$583.33        786.84 x$833.33
1,650 TEU in liners  1/                  275      x$250           43.42 x$250
31,550
Total for containerships                    $1,744,157                 $655,697
for liners                                68,750                   10,855
$1,812,907                $666,552
Savings in ship time                                     $1,146,355
of which to Uruguay                           $  573,177
Bulk Cargo Operations
1"83 Tralfic
55,500 tons in tween deckers  1/         740 Hrs x$166.66        170.25 x$166.66
207,000 tons in bulk carriers           2,760      x$291.67       634.97 x$291.67
262,500
Total for tween deckers                      $123,328                  $28,374
for bulk carriers                      805,009                   185.202
$  928,337                 $213,576
Savings in ship time                                         $714,761
1/ Only half of these ships will use the new wharf.



TABLE 4.2
- 62 -                              Page 2 of 2
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Container and Bulk Cargo Wharf
Present System        Future Bridge Cranes
1990 Traffic
69,500 tons in tween dackers             926.67 Hrs. x$166.66       213.19 x$166.66
324,000 tons in bulk carriers           4,320          x$291.67      993.86 x$291.67
393,500
Total for tween deckers                         $ 154,439                  $35,530
for bulk carriers                        1,260.014                   289.879
$1,414,453                 $325,409
Savings in ship time                                           1,089,044
Summary                    Container Operations                  Bulk Cargo Operations
1983            1990             1983                1990
Ship time savings           202,776         573,177          7i4,761             1,089,044
Port cost savings                  I
(from Table 4.1)      11,200 x 11.76  31,550 x 11.76  262,500 x 1.383   393,500 x 1.383
= 131,712        = 371,028         = 363,038            544,211
Costs                                             Both Operations
1983                           1990
Ship delay costs:
Berth occupancy                       .183                           .307
Waiting time/service time             .04                            .14
Yearly ship cost                    $14110                         $96217
Port equipment maintenance:
Cranes                             $193680                        $193680
Mobile equipment                     51960                          51960
Source: ANP, mission estimates, MICRO, FAIRPLAY, local shipowner's and ship's agents
September 1979



- 63 -                               TABLE 4.3
Page 1 of 2
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Ship Delay Benefits
Ship Waiting Times for General Cargo Berths (12)
With Cranes, Indirect
Present             With New            With Cranes and    Delivery and New
Handling            Portal Cranes       Indirect Delivery  Bulk/Container Berth
Average
daily tons         540                      585                630                  630
1982 Cargo tons   1,771,000             1,771,000              1,771,000
Ship days             3,280 (.07)1/       3,027 (.04)            2,811 (.02)    Not yet in
operation
1983 Cargo tons   1,890,000             1,890,000              1,890,000            1,532,000
Ship days             3,500 (.11)          3,231 (.07)            3,000 (.04)          2,432 (.01)
1984 Cargo tons   1,990,000             1,990,000              1,990,000            1,593,000
Ship days             3,685 (.19)         3,402 (.09)             3,159 (.05)         2,529 (.01)
1985 Cargo tons   2,095,000             2,095,000              2,095,000            1,657,000
Ship days             3,879 (.37)          3,581 (.14)            3,325 (.07)          2,630 (.01)
1986 Cargo tons   2,206,000             2,206,000              2,206,000            1,723,000
Ship days            4,085 (.50)           3,771 (.26)            3,502 (.11)          2,734 (.01)
1987 Cargo tons   2,323,000             2,323,000              2,323,000            1,791,000
Ship days            4,302 (over .5)    3,971 (.41)               3,687 (.20)         2,842 (.02)
1988 Cargo tons   2,446,000             2,446,000              2,446,000            1,863,000
Ship days            4,530 (over .5)    4,181 (over .5)           3,883 (.37)          2,957 (.03)
1989 Cargo tons   2,576,000             2,576,000              2,576,000            1,937,000
Ship days            4,770 (over .5)    4,403 (over .5)           4,088 (.50)          3,074 (.04)
1990 Cargo tons   2,712,000             2,712,000              2,712,000            2,014,000
Ship days             5,022 (over .5)    4,636 (over .5)          4,305 (over .5)    3,197 (.06)
1/ Waiting times in units of service time within parenthesis, some years waiting times
exceed 50% of service time.



- 64 -
TABLE 4.3
Page 2 of 2
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Ship Delay Benefits
Ship Waiting Times for Gerneral Cargo Berths (12)
Portal      Benefit        Indirect      Benefit      Bridge      Benefit   Ship Cost   Net
Cranes        to   2/      Delivery        to         Cranes        to       to Uruguay  Benefit
Total       Uruguay-       Total         Uruguay      Total       Uruguay   at New BerthtO Uruguay
US$ (000)
1982     543          342            324           204        Not yet in operation
1983     794          500           531            334          478          301        14          287
1984   1,970        1,240            741           466          664          418        19          399
1985   4,669        2,939         1,343            845        1,032          650        26          624
1986   5,311        3,343         2,973         1,872         1,789        1,126        33        1,093
1987    New                       4,454          2,804        3,403        2,142        41        2,101
1988    Berth                         New Berth              6,740         4,243        51       4,192
1989    Required                      Required               9,605         6,046        69       5,977
1990                                                         9,605         6,046        96        5,950
2/ Based on calculation in Table 4.4 and a daily average cost of US$5,000 per
ship day of which 62.95% accrues to Uruguay.
Source: Mission estimates
September 1979



- 65 -                         TABLE 4.4
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of New Cranes and Cargo Transfer
Port Labor Costs                  Present Direct Delivery           Indirect Delivery
No.         Cost per hour      No.        Cost per hour
ANP Crane operator                 1             15.10 pesos    1           15.10 pesos
Forklift driver                -                             2          27.32
Porters                        5             61.45           3          36.87
4         49.16
CASE Hatch tender                              133.14          11         133.14
Holdmen                       6)                           6
2 foreman                     1             24.69           1          24.69
1 foreman                     .3             8.11           .3          8.11
Chief tallyman                .3             7.71           .3          7.71
Tallyman                      1             23.46           1          23.46
Watchman                      1             16.14           1          16.14
Total cost per gang hour         16.6           289.80         20.6        341.70
Tons per  gang hour at present         10
Cost per ton                           28.98 pesos
Throughput with 15 cycles              10 tons/hour
16  "                 10.67 tons/hour
Throughput with 10% load increase    12.5 tons/hour
Savings per ton pesos 289.80         289.80   -   5.79 x .8  =e.A34
10           12.5    =        7,3
Ship cost    -  $6,000 per day
Without new cranes       With new cranes
Handling rate per day   360 tons                450 tons
Ship cost  per ton    6,000  = $16.666        6,000 - 13,333
360                   450
Ship savings per ton           $16,666 - $13,333 = $3,333
Savings to Uruguay
Uruguay flag vessels 25.9% + 50 x 74.1% foreign = 62.95%
100
Ship cost savings to Uruguay    2.098   $/ton
Shore savings                      .634
2.732
75% of ships uses cranes          2.049  x 480.000 tons = in 1982 $ 983.520
Yearly increased operating and maintenance cost $2.800/year
Saving in 1982          910,720
Source: ANP, mission estimates
September 1979



- 66 -                            TABLE 4.5
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Indirect Cargo Transfer
Present                    New
Port Labor Cost                         Direct Transfer         Indirect Transfer
Pesos/gang hour (Table 5.1)                  289.80                   341.70
Average tons/gang hour                        11.                      13.2
(including new cranes for 6 berths)          26.34 per ton            25.89 per ton
Truck waiting cost per ton                     3.50
Port savings per ton                             pesos 3.95 = US$.432
Ship Cost Savings
Ship cost/ton (daily ship cost            6,000 = 15.151            6,000 = 12.631
tons per ship day)          396                       475
Saving                                                  $2,520 per ton
Ship cost saving to Uruguay (62. 95%) (Table 4.4)        1,586 per ton
Total saving to Uruguay                                  2,018 per ton
Savings per year           S/vear       Port Cost - $/year
1981   1 berth            61,250 tons      123,603         32,000
1982   3 berths         183,750            370,808         96,000
1983   5 berths          306,250           618,013        160,000
1984   full implementa-
tion            499,600         1,008,193        200,000
a) This includes operating and maintenance costs except labor for operators.
Source: ANP, mission estimates
September 1)79



- 67 -                             TABLE 4.6
URUGUAY                             Page 1 of 2
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Tug Boats
(in US$)
Present operating costs of                           Months
Artigas (1941 HP)                                  per year          Per Year
Two eight hrs. shifts/day
Wages for 14 persons x 2                                12              95,953
Meals                                                    9              14,015
Diesel Fuel                                              9              57,506
Lube and water                                           9               8,581
Supplies                                                 9              13,901
Maintenance                                             12             237,151
SUB-TOTAL                                                              427,107
Present operating costs of
Pascual (400 HP)
Two eight hrs. shifts/day
Wages for 7 persons x 2                                 12              47,976
Meals                                                    8               6,229
Diesel Fuel                                              8              11,052
Lube Oil                                                 8               3,813
Supplies                                                 8               6,178
Maintenance                                             12              59,397
SUB-TOTAL                                                              134,645
TOTAL                                                                561,752
OperatinR costs of
NewTug boat (2,400 HP)
Two eight hrs. shifts/day
Wages for 10 persons x 2                                12              68,556
Meals                                                    9              18,792
Diesel Fuel                                              9              91,872
Lube Oil                                                 9              11,484
Supplies                                                 9              18,444
Maintenance                                             12              30,972
TOTAL                                                                  240,120



- 68 -                               TABLE 4.6
Page 2 of 2
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Tug Boats
(in US$)
Months
per year                 Per Year
Operating costs of
New Tug boat (4,000 HP)
Two eight hrs. shifts/day
Wages for 10 persons x 2                            12                     68,556
Meals                                                9                    18,792
Diesel Fuel                                          9                   152,772
Lube Oil                                             9                    19,140
Supplies                                             9                    30,624
Maintenance                                         12                    51.156
TOTAL                                                                    341,040
Ships Waiting Time Savings  in 1983                                       60,640
in 1990                                    111,901
Source: ANP
September 1979



URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Costs and Benefits for Cargo Handling US$(000)
Portal Cranes                                        Indirect Cargo Delivery                                       Container & Bulk Wharf
Year   Investment      Port       Ship Service       Ship    Investment       Port       Ship Service      Ship    Investment       Port             Ship Service             Ship
Cost      Operating       Time and      Waiting       Cost       Operating      Time and      Waiting       Cost       Operating            Time and            Waiting
Cost        Shore Cost       Time                     Cost        Shore Cost       Time                     Cost              Shore Cost              Time
Saving        Saving                                 Saving         Saving                                        Saving              Saving
for           for
Containers   Bulk Cargo       Net
1SeO      5259            -              -                       1439           -             -                        3659           -                            _            _
1981      2801           -               -             -         1439           32           124             -         9098           -              -             -            -
1982         -            73            983           342        1439           96           371            204        4864           -              -             -            -
1983         -            73           1032           500          -           160           618            334         323          246           334          1078           287        1
1984         -           73            1084          1240          -           200          1008            466          -           246           387          1144           399        a,
1985         -           73            1138          2939          -           200          1058            845          -           246           449          1214          624
1986         -            73           1195          3343          -           200          1111           1872          -           246           521          1288         1093
1987         -            73           1254          3343          -           200          1166           2804          -           246           605          1366         2101
1988         -           73            1317          3343          -           200          1224           2804          -           246           701          1449         4192
1989         -           73            1383          3343          -           200          1285           2804          -           246           814          1538         5950
1990         -            73           1383          3343          -           200          1285           2804          -           246           944          1633         5977
1991         -           73            1383          3343          -           200          1285           2804          -           246           944          1633         5950
1992         -            73           1383          3343          -           200          1285           2804          -           246           944          1633         5950
1993         -            73           1383          3343          -           200          1285           2804          -           246           944          1633         5950
1994         -           73            1383          3343          -           200          1285           2804          -           246           944          1633         5950
1994-2008 each year       73           1383          3343          -            -             -                          -           246           944          1633         5950
Source: Mission estimates
September 1979



70 -                           TABLE 4.8
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests
-25%               +15%         First Year
Best Estimate       Benefits       Investment Costs      Return
Dock cranes and dock
strengthening                      32                26                  29              16
Equipment for general cargo
handling and indirect
delivery                           36                29                  33              17
Civil works, cranes and
equipment for container
and bulk cargo handling            21                18                  19              11
Total cargo handling                27                22                  26
2,400 h.p. tug                      14                10                  12              14
4,000 h.p. tug                       7                  4                  6               8
Dredge D-8                          36                 28                 32
Dredge D-9                          18                 12                 15
Source: Mission estimates
nae^p- 1070



TABLE 5.1
-71 -
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
ANP Income Statement
1974 - 1978
(NPOOO)
1974          1975          1976          1977          1978
------------------Actuals-------------------            Estimate
MONTEVIDEO PORT
Revenues:
Towing                        514           719         1,407         6,435         7,095
Berthing                      142           158           193         1,181         1,491
Other Ship Charges             39            75            29         1,158           238
Cargo Handling              3,263         2,330         4,471         6,134         7,940
Storage                       926         2,195         2,158         1,113         1,071
Ad-valorem Charges (net) 18,612          36,650        50,551        68,626        85,499
Special Fees              10,208        21,863        18,319         31,306        25,741
Other Items                 2.772         5.403         5.538        14.985        10.057
Total Operating Revenue:   36,476          69,393        82,666       130,938       139,132
Expenses:
Labor                     23,427        40,826        50,174         69,635        99,877
Materials                   1,249         3,301         3,678         6,869         7,671
Other                       7.240       11,274         17.617        17.102        14.337
Total Working Expenses       31,916        55,401        71,469        93,606       121,885
Working Income                4,560        13,992        11,197        37,332        17,247
RIVER PORT
Revenue                       5,483         8,040         9,300         8,797        15,618
Working Expenses              2,423         3j541         4,401         5,099         9,000
Working Income                3,060         4,499         4,899         3,698         6,618
SHlPPING
Revenue                         342           437         1,287         5,798         5,048
Working Expenses                712           801         1,121         2.419         3.100
Working Income                 (370)         (364)          166         3,379         1,948
ANP TOTAL
Revenue                      42,301        77,870        93,253       145,533       159,798
Working Expenses             35,051        59,743        76,991       101,124       133,985
Working Income                7,250        18,127        16,262        44,409        25,813
Less Depreciation             169           326           340           351           694
Operating Income              7,081        17,801        15,922        44,058        25,119
Non Operating Income/(Exp)   (500)           (688)          282         1,762         2,369
Net Income                    6,581        17,113        16,204        42,296        22,750
Source: ANP
September 1979



- 72 -
URUGUAY                           TABLE 5.2
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
ANP Income Statement
1974 - 1978
(US$ 000)
1974        1975          1976          1977          1978
-------------------Actuals-------------------         Estimate
MONTEVIDEO PORT
Revenues:
Towing                        415          318           415          1,349        1,124
Berthing                      115           70            57            247          236
Other Ship Charges              31          33             9            243           38
Cargo Handling              2,631        1,031         1,319          1,286        1,258
Storage                       747          971           637            233          170
Ad-valorem Charges (net)  15,010        16,217        14,911         14,387       13,550
Special Fees                8,232        9,674         5,404          6,563       4,079
Other Items                 2,235        2,391         1,633          3,142        1,594
Total Operating Revenue:    29,416        30,705        24,385         27,450       22,049
Expenses:
Labor                      18,893       17,663        14,801         14,599       15,828
Materials                   1,007        1,461         1,085          1,440        1,216
Other                       5,839        4,988         5,197          3,585        2,589
Total Working Expenses       25,739       24,112        21,082         19,624       19,633
Working Income                 3,677       6,593         3,302          7,826        2,416
RIVER PORT
Revenue                       4,422        3,558         2,743          1,844        2,475
Working Expenses              1.954        1.567         1.298          1.060        1.426
Working Income                 2,468       1,991         1,445            775        1,049
SHIPPING
Revenue                          276         193           380          1,216          800
Working Exp as                   574         354           331            507          491
Working Income                  (298)       (161)           49            709          309
ANP TOTAL
Revenue                      34.114       34,456        27,508         30,510       25,324
Working Expenses              28,267      26,033        22,712         21,200       21,550
Working Income                5,847        8,423         4,796          9,310        3,774
Less Depreciation             136          144           100             74          110
Operating Income              5,711        8,279         4,696          9,236        3,664
Interest Expense/(Rev)          (403)       (305)           83            369          375
Net Income                     5,308       7,974         4,613          8,867        3,289
Source: ANP
September 1979



- 73 -
URUGUAY                    ~~~~~TABLE 5.3
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
ANP - Current Tariff Summary
Tariff Item                      Tariff                               Comment
Charges on Vessels:
Tugs                      Minimum US$122/service               Complex schedule, varying with
Maximum US$958/service               NRT of vessel, size of tug and
Average US$595/service               location of service
Port Dues                 Minimum US$92.80/entry               Schedule depends on NRT of vessel.
Maximum US$245.14/entry              Some vessels exempt.
Average US$120/entry
Dockage                           US$22.93/day                 Does not vary with size of vessel.
Other Charges
Equipment Floating Crane        US$135/hour
Rent of Launcher                N$ 293/service
Charges on Cargo:
Wharfage                          N$3.8/Ton                    Basic charge for imports.
Handling Charge           Imports N$7.5 - 0.4/Ton              Varies with type of cargo.
Exports N$0.3 - 1.8/Ton
Special Fees on Imports  2.4-12% C.I.F. Value                  Basic charge is 12%.
Storage                   Basic Charge 70 pesos/ton/month    Six days free time.
Doubles on penalty charge each month.
Cranes                    20 Ton US$60/hour
200 Ton US$100/hour
Other Cranes and Winches
US$30/hour
Conveyors                 US$1/ton
Source: ANP
September 1979



- 74 -                                  TABLE 5.4
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
ANP Balance Sheets
December 31. 1978
(N$000)
1974         .1975          1976          1977           1978
ASSETS                                                                                    _
(Estimate)
Current Assets
Cash                       11,688        21,798         28,559        53,563        85,345
eceivables                 12,635        30,455        41,239         73,643        45,588
Prepaid Expenses            2,299         4,491          8,342         8,371        10,973
Inventories                 1,394         3,838         5,429          8,550        16,766
Sub Total               28,016        60,582        83,569       144,127        158,672
Other Assets                   4,781          1,105           914         9,499          2,646
Suspense Account               7,733            -             -             -              -
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets          9,512        14,863         17,607        24,288        30,578
Less Accrued Depreciation   470           1,180          1,113         1,716         2,340
Net Fixed Assets            9,042        13,683         16,494        22,572        28,328
TOTAL ASSETS             49,572        75,370       100,977        176,198       189.556
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities           18,438         32,235        37,112        55,228        62,246
Other Liabilities              3,577            -             -             604            -
Long Term Debt                15,992         19,672        26,976        31,165         39,270
Capital and Surplus           11,565         23,463        36,889        89,201        88,040
TOTAL LIABILITIES        49,572        75,370       100,977        176,198       189,556
Liquid Ratio                      1.3           1.6          1.9           2.3            2.1
Current Ratio                     1.5           1.9          2.3           2.6            2.5
Debt/Equity Ratio               58/42          46/54         42/58         26/74        31/69
Source:   ANP
September 1979



- 75 -
TABLE 5.5
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
ANP Income Projections
(Figures in Thousands of Dollars)
1978       1979        1980        1981       1982        1983        1984        1985
OPERATING REVENUES
TOWING                                           1124.0      1200.0     1739.2      1955.4      2161.7     2397.5      2666.8      2974.4
PORT DUES                                          38.0        50.0      811.6       912.5      1008.8     1118.8      1244.5      1388.1
DOCKAGE                                           236.0       240.0      556.6       625.7       691.7      767.2       853.4       951.8
MUELLE DE ESCALA                                                                                            1376.8     1687.0      2034.0
CARGO HANDLING                                   1258.0      1400.0    22560.1    25526.1    29064.7    33148.3    37780.1    42853.5
STORAGE                                           170.0       200.0     1297.3      1467.8      1658.7     1878.2      2125.4      2391.4
AD-VALOREM CHARGES                              21650.0    25000.0
SPECIAL FEES                                     4079.0                                          500.0      500.0       500.0       500.0
OTHER ITEMS                                      1594.0     2000.0      2100.0      2200.0      2300.0     2400.0      2500.0      2600.0
EXEMPTIONS                                       8100.0     5000.0
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                22049.0    25090.0    29064.8    32687.4    37385.5    43586.7    49357.2    55693.3
WORKING EXPENSES
LABOR                                           15828.0    17074.7    17865.9    18572.7    20127.6    21561.6    23717.8    26089.6
MATERIALS                                        1216.0      1500.0     1694.5      1917.4      2205.5     2539.3      2921.0      3347.6
OTHER                                            2589.0     3500.0      3953.9      4474.0      5146.2     5925.1      6815.8      7811.0
TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES                          19633.0    22074.7    23514.4    24964.1    27479.4    30026.1    33454.6    37248.1
WORKING INCOME
RIVER PORTS
REVENUE                                          2475.0      2500.0     2000.0      2200.0      2350.0     2600.0      2900.0      3200.0
WORKING EXPENSES                                 1426.0      1570.0     1725.0      1898.0      2088.0     2300.0      2530.0      2800.0
WORKING INCOME                                   1049.0       930.0      275.0       302.0       262.0      300.0       370.0       400.0
SHIPPING
REVENUE                                           800.0      900.0      1000.0      1100.0      1200.0     1300.0      1400.0      1500.0
WORKING EXPENSES                                  491.0       540.0      590.0       650.0       720.0      790.0       870.0       960.0
WORKING INCOME                                    309.0       360.0      410.0       450.0       480.0      510.0       530.0       540.0
TOTAL ANP REVENUE                               25324.0    28490.0    32064.8    35987.4    40935.S    47486.7    53657.2    60393.3
TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES                          21550.0    24184.7    25829.4    27512.1    30287.4    33116.1    36854.6    41008.1
WORKING INCOME                                   3774.0     4305.3      6235.4      8475.3    10648.2    14370.6    16802.6    19385.2
DEPRECIATION                                      107.0       124.0      393.0      1681.0      2713.0     4186.0      4226.0      4266.0
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                        21657.0    24308.7    26222.4    29193.1    33000.4    37302.1    41080.6    45274.1
NET OPERAlING REVENUE                            3667.0     4181.3      5842.4      6794.3      7935.2    10184.6    12576.6    15119.2
INTEREST CHARGED To OPERATIONS                    241.0      281.0      1135.0      3411.0     5154.0      5429.0      4973.0      4530.0
NET INCOME AFTER TAX                             3426.0      3900.3     4707.4      3383.3      2781.2     4755.6      7603.6    10589.2
ALLOCATION OF NET INCOME
RETAINED EARNINGS                                3426.0     3900.3      4707.4      3383.3      2781.2     4755.6      7603.6    10589.2
WORKING RATIO PERCENTAGE                           85.1        84.9       80.6        76.4        74.0       69.7        68.7        67.9
OPERATING RATIO PERCENTAGE                         85.5        85.3       81.8        81.1        80.6        78.6       76.6        75.0
INTEREST COVERAGE                                  15.7        15.3        5.5         2.5         2.1        2.6         3.4         4.3
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                               3.5         3.2        2.9         1.7         1.2         1.4         1.4        1 7
RETURN ON AVERAGE NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE
BEFORE TAXES                               224.3       116.9        67.6        24.6       12.4        12.1        15.5        19.4
Source: Mission Estimates
December 1979



URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Balance Sheet Projections as of December 31
(Figures in Thousands of Dollars)
1978        1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984         1985
ASSETS
CASH                                  14484.0    18192.3    17148.3    12201.4    12093.8         14555.3      18041.8    24497.5
INVENTORIES                                       2733.5       3332.9      3882.2      3442.7      3341.6      3715.5      4130.8
ACCOUNTS: RECEIVABLE                  6466.0       2849.0      3206.5      3598.7      4093.6      4748.7      5365.7      6039.3
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                   1556.0      1556.0      1556.0      1556.0      1556.0      1556.0       1556.0      1556.0
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS               22506.0    25330.8    25243.7    21238.3    21186.0    24201.6    28679.0    36223.6
GROSS FIXEO ASSETS                    3693.0       4432.0    14332.0    44532.0    91432.0    92432.0    93432.0    94432.0
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION                424.0       548.0       941.0      2622.0      5335.0      9521.0    13747.0    18013.0
NET FIXED ASSETS                    3269.0      3884.0    13391.0    41910.0    86097.0    82911.0    79685.0    76419.0
WORK IN PROGRESS                        739.0    10500.0    25600.0    33100.0
OTHER ASSETS                            376.0       500.0       500.0       500.0       500.0       500.0        500.0       500.0
TOTAL ASSETS                            26890.0    40214.8    64734.7    96748.3   107783.0   107612.6   108864.0   113142.6
LIABILITIES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                       1442.0      2418.5      2582.9      2751.2      3028.7      3311.6      3685.5       4100.8
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES              7387.0      7387.0      7387.0      7387.0      7387.0      7387.0       7387.0      7387.0
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES           8829.0      9805.5       9969.9    10138.2    10415.7       10698.6    11072.5    11487.8
LONG TERM OEBT
FOREIGN LOANS                      5270.0    10818.0    23666.0    48728.0    57804.0    54295.0    49269.0    44243.0
LOCAL LOANS                          300.0      3200.0    10000.0    13400.0    12300.0    10600.0           8900.0      7200.0
TOTAL LONG TERM DEBT              5570.0    14018.0    33666.0    62128.0    70104.0    64895.0    58169.0    51443.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES                       14399.0    23823.5    43635.9    72266.2    80519.7    75593.6    69241.5    62930.8
EQUITIES
CAPITAL                               9065.0       9065.0      9065.0      9065.0      9065.0      9065.0       9065.0      9065.0
RETAINED EARNINGS                     3426.0       7326.3    12033.8    15417.1    18198.3    22953.9    30557.6    41146.8
TOTAL EQUITIES                          12491.0    16391.3    21098.8    24482.1    27263.3    32018.9    39622.6    50211.8
TOTAL EQUITIES AND LIABILITIES          26890.0    40214.8    64734.7    96748.3   107783.0   107612.6   108864.0   113142.6
CURRENT RATIO                               2.5         2.6         2.5          2.1         2.0         2.3         2.6         3.2
LIQUID RATIO                                2.5         2.3         2.2          1.7         1.7         1.9         2.3         2.8
DEBT TO EOUITY PERCENTAGE                  44.6        85.5       159.6       253.8       257.1        202.7       146.8       102.5
Source:   Mission Estimates
December 1979



URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
ANP Sources and Applications of Funds Projections
(Figures in Thousands of Dollars)
1978       1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984        1955
1. SOURCES
NET OPERATING REVENUE                         3667.0      4181.3      5842.4      6794.3      7935.2    10184.6    12576.6    15119.2
DEPRECIATION                                    107.o       124.0      393.0      1681.0      2713.0      4186.0      4226.0      4266.0
NET NON-OPER REVENUE & ASSET SALE
TOTAL INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                  3774.0     4305.3      6235.4      8475.3    10648.2    14370.6    16802.6    19385.2
PROPOSED BANK LOAN/IDA CREDIT                                        13500.0    26000.0    10500.0
EXISTING BANK LOAN/IDA CREDIT
OTHER FOREIGN LOANS                                       6200.0
LOCAL LOANS                                    700.0      3300.0      7200.0      4000.0      1000.0
TOTAL LONG TERM DEBT                             700.0     9500.0    20700.0    30000.0    11500,0
DECREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL
OTHER THAN CASH                             7226.0      1860.0                               222.2
TOTAL SOURCES                                  11700.0    15665.3    26935.4    38475.3    22370.4    14370.6    16802.6    19385.2
-4
II.APPLICATIONS
PROPSED BANK/IDA PROJECT                                            15800.0    30200.0    12200.0
OTHER CAPITAL INVESTMENTS                               10500.0      9200.0      7500.0      1600.0      1000.0      1000.0      1000.0
TOTAL CAPrTAL INVESTMENT                                 10500.0    25000.0    37700.0    13800.0         1000.0      1000.0      1000.0
LOCAL LOAN REPAYMENT                          400.0       400.0       400.0       600.0      2100.0      1700.0      1700.0      1700.0
FOREIGN LOAN REPAYMENT
WORLD BANK                                                                                           2085.0      4170.0     4170.0
OTHER                                     427.0       652.0       652.0       938.0      1424.0      1424.0       856.0       856.0
TOTAL PRINCIPAL REPAYMENT                      827.0       1052.0      1052.0      1538.0     3524.0      5209.0      6726.0      6726.0
LOCAL INTEREST PAYMENTS                                               200.0       700.0      1100.0      1200.0      1100.0      1000.0
FOREIGN INTEREST PAYMENTS
WORLD BANK                                                         533.0      2094.0      3536.0      3819.0      3566.0      3292.0
OTHER                                      241.0       281.0       402.0       617.0       518.0       410.0       317.0       238.0
TOTAL INTEREST PAYMENTS                        241.0       281.0      1135.0      3411.0      5154.0      5429.0      4973-0      4530.0
INCREASE IN WORKING
CAPITAL OTHER THAN CASH                                                  792.5       773.3                  271.1       617.0       673.6
INCREASES IN OTHER ASSETS/PAYMENTS                        124.0
TOTAL                                                      124.0       792.5       773.3                   271.1       617.0       673.6
CASH AT BEGINNING OF YEAR                    3852.0    14484.0    18192.3    17148.3    12201.4    12093.8    14555.3    18041.8
CASH AT END OF YEAR                         14484.0    18192.3    17148.3    12201.4    12093.8    14555.3    18041.8    24497.5
CASH INCREASE FOR YEAR                       10632.0      3708.3    -1044.0    -4946.9        -107.6      2461.5      3486.6      6455.6
........    ..........   ..........    ..  .......    ..........    ..........   ..........    ..........
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                            11700.0    15665.3    26935.4    38475.3    22370.4    14370.6    16802.6    19385.2
Source:   Mission Estimates                                                                                                                    r
December 1979



URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Ratio Projections
1978        1979        1980        1981        1982         1983        1984        1985
WORKING RATIO PERCENTAGE                             85.1        84.9        80.6         76.4        74.0        69.7        68.7         67.9
OPERATING RATIO PERCENTAGE                           85.5        85.3        81.8         81.1        80.6        78.6        76.6         75.0
INTEREST COVERAGE                                    15.7        15.3         5.5          2.5         2.1         2.6         3.4          4.3
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                                 3.5         3.2         2.9          1.7         1.2         1.4          1.4         1.7
RETURN ON AVERAGE NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE
BEFORE TAXES                                 224.3        116.9        67.6        24.6         12.4        12.1        15.5        19.4
CURRENT RATIO                                         2.5         2.6         2.5          2.1         2.0         2.3         2.6          3.2     X
LIQUID RATIO                                          2.5         2.3         2.2          1.7         1.7         1.9         2.3          2.8
DEBT TO EOUITY PERCENTAGE                            44.6        85.5       159.6        253.8       257.1       202.7       146.8        102.5
Source: Mission Estimates
December 1979



- 79 -
ANNEX 1
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Analysis of Future Port Traffic
A.   Exports
Agricultural products will continue to form, in volume at least,
the main part of Uruguay's exports, although recent years have seen a rapid
growth in non-traditional exports, e.g., woolen textiles and garments, shoes
and other leather clothing products. While revenue from such exports already
exceeds that from the traditional ones, in volume, such manufactured products
are still minor items. They do, however, represent a future potential for
containerization. In August 1978, the Government announced the elimination of
controls on pricing and marketing of agricultural goods. The result of this
liberalization has been a substantial increase in the prices of farm outputs,
and the investment climate in the agricultural sector is now very favorable.
Accordingly, the Bank recently appraised an agricultural development project
that would provide credit and technical assistance aimed at increasing
production and productivity of beef, veal, and milk, and, to a lesser degree,
crops.
1.  Rice
The fastest growing export commodity will continue to be rice, which
is expected to increase, at least up to 1983, by 10% per year, somewhat less
than the trend of the past few years in view of the recent success of this
item and the special attention it has received from the Uruguayan authorities.
This forecast is in accord with the Bank's Economic Memorandum for Uruguay
dated December 1977. Since rice is grown principally in the east and northeast,
Montevideo is its natural port of exit, and at least 80% of the rice exports
are expected to be handled there, principally in bulk, the balance going over-
land to Brazil.
The minimum forecast is based on the quantity handled in 1978, but,
since that was a bad year agriculturally, the maximum is based on the quantity
of the year before.
Rice in Bulk (in thousand tons)
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982     1983      1990
Minimum           54       60        66       73        80       88       132
Maximum            -       98       108      119       131      144       217
2.   Wheat
The prospects for wheat exports are analyzed in paragraph 9.



- 80 -
ANNEX 1
3.   Other Grain
Successful experiments in the growing and export of soybeans are
expected to lead to further growing and export of this crop. All the maize
(corn) and sorghum grown is expected to be absorbed by the local market,
although small annual surpluses may occasionally be exported. A growth of
7% annually for soybeans, sorghum and other grains has therefore been
assumed, ignoring the exceptional shipment of sorghum in 1978. The fore-
cast has been based on the 21,000 tons exported in 1977. No figures were
available for previous years.
Other Grain (in thousand tons)
1978         1979      1980      1981     1982      1983     1990
66 1/ 2/     22        23        25       27        29       44
4.   Meat
In spite of the adverse effects, in the last few years, of Government
policies (such as fixed livestock prices) and geographic barriers for beef
marketing, the new agricultural policy initiated in 1978 is expected to bring
about a recovery in this subsector, which is that of Uruguay's greatest
comparative advantage. Meat, therefore, is likely to remain the country's
principal export and will grow over the next few years, with a somewhat
accelerated growth after 1982 when present new investments come to fruition.
These figures are in accord with the Bank's export projections. The proportion
of meat exports handled by the port of Montevideo is assumed to remain unchanged,
i.e., 93%, because refrigeration and packing plants are concentrated in the
Montevideo area, with the balance of exports going overland to Brazil. Fish -
classified by ANP statistics under Meat - is also included in the above
category and growth figures. A considerable amount of the additional fish
exports, however, are likely to be in processed forms in view of considerable
investments in the fish processing industry.
Since the export of meat will depend upon the elasticity of demand
for local consumption in the higher price range that the present price decontrol
will bring about, an overall average growth rate of 6% per year between 1978 and
1983 has been assumed as a minimum (this rate, however, is not uniform but picks
up steeply after 1982, as explained above). The Bank's projection of 10% per
year is used as a maximum.
1/   ANP figures for 1977:  21.
2/   This figure represents an exceptional sale of excess sorghum stored from
previous years and has been ignored for projection purposes.



- 81 -
ANNEX 1
Meat and its Byproducts (in thousand tons)
1978     1979      1980      1981      1982     1983      1990
Minimum          135       115       118      120       149       181       272
Maximum           -        139       141      144       179       217       326
5.   Wool
The increase in wool exports - all of which go through the port of
Montevideo - is expected to be somewhat slower over the coming years since
wool exports to the EEC are already reaching import limits and new limits are
being negotiated. The USA and Canada were also expected to limit imports,
thus forcing Uruguay to search for new markets for any additional exports.
The annual growth figure of about 1%, however, is based on 1977 results of
42,000 tons rather than the modest ones of 1978.
Wool (in thousand tons)
1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1983      1990
30Q!     43        43        44       44        45        68
1/   ANP figures for 1977;  42.
6.   General CarRo
Other exports, including manufactured articles, agricultural produce
and some bulk cargo have been assumed, for the minimum forecast, to grow at
the rate projected in the Economic Memorandum for the GDP, namely 4.5%, and,
for the maximum forecast, at the 6% growth rate for exports in general. This
category, however, is likely to be subject to large fluctuations created, as
in past years, by its agricultural components which are influenced by the
vagaries of weather.
General Cargo (in thousand tons)
1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1983      1990
Minimum          216       225       234      243       253       263      395
Maximum           -        229       243      258       273       289      435
Table 2.1 of the appraisal report summarizes the export cargo forecast.



- 82 -
ANNEX 1
B.   Imports
7.   General
The new economic policy begun at the end of 1978 aims, among other
things, at reducing the many different high protective import tariffs to a
uniform 35% on all imports over a period of five years, according to Central
Bank authorities. The result will be a potentially higher import of competi-
tive consumer goods including foodstuffs. On the other hand, some of the
industries that today enjoy protection from outside competition (e.g., paper
and rubber) may well cease production, thus cutting down the import of raw
materials used by such industries. The rising price of land indicates more
intensive cultivation in the future, requiring greater imports of fertilizers
and farm machinery.
8.   Wheat (in thousand tons)
Whereas Uruguay has been mostly an exporter of wheat, exceptionally
bad crops in the last three years have made the country a heavy importer of
this product. For 1979, the Government authorized the import of 220 thousand
tons to supplement the local crop and to keep the local price from rising too
steeply. According to the Government, this situation will change in the near
future when at least the local demand will be met by Uruguayan crops. The
minimum forecast concurs with this view. The present import volume of 220,000
tons has been assumed for the maximum forecast. The resulting best estimate
of 110,000 tons is most likely to occur in a good harvest year when the crops
will exceed the requirements of the local market, whereas, in bad years,
imports would be needed. An annual growth rate of 2% has been assumed for
all foodstuff, which is the rate given in the Bank's Economic Memorandum.
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982      1983     1990
(actual)
Minimum                      0        0         0         0        0         0
Maximum          109       220      224       229      233        38       274
Other Foods
113-      92        94       96        99       102      117
1/   Because of draught and blight, 1978 was an exceptional year for food
imports, and the figure has been reduced by about one-third to serve
as base.



- 83 -
ANNEX 1
9.   Industrial Products
The Pink's Economic Memorandum assumes a rather conservative 2% annual
growth rate for industrial products. SEPLACODI, the Government's Planning
Agency, estimates, however, that the growth rate should be on the order of 5%
per year in view of the anticipated progressive removal of import tariffs.
A 5% growth rate has therefore been assumed for this item.
Industrial Products (in thousand tons)
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982      1983     1990
16       17        18       19        20       21        30
10. Primary Materials
Primary materials have, to date, formed an important part of cargo
passing through the port, with about one-half of this cargo being in bulk,
such as fertilizers, sulphur, salt, and gypsum. A 5% growth rate has been
assumed for these imports as a minimum and 6% as a maximum, which is the
growth given for this class of goods by the Bank's Economic Memorandum.
Primary Materials (in thousand tons)
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982     1983      1990
Minimum          487      511       537       564      592       622      875
Maximum           -        516      547       580      614       651      979
11.  Fuel and Lubricants (excluding Crude Petroleum)
The increasing import of cars and agricultural machinery expected
to result from the easing of tariffs may well keep this item at the 6% growth
rate as in the Bank's Memorandum. However, the combined increase in cost of
fuel and lubricants could slow this rate of growth. A 3% growth rate has
therefore been assumed for the minimum forecast.
Fuel and Lubricants (in thousand tons)
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982     1983      1990
Minimum          279       287      296       305      314       323      397
Maximum           -        296      313       332      352       373      561



- 84 -
ANNEX 1
12. Capital Goods
A 9% growth rate has been assumed for this item, which is in
accordance with the Bank's Economic Memorandum.
Capital Goods (in thousand tons)
1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1983     1990
18       20        21       23        25        28       51
13. Petroleum
Petroleum is no longer imported through the port and therefore does
not form part of the above forecast of cargoes to be handled by the port. It
is discharged at the ANCAP offshore buoy at Jose Ignacio.
14. Best Estimates
Table 2.2 of the appraisal report summarizes the import cargo fore-
cast. The technical, economic and financial analyses are based on a best
estimate of imports (Table 2.3) and exports (Table 2.4) through the Montevideo
port, which has been determined as mid-point between the minimum and maximum
estimates.
C.   Transit Traffic
15.       Transit traffic from Argentina, Bolivia and Paraguay was, for the
five years, insignificant and has not been included in the traffic forecast
for the proposed project.
Transit Traffic (in thousand tons)
1974     1975      1976     1977      1978
International Transit                10        23        18       22        31
To River Free Zones                   7         7         9       11        14
(via Montevideo)
The future prospects of transit traffic for the port of Montevideo will be
studied within the transport planning unit of MTOP (para 1.16).
D.   Container Potential
16.       ANP statistics do not record container movements except for those
of empty boxes. The Shipping Association (Centro de Navegacion Transatlantica)
assumes that containerization will be a very slow process in Uruguay, mainly
because consignments of cargo in or out of the country, which could be carried
in containers, are too small to justify full container loads. This argument



- 85 -
ANNEX 1
has been used in some other ports also, which have subsequently known
considerable growth of container traffic, as is quite likely to be the
development in Montevideo. The cargo which is potentially containerizable
is shown in Table 1 of this Annex. The forecast for the number of containers
(in TEUs) to be handled by the port is shown in Table 2 of this Annex.
E.   Ship Forecast
17.       The ship forecast (Table 3 of this Annex) which has been prepared
is also a best estimate forecast. Considerable fluctuation in the average
cargo size occurred between 1973 and 1978, reaching a high of 1,906 tons in
1974 and a low of 791 tons in 1977; the average for the five years was 1,534
tons. This information is based on the average quantity of cargo taken in
and out per ship. Because of the larger increases in certain quantities
of cargo which lend themselves to greater specialization, the numbers of
specialized ships will increase whereas, at present, they are rather limited;
only 34 in 1978. This number is likely to increase in coming years, especially
as a result of the expected containerization of general cargo, which has
hardly started. The expected division between specialized cargoes carried
on specialized ships and specialized cargoes carried on general cargo ships
is shown in Table 3 of this Annex.
September 1979



-86 -                       ANNEX 1
Table 1
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Container Cargo Potential (1979-1990)
Best Estimate
(in thousand tons)
1979      1980       1981       1982       1983      1990
Imports
Foodstuff              92         94         96         99       102        117
Industrial Products   17          18         19         20        21         30
Primary Materials 1/ 128         134        141        148       156        219
Subtotal              237        246        256       267        279        366
Exports
General Break Bulk   171          179       188        197        207        311
cargo 2/
Total                 408        425        444        464       486        677
Percentage of
Expected
Containerized Cargo   13          16         19         22        25         50
In Thousand Tons       53         68         85       102        122        338
Imports                31         39         49        59         70        183
Exports                22         29         36         43        52        156
1/ 50% of the non-bulk imports of primary materials.
2/ 65% of general cargo exports (i.e., all non-bulk general cargo).
Assumption
1. 10% of the potential is already containerized, and each year to
1983,another 3% will be containerized. Furthermore, by 1990, 50% of
all the potential will be containerized.
Source: Consultant and Mission Estimates
June 1979



- 87 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Container Forecast
Best Estimate
(in TEU's)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1990
Containers In
Full                    2,800    3,500   4,500   5,400   6,400   16,600
Containers Out
Full                    2,000    2,600   3,300   3,900   4,700   14,200
Empty                     800       900   1,200   1,500   1,700    2,400
Total                   5,600    7,000   9,000  10,800  12,800   33,200
Of Which
In Container Ships                        5,100   7,200   9,600   29,900
In Break Bulk Ships    5,600    7,000       900   3,600   3,200    3,300
Assumption: The average load per 20 ft box is 11 tons
Source: Consultant and Mission Estimates
June 1979



-88 -                                  ANNEX 1
Table 3
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Ship Traffic Forecast
Beat Estitmate
(in numbers)
1978    1979      1980      1981      1982     1983      1990
Rice Ships                   5        8        9         10        11        13       21
Grain Ships                  5        5        5          5         5         5         6
Mineral Ships               17       17       18         20        22        25        39
Container Ships              -       -        -          26        36        48      100
Reefers                      7       6         7          7        13        20       34
Break Bulk Ships           911     896       936        936      1007       978     1236
Subtotal                   945     932       975       1004      1094     1089      1436
Other Ships                520     513       536        552       604       600      790
TOTAL                     1465    1445      1511       1556      1698     1689      2226
Source:  Consultant and Mission Estimates
June 1979



- 89 -
ANNEX 2
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Proposed Reorganization of ANP
1.        Chart 2 describes the proposed new organization structure for ANP
and shows that a minimal number of changes to the current organization
(described in Chart 1) are suggested. The principal objectives in modifying
ANP's organization will be to:
(a) Remove responsibility for the supervision and coordination
of day-to-day management of ANP's main operating and
functional divisions from the President and Vice President.
(b) Substantially improve the overall effectiveness of ANP's
institutional planning effort.
(c) Substantially improve ANP's ability to analyze, define and
execute new investments.
(d) Reduce the overall number of personnel working in the
organization.
2.        The specific means by which these objectives will be achieved are:
(a) Appointment of a General Manager. Responsible for the day-to-day
management of ANP. This manager will have each of the functional
managers (Finance, Administration, Operations and Technical)
reporting to him, and, thus, the large majority (over 5,000) of
the people currently working for ANP will be under his authority.
As a result of this appointment, the President and Vice President
will have more time to allocate to the consideration of policy-
related issues. In addition, the pressure and responsibility
which falls on the various functional managers will be reduced.
(b) Creation of a Planning Unit. Responsible for overall physical
planning of the port and the related institutional and financial
planning of ANP. At present, ANP has a technical advisor who is
responsible for the planning effort, but, because of conflicting
demands on his time and a lack of coordinated support-staff effort,
real planning is almost non-existent. The Planning Unit is expected
to consist of a manager and four or five professional staff with
responsibility for (a) traffic and operating statistics and forecasts;
(b) long-range physical development planning for the port; (c) ANP's
annual budget and reviewing performance against budget targets;
(d) long range financial plans and objectives; (e) costing analyses
of operations and tariff proposals; and (f) institutional analyses,
covering staffing, personnel reductions and salaries.



- 90 -
ANNEX 2
(c) Creation of a Project Implementation Unit. At present, the
Technical Advisor is responsible for defining investment
priorities and making decisions in consultation with the
Technical Manager of ANP. While this has been possible for
the small investment program of recent years, in view of the
large size of the forthcoming investment program and the
greater technical demands that will be placed on ANP because of
the Bank's investment procedure requirements, it is proposed
that a separate implementation unit be created which will be
responsible for the details of carrying out the major items
in the investment program. The Technical Manager will then
focus on technical problems relating to the operation of
existing equipment and the improvement of the workshop and
dredging functions in ANP. The Project Implementation Unit is
expected to consist of about eight professional staff who will
be responsible for: (a) preparing technical plans and specifi-
cations; (b) preparing bidding documents; (c) preparing bid
analyses, awarding of contracts and administering contracts;
(d) supervising contract implementation and controlling of
suppliers' and contractors' performance; and (e) maintaining
documentation on expenditures for and implementation of all
investment program components.
(d)  Setting of Staff Reduction Targets.  ANP has indicated that it
recognizes the fact that there are too many people working for
the institution and that it wishes to make staff reductions.
Since the economic justification for some of the project components
(e.g., the tugs) is based on cost reductions, which principally
arise from staffing reductions, it is apparent that targets will
have to be included in the loan documents. On a larger scale,
however, it is important that the institution be streamlined.
Since many of the staff are at or above retirement age, the oppor-
tunity exists to make these reductions in the course of the
retirement program. For the purposes of financial forecasting
and discussion with ANP, the following targets were developed.



- 91 -
ANNEX 2
Number of Staff
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Marine                 428      400     350      275      200      200      200      200
Dredging               300      300      300     300      300      300      300      300
Maintenance          1,263   1,250   1,200   1,150   1,100   1,050   1,050   1,050
Cargo Handling      2,411   2,320   2,340   2,185   1,860   1,490   1,490   1,490
Administration       1,451   1,470   1,270   1,250   1,200   1,100   1,100   1,100
River Ports            320      320     300      300      300      300      300      300
Shipping                40       40      40       40       40       40       40      40
TOTAL                6,213   6,100   5,800   5,500   5,000   4,500   4,500   4,500
September 1979



- 92 -
ANNEX 3
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Outline of Proposed Technical Assistance to ANP
A.   Advisory Services by Individually Recruited Experts
Advisors would be retained by ANP to work within the organization,
either in support of existing permanent staff or in temporary assignments
to positions for which permanent staff have not yet been recruited. In
both cases, the tasks of the advisors would be to provide professional
services in their respective fields of expertise in support of the 1978-1982
Development Program for the port of Montevideo and to train ANP staff in
the performance of these services. A tentative list of 12 advisors contemplated
for specific Departments within ANP is as follows:.
Department             Advisors                   Estimated Man-Years
Planning
Transport Economist                    1.0
Statistical Data Collection            1.0
Physical Port Planning                 2.0
Subtotal             4.0
Program
Implementation
Senior Civil Engineer (Deputy to
Department Director)                 2.0
Soils Specialist                       1.0
Port Structures Specialist             1.5
Contract Documentation Specialist      1.5
Construction Supervision Specialist   3.0
Subtotal             9.0
Finance
Cost Analyst                           1.0
Accounting Advisor/Systems Analyst    2.0
Subtotal             3.0
Cargo Operations
Cargo Operations Manager               1.0
Training Specialist                    1.0
Subtotal             2.0
Total               18.0



- 93 -
ANNEX 3
B.   Assistance by Specialist Teams
The following specialized services to ANP will be performed by
firms retained under contract with ANP:
(i)   For Alterations to Muelle de Escala and Acquisition of
Two Bridge Cranes
Soil borings and laboratory tests at westerly end of Muelle de
Escala; on the basis of ANP's detailed functional analyses of container and
bulk cargo operations within the new terminal complex, prepare the following:
detailed engineering designs for wharf widening and strengthening; preparation
of performance specifications and clearance diagrams for bridge cranes and
yard handling equipment; preparation of contract documents; preparation of
final engineers' cost estimate; prequalification of contractors; assistance
in evaluation of bids; and assistance in supervision of construction and
inspection of equipment.
(ii)   For Acquisition of Marine Equipment
Preparation of performance specifications and contract documents
for new dredges and tugs; prequalification of contractors; assistance in
evaluation of bids; inspection during manufacture; and assistance in final
acceptance on delivery.
(iii)   Survey of Subsurface Conditions in Montevideo Bay
Review and analysis of all existing subsurface information;
preparation and execution of a program of borings and laboratory tests;
compilation of a comprehensive report on subsurface conditions.
December 1979



- 94 -
ANNEX 4
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Assumptions on Which Financial Forecasts Are Based
A.   Traffic
Cargo traffic inputs were based on figures provided in Tables 2.3
and 2.4 of the appraisal report. Ship forecasts were based on projections
discussed in Annex 1, which reflected a steady increase in average cargo
handled from 1,700 ton/vessel in 1978 to 1,910 ton/vessel in 1985. For the
purpose of forecasting revenue generation, only vessels of some size, i.e.,
especially plus break-bulk, were used. In actual fact, the smaller vessels
will generate some revenue, and, to this extent, the forecast is conservative.
Traffic Summary
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Imports (000 Tons)      1,105   1,045   1,092   1,144   1,197   1,255   1,315   1,370
Exports (000 Tons)        435      498     522      547      604     665      730     800
Total Cargo (000 Tons) 1,540   1,543   1,614   1,691   1,801   1,920   2,045   2,170
Vessels                   945      932      975   1,004   1,090   1,089   1,100   1,136
B.   Tariffs
For 1979, current tariffs were assumed to continue, and a total
of 20% of charges were forecast to be subject to exemptions granted by the
Government.



- 95 -
ANNEX 4
From 1980 onward, the following tariffs were forecast to apply:
Average 1978 Equivalent
(US Currency)
Port Dues                                  $700/vessel
Towage                                     $750/movement
Berthage                                   $0.5/meter/day
Cargo Handling - Imports                   $ 15/ton
Cargo Handling - Exports                   $  5/ton
Storage                                    $0.25/ton/day
Container Wharf                            $2.50/ton
All tariffs were assumed to increase at the annual rate of general
inflation, i.e., 8% per year.  Ships were assumed to average 160 meters in
length and to average three days in port, and 20% of import cargo was fore-
cast to be stored for an average of 20 days.
The charge of the container wharf is shown as a special additional
fee of US$2.50/ton, in 1978 currency, applied to all cargo passing through the
facility to recover the additional benefits and costs of the special equipment
available. In actual fact, this benefit may be recovered through a combination
of both ship and cargo directed tariffs.
C.   Other Revenues
Revenues from other charges at Montevideo, river ports and shipping
services were forecast to increase at the rate of inflation. Additional
revenues were forecast to be earned from use of the 4,000 hp tug amounting to
US$500,000/year starting in 1982.
D.   Costs
The total labor force was assumed to decrease along the lines of the
targets in Annex 2. Wage rates were forecast to increase by 10% per year in
US$ terms for all years except 1982 and 1983, for which they were forecast to
increase by 20%.
Materials and other costs were forecast to increase at the rate of
growth of traffic in real terms, i.e., a multiple of traffic and inflation
in actual terms.



- 96 -
ANNEX 4
E.   Debt Costs
The terms of borrowing from the World Bank are assumed to be
15 years, with three years of grace at an interest rate of 7.9%. Other
borrowing consists of the financing arranged for the Spanish cranes, US$6.2
million for 10 years with two years of grace at 8% interest. Other local
borrowing is assumed to be for 10 years at 10% interest, with two years of
grace.
F.   Depreciation
Depreciation on new investment is based on straight line amortization
with the following useful lives:
Civil Works                 50 years
Cranes                      15 years
Handling Equipment          10 years
Tugs                        15 years
Dredge                      25 years
G.   Balance Sheet Items
Accounts receivable forecast to be 10% of revenue.
Accounts payable forecast to be 10% of expenses.
Inventories forecast to be 10% of material costs.
June 1979



- 97 -
ANNEX 5
URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. Integrated Transport Study of Uruguay - SOTECNI (1978)
2. History of Montevideo Port Development (1939)
3. ANP Statutes and By-Laws
4. Conclave: 1978-1982 Port Investment Program (1977)
5. Analysis of Future Port Traffic - Raanan (1979)
6. Cargo Operations and Equipment Analysis - Bestevaar (1979)
7. Tug Operations Analysis - Coleman (1979)
8. Dredge Operations Analysis - Bryant (1979)
9. ANP Financial Analysis - Raanan (1979)
10. Economic Evaluation of Modernization Programme - Economics and
Planning Services Ltd., August 1979
December 1979






URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Present Oganization of ANP
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
PRESIDENT
TECHNICAL AND
PLANNING ADVISER
SECRETAR 
LEGAL STAF F      INERA A                       ANR                 SEURTY
ST                           ~~~~~~~~RECORDS        SCRT
FINANCE MANAGER  ADMINISTRATIVE                         OPERATIONS
FINANCE \ilANAGER  ,  MANAGER                         MANAGER
l~ ~~~DIO                     PESO                     CALNERN         GEEA                CAG HANDJLING 1
ADVISOR  PERSONNEL    ~   ~     ICSASERVICESTUG SERVICES                                                       SHIP OPERATIOS
REVNUS          ECR_                  SNGMNTTCNIA                                         IVRPRTS
ADMINISTRATION   lNl SERING                                            VVWORKSHOPS             DREDGING          MARINE REPAIR
World Bank - 20583



URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
Proposed Organization of ANP
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
PRESIDENT1
INTERNAL        SECURITY            AND
AUDIT                            RECORDS
PROJECT
|MONTIVIDEO PORTl
FINANCE         ADMINISTRATION         OPERATIONS            TECHN
MANAGER             MANAGER              MANAGER              MA
World Bank - 20584



URUGUAY
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar Year:      1979                  1980                          1981                         1982
Project Item                                           -       -      -       -
3      4       1      2       3      4       1      2       3      4      1       2      3       4
1. CONTAINER & BULK CARGO TERMINAL
Two Bridge Cranes                                                l**nEl l113      _      _I _  _  _  _  _  *   _  _  _  _  _  _
Yard Handling Equipment                                          tttl  tttt91        . ._
Alteration to Wharf                                               t t3 s t tltIt
2. GENERAL CARGO HANDLING EQUIPMENT
Mobile, Land-based Equipment                                      MINIMle  lill                 _              _
Pavement and Shed Alterations                                    s        t
3. HARBOR TUGS                                                                                             -             - _ _      m
4. DREDGING EQUIPMENT
New D-8 (Grab Bucket) and
New D-9 (Suction-Hopper)                                                                         - _                        -        - _
5. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO ANP
Advisory Services to ANP Departments                      _          *           m t  I _    _Uni ui .                         . __*__
Port Area Sub-surface and Hydraulic Investigations                              MI MI _    _Ita_    I_               *      I
Study of Port Development Beyond 1982                                                                 [        moIIE m ji  m           Ul |
LEGEND:
*IIIUIli Engineering, Preparation of Contract Documentsand Prequalification of Contractors
Advertising, Bidding Period, Contract Approval and Award
u _       in    Equipment Manufacturing, Delivery and Installation Period (including phased delivery of equipment units)
tt A  e r    Construction Period for Civil Works
I M _    Technical Assistance                                                                                                               World Bank -20585






EaSt 4 l;fX 4   > 7--:-    0Xe ;  
F~~~~~ ,~ ,-?y /A*SIC
URUGUA TRANSPQT S
~~~~~~ /~~~~~~~R 
'~~~~~~                             /' X"                          7   1   ; f    X 
I   -
0- *;;    g2 tA PE5 " >..                  \;    e   d     2       I {      e  s               J     L    41p
'4\                                               - -                             - - - - -
t~~~~~~~~~~                                   ,-7.  If r    ,-A'                                                  4    01e ermt  t s9lm
J.,4 E,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,~  *,  ** 
f   it  =t  7   \   orar-mmomnsm>5oundres                                   f                   -  -'--,
'     ,_ 55,, R'S55,
'5JOG LOMTER
}   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1






ANP T -  . min  AreN   T  E a                                I  D   E
T'.
;MONTEVIDEO PC)RT PROJECT' 
Bay of Montevideo and Approoches                                         ' 
ANP Terminal Area                                                    i
3,50,                                                    R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o.ig.t,.. Chio ... s                         _g 2      3e 5U
. =  Moan Streets and Avenues
Built -up Areos
>~~~~~~~~                                                                           ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U G U A Y      
0      Soo    1000    IS00    2000                                                                           <'24 
METERS                                                                                            t5
56, 14'                                        56 }12                  l         ,,',   tontesldeo   +   Cyt






IBRD 14369R
}   ,A   S  Th       bff   tff'b zs                                             '                                                                                                                                          i I~ ~~~~~~ -SEPlTEMBER 19791
SOUTH  AMERICA                -        a                BrA,                                                                                                                                                                                                       S '  E v  =   9
{~~     ~       ~     ~    ~~ --  Wad * SraaBr,    no sFaI ka    a
LB f~ >  u EpRA 21L E X  brra.oaa     'r,a                                            iURUGUAY                                                                                                                                                -,
MONTEVIDEO PORT PROJECT
1-   2    ;~~   /XATLANTIC    ia.vaaifTlrreos.'att    r
/ U R U GUAiY  g      OCtA         *ni s  aaa saloaaf saatRaaHaHS                                                                               Port P ort Facilities                                                                                                  36
-Y     < . - - -- -' - -T - ----
X                                                             ,                                                                                                                                              , .   / /           /              lC l~~~~~~  /   /N
19781902 DEVELOPMENT P'ROGRAM                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /
PROPOSED PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1   /t
| s Naw Canst,  ctaa                                                                                     A;UTILLAKY  BR EAKWATERY
t t ~~~~New P-vig A,..   L 2 
Bz $f/i   Bvlie Ro e R,ataAoI,6                                                                   I                                                                 ,            N                                             -      -=i /e- -I t
1978-1982 DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                         '  -      --.-t ;                   -                      -      | |  '                                                                     23                /
ir   Ea1iOT      CED   BB BANK                                                                      Hrb AN'                                                                               S   o     BN|
j      Edg, of N.. Lc.rd - hFd A-R f., C.Tti..  Yord                                                                                     -----------------lHWi fEZ  _/g t
>   [  ,/////X/,  sruerurs ta be Rrcodeleel orNew Constocion   I 15mlI N N E R                                        H A R B O R                                                    1-nr                                /    /7  
EXISTINGa        EE                                      X  N W HARF  W                                       BA S IN    I                                      bA  S IN   2 .4
00=Bithw -,         aa.,                         R   WID ESIG
DENING ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I/
/             ~~~~CONTAINER                                                                                                                                  00                 /~ PAE 
OUTER HARBOR             N                                  AREA
ANCHORAGE AREA                                                                             =
RANFELA        FRANKLIN          DELAN           BOOER
-15511             ~~~0 5E IEO 150 200 250-
METERS



