OFFIIAL LOAN NUMBER 1798 UR
1 DOCUMNTS
Loan Agreement
(Montevideo Port Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE PUERTOS
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1798 UR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE PUERTOS (herein-
after called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ANP Law" means Law No. 5495 of July 21, 1916, and
Regulatory Decree of July 6, 1917, of the Guarantor under which
the Borrower was established, as amended by Law No. 8988 of
April 25, 1933, and the law of January 15, 1948, of the Guarantor;
(b) "1978-1982 Development Program" means the investment
program of the Borrower described in Schedule 5 to this Agree-
ment; and
(c) "fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year, which
begins on January 1 and ends on December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Section 3.06 and Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, engineering, financial and port management
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-3-
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon the Bor-
rower's obligations under paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall:
(i) carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project in accordance
with a work program satisfactory to the Bank, such program to be
completed by July 1, 1980; and (ii) put into effect such work
program in a manner and according to a timetable satisfactory to
the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall (i) not later than May 1, 1980
staff its Planning and Project Implementation Units as provided
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and (ii) maintain thereafter such
units with the staff and functions described in such Schedule.
(d) As part of the execution of Part E of the Project,
the Borrower shall:
(i) by January 1, 1981 prepare a plan, satisfactory
to the Bank, of selective salary increases aimed at
attracting and retaining suitably qualified per-
sonnel;
(ii) by January 1, 1981 prepare a plan satisfactory to
the Bank for an overall staff reduction aimed at
diminishing the Borrower's personnel to about 4,500
employees by December 31, 1983; and
(iii) carry out such plans in a manner and according to a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
(e) The Borrower shall cause the studies included in Part F
of the Project to be carried out under terms of reference and
according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project and especially in the preparation of
detailed design for all civil works and of performance-type
specifications for major items of equipment included in the
Project, their procurement, the supervision of construction and of
equipment manufacture, the Borrower shall employ experts whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part
E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, substantially as
detailed in Schedule 7 to this Agreement, experts whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) Until the Project is completed, the Borrower shall not
later than September 30 of each year, furnish to the Bank for
comment a copy of its budget proposal for the following fiscal
year.
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the


﻿-5-
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures
to ensure that the execution and operation of the Project are
carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall prepare a detailed func-
tional analysis, satisfactory to the Bank, of container and bulk
cargo operations within its new container terminal complex at the
Muelle de Escala, before inviting bids for the work:s and equipment
included under Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.02. The Borroier shall at all times conduct its
business under competent and experienced management and carry on
its operations in accordance with appropriate financial, engineer-
ing and port practices and with the assistance of adequate,
competent and experienced staff.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its
installations, equipment and other property, and from time to time
make all necessary renewals thereof and repairs thereto, in
accordance with appropriate engineering and port practices.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall not, without the prior
consent of the Bank, sell or otherwise dispose of any of its
assets, except as specified in paragraph (b) below, as required to
dispose of obsolete equipment or as otherwise required in the
ordinary course of its business.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) by July 1, 1980 prepare plans,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the selective retirement of existing
tugs and dredges, and (ii) carry out such programs in a manner and
according to timetables satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall carry out the 1978-1982
Development Program with due diligence and efficiency and, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, complete such program by Decem-
ber 31, 1982.
Section 4.06. Starting on April 1, 1980, the Borrower shall
prepare quarterly reports, satisfactory to the Bank, on the
Borrower's financial condition. All financial data in such reports
shall be prepared on a current value basis.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable tc the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bark shall
otherwise agree (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and


﻿-7-
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain,
or take all necessary steps to establish and maintain, such
tariffs for the provision of its port services and facilities as
shall be necessary for: (i) achieving working ratios not exceeding
81% in 1980, 76% in 1981, 74% in 1982, 70% in 1983, 69% in 1984,
and 68% in 1985 and thereafter; and (ii) ensuring that at all
times the tariff for each service covers at least the marginal
costs for providing such service.
(b) The Borrower shall not exempt users of the port services
and facilities from the payment of port tariffs.
(c) For purposes of this Section "working ratio" means
expenses (i.e. operating expenses before depreciation and interest
payments) divided by operating revenues.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not increase its capital expenditures above
those included in the 1978-1982 Development Program by more than
the equivalent of one million dollars ($1,000,000) during each
fiscal year.
Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless its net cash genera-
tion from operations for the fiscal year immediately preceding
such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to
such incurrence, whichever is larger, shall be not less than
1.75 times the maximum debt service requirements for any succeed-
ing fiscal year on all debt including the debt to be incurred.


﻿-8-
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt of the Borrower,
including debt assumed or guaranteed by the Bor-
rower, maturing by its terms more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(A) under a contract, loan contract or agreement
(including the Loan Agreement) or other
instrument providing for such debt, on the
date of execution of such loan contract,
agreement or other instrument; and
(B) under a Guarantee Agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee is
executed;
(iii) the term "net cash generation from operations"
means gross revenues from all sources, adjusted to
take account of the level of tariffs of the Bor-
rower in effect at the time of the incurrence of
debt even though they were not in effect during the
fiscal year or twelve-month period to which such
revenues relate, less all operating, administrative
and overhead expenses including adequate main-
tenance and taxes (if any), but before deduction
for depreciation and debt service requirements;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization of, and interest
and other charges on, debt; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms
of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes
of servicing such debt or, if such other currency
is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that
will be reasonably determined by the Bank.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the ANP law has been amended, suspended or abrogated so
as to affect materially and adversely the carrying out or oper-
ation of the Project or the financial position of the Borrower;
and
(b) the 1978-1982 Development Program has been amended
without the Bank's consent, except as provided for in Section
5.05.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any events specified in
paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the Borrower has established and put into effect-a
tariff system satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) that the Guarantor has abrogated all exemptions from
port tariffs now granted to users of port services and facilities;
and
(c) a decree has been enacted granting the Borrower the
necessary authorization from the Guarantor to carry out all
procurement required for the Project, on the terms and conditions
required hereunder.
Section 7.02. The date 'G' 4>    /      9 ', is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Administraci6n Nacional de Puertos
Rambla 25 de Agosto de 1825 NO 160
Montevideo,
Uruguay
Cable address:                     Telex:
NAVEANP                            UY 755
Montevideo
Uruguay
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 11 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE PUERTOS
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation
of amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 2,000,000        40%
(2) Equipment                  40,100,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
92% of local ex-
penditures
(3) Consulting services         2,000,000        80%
and technical assis-
tance
(4) Unallocated                 5,900,000
TOTAL       50,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied


﻿- 13 -
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's 1978-1982 Development
Program. The main objectives of the Project are: (i) increasing
the operating efficiency and throughput capacity of existing
terminal facilities in the port of Montevideo by means of the
introduction of modern handling methods and equipment; and (ii)
planning for expansion needed after 1982.
The Project includes:
Part A:
Converting the existing open wharf known as "Muelle de
Escala" into a modern container and bulk cargo terminal, includ-
ing:
(1) widening and strengthening of the existing wharf struc-
ture; constructing crane rail supports for the full
length of the wharf, and concrete paving over the
wharf's surface and adjacent existing land areas;
and
(2) acquiring, installing and operating of: (a) two rail-
mounted cranes of about 35-ton lifting capacity,
equipped for operation with grab-buckets, container
spreaders and cargo hooks; and (b) yard handling equip-
ment for dry bulk cargo and container operations.
Part B:
Introducing palletized handling methods and an indirect
transfer system based on utilizing transit sheds for interim
storage to replace the existing system of direct transfer between
ships and trucks or freight cars, including:
(1) acquiring and operating about 60 forklift trucks,
8 mobile cranes and 5,000 pallets;
(2) structural alterations to six existing multi-story
transit sheds; and


﻿- 15 -
(3) yard paving around three existing single-story transit
sheds.
Part C:
Acquiring and operating dredging equipment, including:
(1) (a) a diesel-powered grab-bucket dredge of about 6 m3
capacity; (b) three split-hull scows (each of about 700
m3 capacity); and (c) a tug of about 700-hp for towing
the scows; and
(2) a diesel-powered, trailing suction-hopper dredge of
about 2,500 to 3,000 m3 bin storage capacity.
Part D:
Acquiring and operating two harbor tugs of standard design
for assistance to ocean vessels in berthing and unberthing
operations equipped with standard fire-fighting equipment,
including:
(1) a tug of about 2,400-hp designed for operations in
relatively sheltered harbor and channel areas; and
(2) a tug of about 4,000-hp designed for seagoing operations
and equipped with oil spill pollution control equipment.
Part E:
Strengthening the organization and technical and financial
operations of the Borrower.
Part F:
(1) A survey of subsurface conditions in the Montevideo
Bay area.
(2) Preparing a long-range development plan for the port of
Montevideo.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning August 1, 1983
through   August 1, 1994                   2,085,000
On February 1, 1995                             2,045,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.60%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                     3.20%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.85%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                              6.90%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                              7.95%


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such *notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   (i) Bidders for the works included in Parts A, B, C and D
of the Project shall be prequalified as described in
paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines; and
(ii) Goods to be procured in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph I above may be tendered separately, but
contracts of each type of equipment shall be grouped to
the extent necessary to attract foreign suppliers and
ensure standardization of the type of equipment con-
cerned.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;


﻿- 19 -
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on goods, evaluated
on a c.i.f. basis, and sales and similar taxes (applicable to
finished domestic products) evaluated on an ex-factory basis,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Uruguay may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Uruguay if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Uruguay equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 20 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for civil works for Part B of the Project may be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Such
procedures shall include the prequalification of bidders.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said


﻿- 21 -
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the experts referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said experts and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price or by $100,000, whichever is


﻿- 22 -
less, the Borrower shall inform the Bank of the proposed modifica-
tion, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons therefor.
The Bank, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent
with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Development Program of the Borrower 1978-1982
Cost Estimates
(in US$ million)
Non-Project   Project
Program Components                     Items       Items    Total
CONTAINER AND BULK
CARGO TERMINAL
New Land Area and Paving near
Muelle de Escala                      8.2          -        -
Two Cranes                               -          8.2       -
Yard Handling Equipment                             1.0       -
Alterations to Wharf                     -          5.4       -
Subtotal                           8.2        14.6     22.8
GENERAL CARGO
HANDLING EQUIPMENT
14 Cranes procured
from Spain                            6.9          -        -
Dock Structure
Strengthening                         3.2          -        -
Mobile, land-based
Equipment                              -          4.1       -
Pavement and Shed
Alterations                            -          1.4       -
Subtotal                          10.1         5.5     15.6
HARBOR TUGS (Two)                        -          7.8      7.8
DREDGING EQUIPMENT
New D-8 (Grab Bucket) and
Auxiliary Equipment                    -          8.5       -
New D-9 (Suction-Hopper)                 -         19.3       -
Subtotal                            -         27.8     27.8


﻿- 24 -
Cost Estimates
(in US$ million)
Non-Project   Project
Program Components                      Items       Items    Total
REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSES                  5.3          -       5.3
FISHING PIER                             2.2          -       2.2
MISCELLANEOUS
OTHER ITEMS                              3.0         2.5*     5.5
GRAND TOTAL                        28.8        58.2     87.0
*    Proposed technical assistance to ANP.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 6
Functions and Staffing of the Planning
and Project Implementation Units
The Planning Unit: The Unit will be responsible for the
overall physical planning of the port and the related institu-
tional and financial planning of the Borrower. The Planning Unit
will consist of a manager and not less than four professional
staff, including a budget officer. The Unit will have responsi-
bility for:
(a) traffic and operating statistics and forecasts;
(b) long-range physical development planning for the port;
(c) directing and establishing general levels for the
Borrower's annual operating budget, defining the Bor-
rower's annual investment budget and reviewing per-
formance against budget targets;
(d) long range financial plans and objectives;
(e) costing analyses of operations and tariff proposals;
and
(f) institutional analyses, covering staffing, personnel
reductions and the preparation of salary recommendations
including selective salary increases where necessary.
The Project Implementation Unit: The Unit will be respon-
sible for the details of carrying out the major items in the
investment program. The Unit will consist of not less than eight
professional staff who will be responsible for:
(a) preparing of technical plans and specifications;
(b) preparing of bidding documents;
(c) preparing bid analyses, awarding of contracts and
administering contracts;
(d) supervising contract execution and controlliiig of
suppliers' and contractors' performance; and
(e) maintaining documentation on expenditures for all
investment program components.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 7
Specialists to be Zmployed
by the Borrower under
Part E of the Project
Estimated
Department                  Specialists               Person-Years
Planning           Transport Economist                    1.0
Statistical Data Collection
Specialist                           1.0
Physical Port Planning Specialist      2.0
Sub-total    4.0
Program
Implementation     Senior Civil Engineer (Deputy to
Department Director)                 2.0
Soils Specialist                       1.0
Port Structures Specialist             1.5
Contract Documentation Specialist      1.5
Construction Supervision Specialist    3.0
Sub-total    9.0
Finance            Cost Analyst                           1.0
Accounting Advisor/Systems Analyst     2.0
Sub-total    3.0
Cargo Operations   Cargo Operations Manager               1.0
Training Specialist                    1.0
Sub-total    2.0
TOTAL       18.0


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this     -L..day of    M     198 0.
FOR SECRETARY


