Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4544-COB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US070 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
June 24, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =          CFA Franc (CFAF) 1/
US$1.00              =          CFAF 314
CFAF 1 million       =          US$3,185
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                     =         3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (mZn)            =         10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (km)                =         0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)                  0.38 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                  =         2.47 acres
I metric ton (mton)             =         2.205 pounds (lb)
1 hectoliter (hl)               =         26.4 gallons (gal)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
11   The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF1 to
CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OmCILw USE ONLY
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE 0ONGO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN A1iD PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                 The People's Republic of the Congo
Loan Amount:              US$70 million equivalent
Terms:                    Payable over 17 years, including 4 years of grace
at the standard variable rate.
Program Description:      The proposed loan would support the initiation of
a medium-term structural adjustment program aimed
at restoring a better balance between the public
and private sectors in order to overcome the
present severe fiscal and economic imbalances and
to foster growth of the non-oil sectors. The
first phase of the adjustment program for 1987-88
focuses on: (i) reinforcing controls on public
expenditures and elaborating sectoral strategies
to guide future policies and investments;
(ii) instituting a sound framework for management
of the petroleum sector; (iii) price
liberalization and incentive policies to encourage
competition and private sector development;
(iv) enhancing public enterprise (PE) autonomy and
establishing greater accountability; (v) starting
a program of enterprise rehabilitation and
rationalization through privatizations and
liquidations; and (vi) devising a program of the
PE sector's financial restructuring and measures
to instill financial discipline. Through the
formulation of sectoral strategies, the program
will also advance the preparation of the next
phase of reform.
Program Benefits:         The policy reforms are expected to begin a long
process of adjustment to: (i) improve public
sector resource management; (ii) reduce policy
distortions and stimulate competition; (iii)
encourage private sector development;
(iv) enhance parastatal performance and increase
financial self-sufficiency; and (v) strengthen the
institutional base for sustaining adjustment in
the PE sector.
Program Risks:            In light of the dramatic economic downturn in 1986
due to the drop in petroleum revenues, the Congo
faces formidable challenges which add to the
This document has a restricted distribution and l  -ecipients only in the performance
of their ofllcial duties. Its contents may not otherwis.  without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
operation's risks. The extent and depth of the
required reforms, following years of abundant
resources, will necessitate a fundamental
reorientation of policies, attitudes and habits.
The country's interwoven socio-political struc-
tures, the potential lack of private response and
the shallowness of non-oil productive sectors
combined with week administrative capacities
contribute to the risks that the program may not
be fully realized. Much of what the Congo
attempts to do will, furthermore, depend on its
future returns from petroleum and the support of
the financial community. Several elements in the
adjustment program, however, reduce these risks.
The international financial community has thus far
shown a strong conmmitment to support the Congo in
this difficult period, while the petroleum sector,
if soundly managed, provides a vital, long term
underpinning of the economy. Stringent fiscal
measures, especially to cut public investments,
have already been taken. Steps at internal
consensus-building and strong program management
are also critical features incorporated in the
program's design. Complementary assistance under
the parallel Public Enterprise Institutional
Development Project and the ongoing Second
Technical Assistance Project will, tnoreover,
strengthen the Government's capability to carry
out the program as envisaged.
Financing Plan:           IBRD            US$70 million equivalent
Istimated Disbursement:  The loan would be disbursed in two tranches, eash
of US$35 million equivalent, the first upon
effectiveness and the second after a performance
review to be held about six to nine months after
effectiveness.
Apnraisal ReUort:         This is a combined President's and Appraisal
Report. The parallel Public Enterprise
Institutional Development Project is presented in
the Memorandum of the President, P-4543-COB, dated
June 24, 1987.
Map:                      IBRD 13959R2



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PFOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the  following report and  recommendation on a  proposed
loan in an amount of US$70 million equivalent to the People's Republic of
the Congo to support the Government's Structural Adjustment Program.
Interest on the loan would be at the standard variable rate. The loan
would be amortized over 17 years including 4 years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Macroeconomic Context
Background
2.        A small,  oil-producing  country  with a  per  capita  income  of
US$1,020 in 1985, Congo is in the midst of a major economic and financial
crisis. It is the typical case of an oil-producing economy which could not
resist excessive public  spending and borrowing.   With heavy debt  service
commitments coming due, the 1986 collapse in oil prices has exacerbated an
already difficult financial situation.
3.        Congo has a population of 1.9 million, concentrated in the south,
particularly in  the  cities of  Brazzaville  and Pointe-Noire.   Prior  to
independence in 1960, Brazzaville was the administrative capital of the
French Federation of Equatorial African States. It was also the center for
the     region's     major      transport      network,     including      the
Pointe-Noire-Brazzaville railroad and a river transport system extending to
neighboring countries. As a result, Congo developed into the most promi-
nent service-oriented economy in Africa (60 percent of GDP). The post
independence period required the Congo to adjust to its reduced role in the
region. Forestry became the most dynamic sector of the economy, contribu-
ting about 60 percent of  total exports in 1965.   In the late 19608,  how-
ever, the country chose a development strategy emphasizing government
control over major economic acti-ities, giving rise to a large public
enterprise sector and a strong bias towards direct state intervention. Oil
exploitation started in the 1960s and became a dominant activity in the
19709 with two major oil price increases. In 1985, oil accounted for about
half of  GDP, 90  percent of  exports and  nearly 70  percent of  budgetary
receipts.  The resultant oil rent enabled Government for years to subsidize
a large part of the population through public employment and free delivery
of social services.
4.        Since the early 1970s, the pace of economic activity in the Congo
has been determined by international oil prices. The two price increases
in 1973 and 1979 led to a considerable acceleration of GDP growth, to 9
percent per annum on average in 1974-75 and 14 percent in 1980-82. Each of



- 2 -
these two periods was followed by a contraction of economic activity.
While earlier contractions were relatively mild, the recent one is expected
to be severe throughout the  period 1987-89.  The boom-and-b;.st years  have
affected not only the oil sector but also the non-oil sectors closely
linked to government  spending, such as  construction and services.   Other
sectors have, at best, stagnated during the period 1974-85.
5.        The Government's oil  revenues have been  highly volatile.   They
increased more than five times itn 1973-74 and six times during 1979-82.
They are now expected to shrink to one-seventh of the peak level, from CFAF
225 billion in 1985 to CFAF 31 billion in 1987. Despite growing oil
revenues the  Government  incurred  budget deficits  during  1979-84.   The
expansion in the country's export revenues from US$279 million in 1975 to
US$1,220 million in 1985 financed a parallel expansion of imports from
US$324 million to US$1,157 million, contributing to a persistent deficit in
the current account balance through the 1975-85 period. Relative to GDP,
the current account deficit averaged some 12 percent during 1982-85.
External public debt doubled from 1977 to 1981, reaching US$1.3 billion (64
percent of GDP) at end-1981 and continued to increase to US$1.8 billion (83
percent of GDP) at end-1985. Debt service as a percentage of exports
jumped from 12 percent in 1981 to 26 percent in 1985 and is estimated to
have reached 36 percent in 1986 after rescheduling. At end-1985, two
thirds of the debt were owed to bilateral creditors (37 percent to Paris
Club)  and  17   percent  each   to  commercial   banks  and   multilateral
organizations.
The Current Crisis
6.        High oil revenues encouraged  false hopes and wasteful  policies.
Deficits in the Government's budget and balance of payments during a period
of rapidly expanding revenues indicated unfounded optimism about the
economy's future. Beginning with the softening oil prices in 1984-85, the
Government experienced liquidity difficulties which caused its arrears on
foreign debt to exceed CFAF 40 billion by mid-1985 and domestic arrears to
reach CFAF 25 billion by the end of 1985. Not anticipating the full extent
of the fall in oil prices, the Government was not able to slow its spending
fast enough and therefore resorted to using arrears and its remaining
access to domestic and foreign capital markets to finance its expenditures
through the end of 1985. Fortunately, the drop in revenues was somewhat
cushioned by payment mechanisms for petroleum royalties and by the
depreciation of the French franc vis-a-vis the US dollar. The result was
that oil revenues actually increased marginally to about CFAF 225 million
in 1985 from CFAF 212 billion in 1984. This false sense of security only
aggravated the situation in 1986 when oil prices received by the Government
fell to  less  than  US$7.5 per  barrel  in  July 1986.   Oil  revenues  to
Government in 1986 only amounted to CFAF 115 billion, reflecting as well
the recent appreciation of the French franc. Estimates for 1987 total no
more than CFAF 33 billion, or only 22 percent of 1985 revenues, with public
sector revenues in 1987 down by 55 percent from their 1985 levels.



7.        The  emerging  liquidity  crisis  quickly  spilled  over  to  the
domestic banking system which, in the early 1980s, had expanded quickly due
mainly to buoyant demand from the private sector and public enterprises.
Total domestic credit grew at over 30 percent annually from 1980 to 1984
reaching CFAF 195 billion as of the ead of 1984. About one-third of this
total  was  attributable   to  public  enterprises   many  of  which   were
encountering losses. The pace of credit expansion abruptly slowed in 1985
with domestic credit only 2 percent higher than in 1984, totalling CFAF 198
billion at year end. Confronted with sizeable non-performing PE loans,
amounting to CFAF 38 billion (equivalent to 120 percent of bank share
capital and reserves), the commercial banks relied heavily on advances from
the central bank (BEAC) and their foreign correspondents. In 1986, credit
demand again stagnated owing to the severe recession, except that by
Government which used domestic credit to finance its budgetary deficit.
However, faced with little growth in deposits and limits on their recourse
to additional advances, the commercial banks now lack the ability to
weather the rise in bad debts that is likely to accompany the current
recession.
B. Structural Problems
8.        Looking  beyond  the  immediate   financial  crisis,  the   major
challenges for the Congo in the years ahead are to adjust its expenditure
pattern to one commensurate with its likely oil revenues and to establish a
pattern of sustainable economic growth particularly in the non-oil sectors.
This will prove a difficult task, in light of the limitations inherent in
the  size  and   configuration  of   the  Congolese   economy,  the   heavy
concentration of wealth in the public sector, the strongly engrained
history of state intervention, and the deficiencies im the policy framework
that have become entrenched over the past years of oil-based prosperity.
The major structural problems lie in four areas.
Inefficient Public Resource Management
9.        During the oil  booms, Government captured  directly the  ensuing
oil rents and used them to finance a public expenditure program as the
primary instrument for distributing these rents and for generating growth.
Implicit in the Congo's resource problems was the difficulty in managing
its petroleum wealth: in principle this wealth should have been preserved
as much as possible in the form of savings for productive investment while
public consumption should have been kept as close as possible to the level
of  non-oil  revenues,  especially  since  the  latter  are  not   entirely
independent of petroleum movements. This has not been the case in the past
oil boom, with current expenditure exceeding non-oil revenues by almost 60
percent in _984 at a time when the Congo's oil revenues were peaking.
10        Serious inefficiencies  developed  in resource  allocation,  with
public investment becoming biased towards infrastructure and construction
projects,  while   directly   productive   investments,   particularly   in
agriculture, suffered:   about one-third  of  planned investments  for  the
period 1982-86 was allocated to construction and transportation, about 11



- 4 -
percent to administrative investments, mostly new government buildings, and
26 percent to other infrastructure such as energy and communications. This
heavy bias toward infrastructure was based on the argument that the
inadequacy of existing infrastructure was at the root of the poor past
performance of the productive sectors, particularly agriculture. Moreover,
perceived socio-political exigencies led to the opening up of the interior
through  the  building  of  1,300   km  of  re-bituminized  roads  in   the
northern-most part of the country. While pursuing worthwhile goals, these
investments unfortunately were often ill-designed and overly expensive,
making their economic justification questionable. Thus, many investments
undertaken in this period, such as the ongoing investments for the
Etoumbi-Kunda palm oil plantation, the hospital at Brazzaville and the
Epena-Impfondo road, now constitute a legacy of misdirected investments.
11.       Over the  1980-04 period,  current expenditures  increased at  32
percent per annum, only part of which was due to the expansion of the civil
service. Even though the salary bill increased at a rate of 17 percent
annually, its share of total expenditures actually dropped from 57 percent
in 1979  to about  34 percent  in 1984.   Payments for  goods and  services
expanded at more than 45 percent per annum, not counting the growth rate of
unpaid bills at the end of each year, due to the growing requirements for
material as new ministerial buildings were completed. Goods and services
thus went from 10 percent of total current expenditure in 1979 to 19
percent by 1984. Because of the Congo's rising debt, the share of interest
in total current expenditures also rose rapidly, going from about 8 percent
of the total in 1979 to 18 percent in 1984 and 21 percent in 1985.
12.       Another element  of the  growing  expenditure imbalance  was  the
increase in transfers and subsidies which grew from CFAP 11 billion in 1979
to ClAP 37 billion in 1984. Besides subsidies to parastatals, which peaked
in 1982 at CFAF 12.5 billion, the major part of this increase was the
scholarship till, an area in which the Government pursued a generous policy
of financing every secondary and university student. The corollary of this
is the guarantee by the Government to employ all graduates not finding a
job elsewhere.   The  net  result  was  growth  in  the  number  of  public
employees, from 4,000 at Independence in 1960 to 52,000 in 1984, excluding
public enterprises and the military.   The CIAF 11 billion scholarship  and
education bill in 1984 was bigger than the value of production of forestry
and fisheries combined.   This schc.arship policy  together with  automatic
employment did little to achieve a match between the skills available and
the actual needs of the country since only a small percentage of graduates
has the technical education required.
Large and Inefficient Parastatal Sector.
13.       Public  enterprises,   which  have   been  Government's   favored
instrument for development, grew rapidly during the oil boom in the 1970s
and early  19809.   There are  now  about  90 wholly-owned  PEs  and  mixed
enterprises with majority government ownership.   In addition to the  basic
utilities for water (SNDE), electricity (SNE), pcrt, rail and river
transport (ATC), post and telecommunications (ONPT), PEs are involved in



- 5 -
virtually all sectors, including urban and air transport, manufacturing,
marketing  boards,  petroleum   distribution  (Hydro-Congo)  and   refining
(CORAW), forestry, and agriculture. In terms of employment, the PE sector
accounts for over 20 percent (35,000) of total modern sector employment
(roughly 185,000) with the remainder employed in public administration
(70,000) and the private sector (80,000). Seven key enterprises -- the
public utilities (SNE, SNDE, A?C, ONPT), Hydro-Congo and CORAF and the
sugar refinery (SUCO) -- dominate the sector, representing about half of
total  revenues,  employment   and  value-added.   The   30  largest   Pls,
furthermore, account for over 90 percent of sector revenue, value-added and
employment.
14.       The performance of the  PE sector has  been characterized by  low
productivity, high losses, rising debt burden and growing illiquidity with
a concurrent burden on public finances and the balance of payments and with
a negative effect on the country's economic growth. Despite rapid revenue
growth, losses (before subsidies) escalated from CFAF 8 billion in 1981 to
CFAP 25 billion in 1985. The biggest losses in 1985 were encountered by
SUCO (CFAF 3.0 billion), ATC (CFAF 1.9 billion), OPFACOM (CFAP 4.2
billion), CIDOLOU (CFAF 2.0 billion) and SCBO (ClAP 2.3 billion) l/ .
After the peak in 1982, Government subsidies have since been reduced to
CFAP 6.8 billion (US$21 million) on average over 1983-85 as a result of the
Government's liquidity crisis.
15.       The difficulties facing the Congo's PE sector, cited below,  have
been exacerbated by the  availability of oil  wealth which permit.ed  these
inefficiencies to persists (a) Size and viability of the sector. Many PEs
have been created without adequate analysis of their economic and financial
viability and have operated with multiple and ill-defined objectives,
inadequate  infrastructure,   limited   markets  and   unsuitable   capital
equipment. Furthermore, they have been required to undertake uneconomic
investments or provide non-viable services without adequate compensation
from the Government; (b) Lack of financial discioline. The lack of timely
payment of bills and debts on the part of PEs and the Government has
resulted in the build-up of cross-debts which exacerbates the illiquidity
crisis in many PEs. Government itself is a heavy debtor to PEs, mainly for
public services (water,  electricity, telecommunicstion and  fuel) and  its
net arrears  debt owed  to PEs was about  CFAF 15  billion in  1985 ;  (c)
Inappropriate  macroeconomic  policies.    The  lack   of  incentives   has
discouraged PEs from  operating in a  commercial manner.  Artificially  low
prices for goods and extensive import controls were maintained, despite
enterprise losses, while monopoly privileges promoted PE inefficiency and
discouraged private operators. Government's policy to provide employment
to all graduates in the public sector, combined with the lack of autonomy
I/   OFNACOM is responsible for import and distribution of consumer goods;
CIDOLOU is the cement company and SCBO is a joint venture integrated
forestry company.



-6-
in personnel matters, has resulted in overstaffing estimated at 30 percent
of the total Pr labor force, while qualified personnel are often lacking.
Generous collective bargaining agreements inflated operating costs while
good  managers   were  not   adequately  rewarded   for  performance;   (d)
Institutional weaknesses. While Government tends to intervene excessively
in day to day management of PEs, especially through a priori controls of
expenditures and procurement, it is poorly equipped to set clear targets
for  PEs,   evaluate   investments,  and   monitor   performance.   Complex
institutional arrangements promoted by the Congo's political system impose
constraints on PE management bt involving the trade union and the political
party in operational decisions such as personnel appointments and staff
discipline; and (e)  Poor enterprise management.   PE performance has  been
impaired by the lack of qualified personnel and of basic accounting and
information systems.   This  has  hindered the  development  of  enterprise
plans, budgets and financial statements, the proper costing of goods and
services, the timely and accurate billing of customers, and proper
maintenance systems.
Urban Services Bias
16.       Even before Independence, the structure of the Congolese  economy
was marked by an unusually high share of GDP originating in the service
sector, particularly public administration, explained by the fact that
Brazzaville served as the administrative capital. Estimates available for
1963 indicate that, at that time, the share of Government in GDP (25
percent) was larger than that of agriculture and forestry combined (23
percent),  while  trade,  transport,  communications  and  other   services
accounted for 34 percent.  This structural bias was further strengthened in
the decade that followed: by 1972 the contribution of agriculture and
forestry fell to 17 percent while that of services other than Government
increased to 42 percent, reflecting a stagnation of agriculture and
forestry and a growth of services at a rate of about 6 percent per annum.
With the advent of o!l production in the 19709, the concentration in
services became even more dramatic as government spending grew, fuelling a
parallel expansion of construction and commercial activities.   Oil-related
services  also  multiplied,  leaving   the  non-oil  productive   sectors--
especially forestry and agriculture--lagging considerably behind their
potential.
17.       As a result of this structural  bias, the Congo has today one  of
the highest levels of urbanization in West Africa, estimated at about 45
percent, with a concomitant disparity in urban and rural levels of income.
The terms of trade are heavily in favor of the urban areas and the relative
price structure favors non-tradeables over tradeables. Agricultural income
per capita today is only 15 percent of the national average and, even
within this, it is three times as high in the favored southern belt than in
the remoter regions of the north. Accompanying this degree of urbanization
is a  high  cost structure,   reflecting  the service  orientation  of  the
economy, the demand push on labor costs caused by public sector spending,
and more recently the appreciation of the CFA franc vis-&-vis the US
dollar. Wages and salaries are thought to typically exceed those of



Cameroon, but lag behind  those of Gabon.   Strong demand for  construction
workers contributed to a reduction of the rural labor force: construction
labor costs rose by 48 percent between 1982-84. Moreover, because of the
high costs, export opportunities are few and many industries now operating
in the Congo are encountering difficulties.
Lack of Private Initiatives and Incentives
18.       Development of the  Congo's private sector,  largely confined  to
rural subsistence farming (cassava) and small-holders producing coffee and
cocoa, on the one hand, and modern commercial services reliant on the
markets offered by Government and the petroleum sector, on the other, has
been a secondary consideration. In line with the country's political
orientation, the private sector has at best been ignored or tolerated.
This neglect and erosion of incentives due to distortions in relative
prices and the appreciation of the CFA franc have resulted in a lack of
dynamism in the productive sectors exaggerating the existing bias towards
the service sectors in urban centers. Guaranteed public sector employment,
the abundance and generosity of government contracts, and the high domestic
cost structure have all contributed to the relative weakness of private
initiative in productive activities.
19.       Adding to the  general level  of inefficiencies  in the  economy,
existing administrative controls and regulations have done much to hamper
private  initiative.   In  the  agricultural  sector,  where   considerable
untapped production possibilities exist, the fixing of producer prices at
low levels relative to international prices has discouraged farmers. Those
that do produce, moreover, were deterred by the existence of inefficient
public marketing boards  that had  monopoly powers.   Cheap imports,  often
supported by official pricing policies to keep consumer food stuffs at low
prices in the urban areas, further discouraged local agricultural and
livestock production.   The existence  of inefficient,  large-scale  public
enterprises in agro-processing and plantation-type activities (livestock,
chicken, sugar, fishing, palm oil, etc.) which benefit from government
subsidies and other advantages reduces the scope for private investment.
20.       In the forestry  sector, once  the Congo's  most dynamic  sector,
greater private activity exists, principally foreign investors in joint
ventures witn Government.   However, even these  endeavors suffer from  the
inefficiency in the parastatal monopolies responsible for marketing output
and evacuating timber.  Facilities such as permission to buy back a portion
of their own output from the state marketing monopoly, OCB, have provided
an efficient outlet for private forestry  companies at least part of  their
total sales.  All forestry corporations must also endure the high cost of a
long and  multimodal  transport  system, managed  by  the  state  transport
company, ATC, to reach the port at Pointe-Noire.  These costs, in part  the
payment for direct transport services and in part the opportunity cost  due
to the time needed to evacuate timber, combined with the high value for the
CFA franc, place the Congolese forestry industry at a considerable cost
disadvantage.



21.       Relative to  the  public  enterprise  sector,  modern  industrial
enterprise owned by private interests are rare and limited mainly to
companies producing textiles, beer, soft drinks and shoes (the last of
which is now closed). No estimate of the private sector's share of total
industrial value added is available. The total for industry -- both public
and private --  remains small at  about 10 percent  of non-oil GDP.   There
are, nevertheless, small and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs) in the
informal sector.   These activities  exist largely  without direct  support
from Government or access to credit.
22.       Industrial  activities  in  the  private  sector  generally   are
constrained by deficiencies in the legal system which continues to apply an
outdated commercial code;   controls on creating  enterprises that  require
prior approval by Government; measures that make recruitment of personnel
through the central public manpower agency, ONEMO, mandatory; very generous
labor agreements and limits to managers' authority to fire personnel
without government  approval;  and  controls  on  ex-factory  prices.   The
existence of numerous ineffective public monopolies -- computer services,
freight forwarding and transit, animal feed, meat import and distribution,
flour, cement, petroleum, etc. -- which provide vital inputs needed by
private operators only add to the constraints faced by those in the private
sector.
C. The Government's Response
23.       Motivated by  the liquidity  crisis confronted  in mid-1985,  the
Government approved an adjustment program of its own design in September
1985 to address both its financial situation and the economy's structural
deficiencies. This program was, unfortunately, rapidly overtaken by the
even more dramatic fall in petroleum prices in early 1986 and did not have
an opportunity to take effect before more stringent measures became
necessary. As its financial position rapidly deteriorated in 1986, the
Government moved to stabilize its financial situation and to strengthen its
adjustment initiatives.  These  efforts were  supported by  an IMF  Standby
which started at the end of August, 1986. Reductions of the overall budget
deficit were achieved through substantial cuts in capital expenditures,
from CFAP 162 billion in 1985 to CFAF 66 billion in 1986, combined with a
reduction in current expenditurei of 11 percent to CFAF 207 billion.
Resolution of the external debt overhang received utmost priority, with
immediate relief provided by international creditors: (i) at a meeting of
the Paris Club on July 18, 1986, bilateral creditors agreed to reschedule
95 percent of principal and interest falling due up to March 31, 1988,
including arrears, over ten years with four years of grace; and (ii) on
October 16, 1986, the Congolese Government and the London Club Steering
Committee agreed on a rescheduling arrangement covering 100 percent of
principal payments due from January 1, 1986 to December 31, 1988.
Stabilization Efforts
24.       The IMF Standby backs these creditor agreements and provides  the
underpinning for the Congo's medium-term adjustment program. Approved on



- 9 -
July  15,  1986,   the  20-month  program  emphasizes  restrictive   demand
management policies combined with measures aimed at increasing supply
responses in the non-oil sectors and reform of the Congo's large,
inefficient parastatal sector as well as fiscal and other measures.
Non-oil budget receipts  were to be  increased through reducing  exemptions
from customs duties and domestic taxes, adding taxes on certain imports,
and introducing comprehensive tax reform. Other measures were taken in the
area of pricing, monopolies, public enterprises, and recruitment policies.
As of end 1986, there were ulippages in the implementation of some elements
of the program, notably budgetary and current account deficits and credit
which exceeded program targets. Nevertheless, significant adjustments were
made in  1986 and  these efforts  are  being pursued  in 1987.   Under  the
Standby, the Government will continue to restrain demand, in particular, by
bringing public investment expenditures down to CPAF 33.5 billion and
freezing the public sector wage bill at CFAF 79.2 billion.
Preparinm for Adiustmnt
25.       With these stabilization  arrangements in  plece, the  Government
has now shifted its attention to addressing the more fundamental questions
of long-term adjustment. A major contributing factor in the preparation of
the new adjustment program was the creation of a high-level Steering Group
mandated by the President to chart the course of the Congo's economic
recovery. This group is comprised of the Prime Minister, the Ministers of
Finance and Plan, and two chief advisors to the President and is supported
at the technical level by an  ad-hoc Secretariat of senior officials.   The
Bank-financed First Technical Assistance Project (Ln 2285-COB), followed
recently by the  Second Technical  Assistance Project  (Ln 2753-COB),  have
provided the logistical support and the outside expertise and advice needed
for the work of this committee. This assistance will continue for the
implementation phase.  As  a result, preparation  and initial reforms  were
undertaken in many areas in 1985-86: sectoral studies were carried out to
identify opportunities for diversification outside of the oil sector;
detailed studies were undertaken of the forestry sector; strategic reviews
were carried out of 80 public enterprises as the basis for decisions on the
fate of these enterprises and to propose measures for their restructuring;
a review was done on the situation of monopolies in the Congo; general
procurement regulations were reviewed; PR cross-debt studies were done; and
a start was made on updating debt management records.
26.       On the PE side, Government efforts at reform predate the  1985-86
liquidity crisis, as Government had five years earlier recognized the high
cost to the economy of its inefficient PE sector. At that time, a process
of financial restructuring was undertaken, involving a settlement of
enterprise debts and the infusion of fresh working capital. However, these
measures  provided  only  a  respite   which,  not  being  accompanied   by
fundamental changes, was  quickly dissipated.  More  profound reforms  were
subsequently initiated vith the support of technical advisors under the
Bank's First Technical Assistance Project. The ten most important PEs were
targeted for changes in their level of managerial autonomy, coupled with
the introduction of performance contracts ("contrats de programme") and



- 10-
reinforcement of oversight functions through the National Management Center
(CENAGES) and the Prime Minister's Office. Government also created a new
agency, the National Accounting Commission (CNC), to audit PE accounts and
to develop accounting norms and reporting standards, as well as develop
local auditing capabilities. Gains were also made on the development of a
PE data base. These early measures have since been complemented with the
preparation  of  a  comprehensive   PE  restructuring  program  which   the
Government approved at the end of December 1986.
D. Assessment and Prospects
27.       Despite the progress  achieved in stabilizing  the economy  since
early 1986, the task of restructuring the Congolese economy has just begun.
This will  prove  a  long  and  difficult  effort.   Some  non-oil  sectors
(construction,  transportation,  and  services)  directly  linked  to   the
oil-related prosperity now suffer from the sharp contraction of public
expenditures. So long as oil revenues remain depressed, it will be
difficult  for  those  sectors  to  bounce  back.   Other  non-oil  sectors
(agriculture and forestry) have experienced long neglect in an adverse
environment. While fiscal stabilization is expected to shift emphasis from
public sector to private initiative, much more is needed to stimulate the
development of productive activities, especially in agriculture, forestry,
and related industries. Moreover, the regulatory framework established
during almost two decades of direct state involvement must be dismantled
and replaced by policies to provide appropriate incentives for the private
sector.
28.       Liberalization must now  be pursued  in earnest.   So far,  gross
inefficiencies in the trade of coffee, cocoa, and basic consumer goods have
been removed by eliminating monopoly powers granted to state-marketing
boards.   Producer  prices  for  cocoa,  coffee,  and  other   agricultural
commodities have been increased. Further adjustments are still needed to
push the reforms forward, building upon what has already been achieved and
to redress the relative prices of tradeable and non-tradeable goods in
favor of the former.
29.       Yet the development of the tradeable goods sectors is constrained
at present as a result of the recent appreciation of the CFA franc
vis-a-vis the dollar.   While the ongoing  fiscal stabilization program  is
expected to bring about a relative decline in labor remuneration, this
would be only a partial solution to the overvaluation problem. In order to
restore competitiveness of its products in the domestic and international
markets, the Congo must reorient its trade and labor policies so as to
reduce the domestic cost of products and thereby improve the real exchange
rate while shifting government investment policies and improving incentives
towards the production of tradeables.
30.       These latter considerations are at  the heart of the  medium-term
adjustment program for the Congo. The challenge is greatest in the areas
of production and trade where policies to redress the rural-urban terms of
trade and to improve the relative price of tradeables versus non-tradeables



- 11 -
are critical for the resumption of sustained growth and for rural urban
disparities to reduce over the medium-term. Moreover, the extent of the
external debt overhang is bound to hamper efforts as scarce resources, even
with additional rescheduling, are diverted to meet debt service. This, in
L,rn, will test the will of Government as measures are put in place and
results follow slowly. Thus, there is a compounded challenge,which will
mean that the structural adjustment program must be supported by a
medium-term financial  strategy.   Cognizant  of  these  difficulties,  the
international financial community will need to support the Corgo during the
adjustment process. The program which follows incorporates the measures
required to meet this twin challenge.
PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Objectives and Approach
31.       The aim of the Congo's medium-term adjustment program is ' adopt
a policy framework to: (i) reestablish macro-economic equilibria; v        lay
the foundation for sustained growth with particular emphasis on ei.rancing
opportunities in the rural sector; (iii) diversify productive activities
especially in agriculture; and (iv) restore international creditworthiness.
This must be done within the context of the Congo's medium-term financial
prospects. Specifically, the program would aim to:
(i) reform the policy environment in order to stimulate private
sector initiatives, especially in agriculture and related
activitie', increase the role of market forces in the
allocation of resources, and direct government support to
extension services and infrastructure maintenance;
(ii) retrench the public sector towards those areas in which it
has a comparative advantage and shift productive activities
and employment generation to the private sector;
(iii) ensure that public sector expenditures are in line with
resources while concurrently promoting greater efficiency of
public sector intervention; and
(iv) utilize oil revenues, first, to alleviate the excessive
burden of the public debt; second, to improve the efficiency
of existing infrastructure; and third, to ereate a reserve
for future generations.
32.       The changes implicit  in attaining these  goals are profound  and
will undoubtedly require a protracted period of time to be fully realized.
A phased approach is therefore required. The Government has identified as
the focus of this first phase of adjustment a number of priorities. First,
it must follow its stabilization measures with a medium-term framework for
guiding public  resource  management.   The  second  main  priority  is  to
restructure the PE sector to reduce its size and financial burden on the



- 12 -
State. This would entail concerted action in those key parastatals that
provide vital  public  services.   The  third priority  is  to  remove  the
constraining factors to private sector activities, since the private sector
must take up the slack in the economy resulting from the public sector's
retrenchment. The Government must also adopt contingency measures to
ensure that any future vindfall in oil revenues is used wisely and provide
a framework for future development of the petroleum sector. Finally, since
this first phase will only be the beginning of a long process of
adjustment, the strategy includes preparation of additional measures to
extend and intensify the process, especially at the sectoral level.
B. The Adjustment Program (1987-88)
33.       Going beyond its first efforts at stabilization and adjustment in
1985 and 1986, the Government proposes a number of complementary measures
that  will,  together   with  its  stabilization   program,  constitute   a
comprehensive medium-term program  of  policy reform.   The first phase  of
this program is embodied in the Government's Letter of Development Policy
1987-1988 (Annex III), the key features of which are summarized below.
1.   Public Sector Resource Management
34.       An essential  feature of  the Congo's  adjustment program  is  to
realign public  expenditures  with  its likely  resources,  which  are  not
projected to return to the boom levels of the past. Even if that were to
be the case  over the medium-term,  the difficulty in  anticipating such  a
reoccurrence combined with the weight of the Congo's outstanding debt
burden are such that a financially conservative approach aimed at restoring
Congo's creditworthiness over the medium-term is the only prudent option.
In addition, greater care must be taken to avoid investment mistakes and
misallocation of resources which frequently occurred in the past.
35.       Macroeconomic  Framework.   To  this  end,  the  Government  will
prepare a medium-term economic  framework   (1988-92) by  September  1987.
These projections will provide the background for the preparation of a
three-year "esquisses financi6res" (draft financing plan), by September
1987, and a three-year rolling investment plan by October 1987 covering
1988-90, the first year of which would be the investment budget for 1988.
In turn, these will form the basis for the 1988 'Loi de Finances",
including the programmed authorizations for public investment, to be
approved before December 1987. In order to reinforce its macroeconomic and
financial coordination, the Government will ensure that adequate funding
and appropriate skill levels will be available in the Projection and
Programming Directorates of the Ministry of Plan with the support of the
ongoing Second Technical Assistance Project. Finally to ensure that the
structural adjustment program remain fully on track, the Government will
assign clear responsibilities to the concerned units in the Ministries of
Plan and Finance, as described in its Letter of Development Policy, and
will ensure overall coordination under the Steering Group which is charged
with overseeing the Congo's macroeconomic adjustment effort.



- 13 -
36.       Investments.  Within the context of its macroeconomic  framework,
the Congo will limit the public investment budget to CFAF 33.5 billion in
1987 and direct two-thirds of expenditures in future years to productive
activities with 25 percent to agriculture in order to ensure that this
sector does not encounter a decline in its relative share of public
investment. Infrastructure investments will emphasize rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing infrastructure, especially roads and the breakwater
at Pointe-Noire. The Government realizes that the present flexibility of
its public investment program over the next year is limited by existing
commitments to several large, unjustified investments that are still not
complete, particularly in the case of the hospital in Brazzaville and the
Epena-Impfondo road.   During this  transition  period, the  Government  is
committed to completing these projects by 1988, within agreed financial
envelopes.   Moreover,  with  respect  to   the  oil  palm  plantation   at
Etoumbi-Kunda, the Government has stopped physical works completely,
suspended payment on related promissory notes and engaged an independent
auditor to  evaluate  the  technical  and financial  results  to  date.   A
strategy will then be prepared for the development of the oil palm sector
by December 1987.
37.       Current Expenditures and Revenues.  The Government's objective is
to limit progressively current expenditures to the level of non-oil
revenues. As compared to 47 percent in 1985 and 58 percent in 1986,
targets of meeting 70 percent of current expenditures with the non-oil
revenue in 1987 and 80 percent in 1988 have been set. To increase non-oil
revenue generation, Government intends to launch an intensive effort at tar
and customs duty collection starting July 1987. It also intends to raise
taxes on domestic turnover, duty on certain imports, and levy new taxes on
cement, electricity, and petroleum windfall profits as part of its
stabilization effort as agreed with the Fund. More broadly based reform of
taxation will be instituted as of January 1988, based on studies already
completed.
38.       Civil Service  Reform.  Government  intends to  reduce  personnel
costs as a share of non-oil revenues, from 70 percent in 1985-86 to 68
percent in 1987  with the objective  of reaching 63  percent by 1990.   Net
recruitment has already dropped by 40 percent in 1986 and promotions and
organization structures have been frozen.   Government now plans to  freeze
the size of the civil service at the level of June 1987 and to limit
additional personnel expenditures to no more than CPAF 1 for each CPAF 1
saved. By September 1987, restrictions on voluntary departures from the
civil service will also be lifted and Government will apply measures for
early retirement.  By  December 1987,  an audit of  civil servants  payroll
records and scholarships will be undertaken in order to take actions to
eliminate fraudulent  payments.   Before  October  1987,  a  plan  will  be
prepared and resources mobilized to carry out a review of personnel in  the
civil service to rationalize the number of posts and their level of
qualifications; implementation of this plan will start in January 1988 with
a selected  number  of ministries.   Several  other specific  measures  are
proposed to improve personnel management, for implementation between
September 1987  and  early 1988,  including  proposals for  incentives  for



- 14 -
voluntary departure, creation of an interest subsidy scheme for those
leaving the public sector, procedures to reduce job rotation within the
civil service, preparation of a five-year plan on the number of students to
be enrolled in courses leading to public employment, fixing of ceilings on
personnel benefits, etc., as set out in the Letter of Development Policy.
39.       Debt ManaRement.   Sount. debt  management is  a prerequisite  for
restoring creditworthiness.   To  this  end, Government  will  improve  its
monitoring of external debt, keep current on its debt service within the
terms of new rescheduling for the period 1988-91 that it will seek with the
Paris Club and London Club creditors in 1988, and take action to avoid
further det0rioration in the structure of its debt. Preparation for the
next round of rescheduling will be completed by March 1988. As agreed with
the Fund, new debt will be curbed, restricting loans that do not have a
substantial grant element and terms of less than 12 years. There would be
no borrowing on terms of less than six years; short-term credits of less
than one year would be obtained for trade financing purposes only and will
not be  used  to  finance investments.   Borrowings  related  to  petroleum
production would be exempt from these restrictions. Government's recourse
to the domestic banking system in 1987 will be limited to CFAF 8 billion,
including CFAF 6.5  billion to  reduce domestic arrears.   The issuance  of
guarantees by Government will continue to be governed by the policy adopted
in September 1986 that restricts guarantees to support capital expenditures
only, requires approval by the Minister of Finance, and matches loan terms
to the nature of the investment. Guarantees are furthermore to be included
in Government's  overall  financing  plan.   GovernmEnt  will  also  pursue
improvements to the administration of debt information in order to comply
with the World Bank's debt reporting requirements under the Debtor
Reporting System and wlll make timely submission of standard debt reports
covering both direct government and public enterprise debt.
2.   Petroleum Resource Management
40.       The continuing  single  most  important feature  of  the  Congo's
economy is the petroleum sector. Accounting for 46 percent of GDP in 1985,
this sector is expected to continue to dominate the economy even with
diversification efforts, its share of GDP only dropping to 38 percent by
1998. Based on Bank projections for oil prices, value-added in the oil
sector is expected to remain steady over the medium term, its relative
weight in the economy and exports dropping gradually. Besides the extreme
vulnerability to petroleum price movements, the pace at which oil reserves
are depleted and the level of investment directed at exploration remain
decisive factors in the Government's long-term development strategy.   From
a technical point of view, Congo has oil reserves to produce at the present
levels for at least the next decade. However, since the rate of production
is largely determined by the prevailing and expected level of oil prices,
extra effort at promotion is needed in a time of depressed prices to see
that investment interest is maintained.
41.       Petroleum   Development.    The   Government   has   begun    the
implementation of an oil policy to increase the number of prospecting



- 15 -
companies,  and  ultimately,  the  number  of  oil  operators.   Under  the
adjustment program, Government will extend this process by reviewing by
March 1988 its mining laws ("code minier") as the framework for the fiscal
and legal arrangements as leases expire and new ones are negotiated with
private petroleum operators.   Other measures  will be  taken to  stimulate
exploration  activities  in  the  "Cuvet       region,  first,  by   updating
aeromagnometric surveys and, second, by having these results reviewed by an
exploration specialist by December 1987.
42.       Domestic Refining  and Marketing.   While dwarfed  in  comparison
with the export market for crude oil, the Congo's domestic petroleum market
ensures the supply and distribution of refined products locally. Two key
parastatal corporations exist in this sector -- Hydro-Congo which has the
monopoly  of  distribution  and  CORAF,   a mixed  enterprise,  which   is
responsible for refining. To improve domestic distribution, Hydro-Congo's
monopoly on  retail  distribution  has  already  been  abandoned.   CORAF's
operating costs will be reviewed before November 1988, at which time the
present contract expires with a view to revising those arrangements which
are now based on a cost-plus formula. In the meantime, efforts will be
directed under CORAF's action plan to reduce costs (para 61). In addition,
given the obvious need to generate public revenues and considering that
retail petroleum prices have been kept unchanged while crude oil prices
dropped sharply since 1985, a clear and transparent price structure on
refined products will be adopted by March 1988. The share of sales taxes
in that price structure will be increased and any windfall profits accruing
to Hydro-Congo and CORAF will be taxed.
43.       Petroleum Reserve Fund.   The final feature  of the  Government's
policy towards the petroleum sector is to create a petroleum reserve fund,
as a special budgetary account to absorb any excess petroleum revenues over
and above that anticipated in the lesquisses financi&res" and "Loi de
Finances". These funds will be used in descending order of priority to pay
off  any  arrears,  reduce  outstanding  debt,  and  finance   economically
justified investments, unless an overriding argument in managing the
Congo's external debt points towards not reducing existing debt levels.
These excess petroleum revenues, nevertheless, will not be used for public
consumption. A specific proposal for the operation of the reserve fund
will be made no later than December 1987 and it will come into effect by
July 1988.
3.   Public Enterprise Reform
44.       The Government's PE  reform program  is the beginning  of a  long
process  of  deregulating  and  dismantling  the  intricate  controls   and
inefficient structures that now exist in the public sector while instilling
a sense of responsibility and accountability on the part of PE managers.
The rationalization of the existing stock of enterprises is essential to
reduce the sector to more manageable limits while ensuring that the
provision of vital public services is improved. Within this framework, the
adjustment program seeks, first, to apply immediate restraint measures to
the sector and, second, to proceed in redressing the operations of seven



- 16 -
priority enterprises which provide vital public services and represent a
significant  weight  in   Government's  holdings.    The  parallel   Public
Enterprise Institutional Development project will assist Government to
implement the various reform cited below.
45.       Sector  Rationalization.    Based  on   diagnostic  studies   and
extensive consultation with all groups concerned -- PE management, trade
unions, the political party, and the supervising ministries -- Government's
portfolio of enterprises has been classified into four categories as shown
in Annex IV and summarized below:
(a)  Enterprises to  be  Rehabilitated.  Seven  strategic  enterprises
(SNE, SNDE, ATC, ONPT, SUCO, Hydro-Congo and CORAF) are to remain
in majority or full government ownership and will undergo major
rehabilitation programs to restore their viability. Three others
(LINACONGO (air  transport),  CIDOL0U (cement),  and  SFAC  (wood
processing)) will undergo rehabilitation at a later stage.
(b)  Enterprises to Olerate in a Commercial Environment.   Thirty-five
less significant enterprises that are currently or potentially
profitable will keep their present government ownership but will
operate under  competitive  conditions.   This  means  that:  (a)
pricing, procurement and staffing procedures will be revised to
grant PEs more autonomy; (b) all operating and investment
subsidies will be eliminated; and (c) measures will be taken to
reduce staff and  improve productivity.   The diagnostic  studies
for these enterprises proposed the specific steps needed to
restructure their operations in order for these enterprises to
become financially viable.
(c)  Enterprises  to  be   Privatized.   Four   enterprises  will   be
completely sold off, twelve enterprises will be offered for
majority ownership to the private sector and nine enterprises
will be managed by private interests who will bear the operating
risk even though ownership will remain public (through management
contracts or leasing). Privatization will be conducted on a best
effort basis; if, after all possibilities have been exhausted and
no private investor has been found, these PEs will be liquidated.
Government expects to offer majority equity participation in
OFNACOM, IAD, COPEMAR and SCBO, minority interest in CIDOLOU, and
100 percent of  UAB, SOCOMB  and SIAW  to the  private sector  by
December 1987.
(d)  Enterprises to  be  Licuidated.  Eight  PEs  that are  both  non-
essential and non-viable will be liquidated, while one will be
integrated into the public administration. These enterprises are
to cease activities and liquidators for at least four of the
eight enterprises will be named as of June 1987.
The fate of six remaining enterprises is pending and decisions will be
taken by December 1987.



- 17 -
46.       Financial Restructuring.  A  study of  cross-debts accrued  among
the 25  main PEs  2/ as  of the  end of  1983 has  been completed.   As  an
extension of this process, Government is now carrying out a study of PE
debts expanded to include forty PEs, covering their debts with the State,
suppliers and banks accrued as of the end of 1985. These results will be
available by September 1987, and will form the basis for preparing a plan
to settle the priority debts of PEs to be liquidated and privatized and key
PEs to be rehabilitated.. This plan will be adopted and put into effect by
December 1987.
47.       Financial Discipline.  In order to  avoid the recurrence of  high
indebtedness, Government intends to institute measures so that greater
transparency of financial transactions will be put into place and more
financial  autonomy  and  responsibility  will  be  granted  to  PEs.    In
particular, to ensure proper use of public resources in the PE sector,
since the Government either provides financing or guarantees debts to PEs,
the process of incorporating the annual PE investment program, as part of
the overall public investment program, will be continued. Moreover, assets
financed by the State and currently used by PEs will be formally
transferred by July 1988 to the enterprises' balance sheets according to
terms and schedules agreed upon between the concerned parties. In line
with this transfer, investment planning and responsibility for servicing
any debts will rest in the hands of the PEe. To strengthen ex-post
controls, all PEs to be rehabilitated will be obliged to submit financial
statements for audit within six months after the end of the fiscal year,
starting with the 1987 accounts. For the 1986 accounts, all audits will be
done by December 1987. CNC's ongoing PE audit program will be continued,
with twenty PEs being audited each year.
48.       The Government will  also rationalize its  consumption of  public
services (water,  electricity, and  telephone).   First, in  preparing  its
annual current budget, Government will ensure that adequate allocations
are budgeted each year for these services starting in 1988. A system of
billings, based progressively on actual consumption by Government and local
administration instead of a flat rate, will be introduced at the same time
with  the  objective  of  billing  the  actual  cost  by  1989.   The  free
consumption allowed staff, Government officials, and others will be limited
as of the end of 1987 to a reduced number of beneficiaries subject to a
maximum ceiling per person. Furthermore, those free services provided at
Government's request will be incorporated in the budget provision paid by
Government starting in 1989. The suspension of services for delinquent
clients in the public sector beyond 120 days will be enforced.
21   ATC, ONPT, SNE, HYDRO-CONGO, CNPS, CCA, LINA-CONGO, SNDE, ARC,
CIDOLOU, SUCO, SNEB, SONATRAB, OCB, OFNACOM, OGB, PLASCO, SOVERCO,
SCBO, SOPROGI, SOCOPHAR, UTS, SOTEXCO, OCC, MAB.



_ 18 -
49.       Restructuring the Banking System.   Given the critical  financial
state of the banking system because of non-performing PE loans and the
general downturn in the economy, Government has already taken steps to
tighten credit controls. This effort is being continued through a banking
study, to be completed by October 1987, that will propose an action plan to
restructure the sector by December 1987.   This plan will include: (a)  new
bankiig regulations (credit ceilings, refinancing procedures, guarantee
requirements,  controls);  (b)  a   debt  settlement  plan   (rescheduling,
write-off) for debts owed to the domestic banks by PEs targeted for
liquidation, privatization or rehabilitation; (c) recapitalization and/or
restructuring of selected banks; and (d) steps to improve internal credit
procedures and management. These measures are to be implemented, starting
in 1988, in collaboration with the existing private partners to obtain
their support in recapitalizing and rehabilitating the banking system.   By
December 1987, Government will furthermore review the credit ceilings for
each PE.
50.       Staff Reduction and Personnel  Management.  While continuing  the
freeze on personnel expenses, each PE to be rehabilitated will carry out a
review of its staff by the end of 1987 and on this basis reduce staff as
needed in 1988-89. In addition, about 1600 layoffs of redundant personnel
in the remaining PEs will take place in 1987-88, as part of the
liquidation,  privatization   or   restructuring  of   those   enterprises.
Government will finance the severance payment of laid-off personnel in case
PEs have insufficient funds to do so. To complement these measures, the
Government will introduce, as of June 1988, new personnel statutes and
personnel management practices making a clear distinction between PEs and
the civil service, clarifying the status of PE employees seconded to the
civil service (and vice versa), emphasizing merit and performance criteria
and granting PE managers increased autonomy in the hiring and firing of
personnel. A CCCE financed study is already underway to revise compensation
systems in PEs with further assistance provided to each key PE to improve
its personnel management.
i1.       Legal and  Institutional Framework.   As a  prerequisite for  the
sector's rationalization, appropriate legislation will be approved by June
1987 to  allow  implementation  of the  divestiture  program.   Legislative
action pertaining to management contracts and leasing will be adopted by
December 1987.  Next, by the end of 1988, Government will carry out a major
review of the legal texts governing relations between the State and PEs and
the role and responsibilities of various controls and oversight agencies in
order to promote greater PE autonomy and accountability. This exercise
will involve, inter alia: (i) changing as appropriate the existing statutes
of PEs and mixed enterprises; (ii) rationalizing the role and composition
of the boards of directors, with the general principle that supervisory
ministers will not chair these boards; and (iii) appointing PE managers as
chairmen  of  all  three  enterprise  management  committees   (operations,
discipline and personnel). Based on specific proposals to be made by June
1987  for  adoption  by  December  1987,  management  autonomy   concerning
procurement will also be increased by raising the current ceiling for
contracts to be awarded by PEs instead of the Government's central



- 19 -
procurement agency, by having PE management sign contracts themselves and
by letting PEs award directly supply and operational contracts.
4. Rehabilitation of Key PEs
52.       In addition to the general PE reforms presented above, the  seven
PEs to be rehabilitated in this first phase (para 45(a)) will implemeat
separate rehabilitation programs, aimed at making needed structural and
operational improvements as part of  the overall adjustment program.   Some
rehabilitation activities have already started with donor financing -- CCCE
is financing activities within SNE, ATC, ONPT, and SUCO; ADB and EIB are
financing SNDE: French bilateral assistance  is provided to ATC; and,  with
Bank-financed PPFs,  support  was  provided  for  in  ONPT  and  SNDE.   In
addition, ongoing Bank-financed projects for ATC and Hydro-Congo provided
them with assistance. These actions will be continued and will include,
inter  alia,   measures   for   divestiture   of   non-viable   activities,
organizational reviews, billing and recovery improvements and strengthening
of the financial and accounting services. Government will also ensure that
each enterprise will adopt new tariff structures and levels based on
economic considerations (long-run marginal 3ists) as well as to achieve
financial self-sufficiency on the part of the enterprises. Staffing levels
will be reduced in each enterprise based on studies to be carried out. The
main components of these rehabilitation plans have been incorporated in
action plans, agreed between Government and each enterprise and reflected
in annual financial agreements to be signed between Government and each of
the seven key PEs by  December of each year.   In the first year,  however,
four will be signed  by December 1987 and  three by June 1988.   Assistance
for implementation will be provided under the parallel PE Institutional
Development Project as well as under other donor-financed projects.
53.       ATC.  ATC's operations comprising river transport, rail and port
services, are an essential part of the country's service-based economy and
improvements in its financial and operational performance are of the
highest priority. Cross-subsidization among passenger and freight services
as well as among transport branches, inadequate tariffs and poor collection
of receivables from other public enterprises and the State have hampered
ATC's attempts to improve. Management has equally suffered, resulting in
excessive staff, high operating costs and diffused decision-making.
54.       Measures to restructure  ATC's financial position  began in  1985
with the conversion of government debt to equity, short and medium-term
debt rescheduling in 1986-88, a 10 percent tariff increase in January 1987
and operating cost reductions at the end of 1986 including about 280 staff
layoffs, salary and  benefit cuts and  other cost-cutting measures.   These
are now starting to take effect with the target of achieving a working
ratio of  75  percent.   To  lay  the  basis  for  further  improvement,  a
reorganization study was also  started  in 1986.   These efforts  will  be
extended under ATC's action plan with: (i) a staff reduction plan by
December 1987; (ii) preparation of specific measures by December 1987 to
reduce receivables from the equivalent of six to three months of revenue
over  a  three-year  period;   (iii)  introduction  of new   decentralized



- 20 -
accounting, information and personnel management syatems in 1987-89; (iv) a
financial audit of river transport services by March 1988; and (v) a tariff
study by October 1988 and introduction of the new structure by December
1988. Moreover, the current reorganization study will be completed by
March 1988 which will lead to other future institutional changes. As part
of this, ATC will review its operations with a view to privatize selected
activities, prepare medium-term financial projections and set out a plan
for achieving financial equilibrium among ATC's different branches.
55.       ONPT.   Eztremely  poor  service   quality  and  poor   financial
management have prevented the National Post and Telecommunications Office
(ONPT), one of the largest and most important parastatals in the country,
from making a significant economic contribution. Heavily overstaffed and
with low staff morale, ONPT is now deeply in debt and does not have the
financial or human resources to arrest its decline. Its recovery is,
furthermore, constrained in several important ways: (i) management is
inefficient and support systems poorly developed; (ii) accounting is weak
and incomplete; and (iii) operating equipment has seriously deteriorated.
56.       To overcome these constraints, the Government has already put  in
place some reforms and, with support from the Bank and other donors,
notably CCCE, others are underway. However, much still remains to be done.
A review of the ongoing rehabilitation program is underway and an updated
program will be ready by December 1987, with specific measures to introduce
decentralized financial management and commercial accounting, improve
personnel management, and institute improved systems for billing, stock
management, work order  and maintenance.   ONPT will also:  (i) update  its
1985 and 1986 balance sheets by March 1988, based on fo;thcoming audit
recommendations; (ii) introduce decentralized financial management and
commercial accounting systems in 1988-89; (iii) carry out a tariff study
and examine the ways to establish financial equilibrium among ONPT's
different services by March 1988; and (iv) introduce new stock management,
work-order procedures, and maintenance  procedures by January 1988.   These
measures will set the stage for subsequently restructuring ONPT, with its
likely separation into three units (telecommunications, postal services,
and national savings bank).
57.        SNDE.  SNDE, the water distribution company, is in need of  major
physical, managerial and financial rehabilitation. Existing facilities and
networks are badly deteriorated and water losses are estimated at 40
percent. Half of installed meters are out of order, billing is late and
collection is not vigorously pursued, with the result that accounts
receivables represent  the equivalent  of about  20 months  of billing.   A
general lack of know-how and hence unsound managerial procedures result in
the absence of discipline, sound planning, and financial controls.
58.       To restore  efficiency  operations,  SNDE  will  concentrate  its
investment program, financed mainly by ADB and EIB, on rehabilitating the
Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire networks to reduce water losses to 25 percent.
Additional managerial and operational measures incorporated in SNDE's
action plan are: (i) improving bill collection by carrying out a customer



- 21 -
inventory and computerizing customer management by June 1988; (ii) carrying
out a tariff study by December 1987 as a basis to increase revenues so that
they may adequately cover operation and maintenance expenses, debt service
and make a reasonable contribution to investments; (iii) evaluating
personnel  and  preparing   a manpower   plan  by   December  1987;   (iv)
strengthening its internal audit unit by December 1987; (v) establishing
appropriate operations and  maintenance standards by  March 1988; and  (vi)
revising its subcont;.acting relationship with its subsidiary civil works
company by December 1987.
59.       SNE.  Responsible for electricity service in major centers, SNE's
performance has improved markedly in recent months thanks to rehabilitation
measures initiated in 1985-86: a customer inventory in Brazzaville which
increased billing rates and revenues dramatically, the computerization of
accounting systems  and  other  financial  management  improvements.   This
rehabilitation effort will be continued, with the support of CCCE, throughs
(i) implementation of a customer inventory in Pointe-Noire by December
1988; (ii) development of new customer management procedures by December
1987; (iii) elaboration of a manpower plan by December 1987; (iv)
completion of a tariff study by December 1987 which will lead to a new
tariff structure in 1988; (v) rehabilitation of the Moukoukouloua and Djou#
plants; and (vi) the switch to 20 kv transmission lines in the Brazzaville
and Pointe-Noire networks. The investment program will continue to stress
physical rehabilitation, 20 kv transmission and distribution extension
where justified. SNE will also develop a strategy for exploitation of the
interconnected transmission network by March 1988.
60.       SNE's complex relationships with its supervising ministry need to
be rationalized since there is a marked lack of coordination on sectoral
developments and investment.  The  Ministry of Energy  and Mines (MME)  has
taken over the planning, financing and execution of all new major
generation and transmission projects, SNE being only the operating agency.
To clarify SNE's responsibilities, the Government will carry out a thorough
review of SNE's legal, financial and institutional base by December 1987 so
as to: (i) establish a comprehensive legislative framework ('cahier des
clauses et conditions g6nerales") for the power sector; (ii) define the
roles of the MME and SNE in investment planning and financing; and (iii)
set clear financial objectives for SNE and, in particular, transfer
existing production and transmission assets to SHE's balance sheet with the
concurrent obligation for SNE to finance them.
61.       CORAF.  As a mixed enterprise with 40 percent private  ownership,
CORAF operates with little direct government interference. However, the
cost of its oil refining operations is high due to low throughput,
unsuitability  of  local  crude,   marketing  difficulties  and   excessive
expatriate assistance and financial charges. As compared to imports,
CORAW's annual production costs are about US$15 million or some 30-40
percent higher than the cost of equivalent imports. To decrease costs and
increase efficiency, CORAF will: ti) reduce expatriate staff by 15 percent
in December 1987 and a further 20 percent in July 1988; (ii) convert
production to a light crude better adapted to CORAW's refinery and market



- 22 -
profile by June 1988; (iii) reduce financial charges and prepare a debt
settlement plan with Hydro-Congo by June 1988. Following these measures,
CORAF's operating costs will be reexamined by November 1988 whe.A the
marketing and leasing arrangements between CORAF and Hydro-Congo next
expire.
62.       Hydro-Congo.  Hydro-Congo,  the  petroleum  product  distribution
company, has been implementing a rehabilitation plan since 1983, under
which it has leased its service stations, subcontracted transport in the
Brazzaville area, and set up new computerized systems for general and cost
accounting and billing. However, Hydro-Congo's financial and operational
performance  remains   poor  because   of  high   client  receivables   and
overstaffing. To intensify its rehabilitation efforts, Hydro-Congo will
now take measures to: (i) complete divestiture of all remainirLg retail
outlets and transport activities by December 1987; (ii) review its staffing
needs before the end of 1987 and thereafter cut staff by a minimum of 30
percent; (iii) reduce product losses to one percent before December 1988;
(iv) cut transport expenses by 50 percent before December 1988; and (v)
extend the responsibility of the internal audit unit to monitor the
exploration and production activities performed by its associated operators
by March 1988.
63.       SUCO.  The financial  performance of SUCO,  the sugar  plantation
and refinery, has rapidly deteriorated over the last few years.   Excessive
production, with stocks equivalent to over one-year of total domestic
consumption, has been aggravated by continued imports of refined sugar.
Imports are currently more attractive because retail margins on imported
sugar are larger than on domestic sugar and because the quality of imported
sugar is much higher.   As a  result  of high  production costs  and  poor
marketing, SUCO's losses amounted to CFAF 3 billion in 1985 and its
indebtedness has risen to CFAF 9 billion, with corresponding financial
charges of CFAF 1.2 billion, in 1986. As a short-term measure, Government
intends to keep restrictions on imports (para 67) while SUCO reduces the
present level of stocks and lowers costs. While SUCO's costs will remain
high  as   compared  to   efficient  international   producers,  there   is
considerable margin to make economies. This, combined with appropriate
tariff protection, should allow SUCO to sell its products in the domestic
market and fulfil its quota to the EEC.
64.       A stringent cost reduction and rehabilit 'tion plan has  therefore
been adopted for  1987-89 to  restore SUCO's viabAl..ty.   This action  plan
will involve the measures to: (i) limit productior. to 30,000 tons in 1987
to permit absorption of the existing stocks and thereafter to 40,000 tons
annually; (ii) enter into a management and technical assistance contract
that includes incentive payments by September 1987; (iii) cut staff and
implement other cost-cutting measures in 1988 based on details to be
proposed by December 1987; and (iv) prepare a financial restructuring plan
including debt rescheduling and recapitalization by December 1987.



- 23 -
5.   Incentive Policies and Private Sector Promotion
65.       As a  corollary  to  efforts  directly  aimed  at  improving  the
efficiency of  the  public  sector,  a major  thrust  of  the  Government's
adjustment program is to increase incentives to the private sector. At the
same time, these policy changes would enhance the competitive environment
in which the remaining PEs would operate, thereby also increasing their
efficiency.
66.       Price Controls.   The  first  principal  measures  concern  price
controls which the Government is committed to liberalize progressively.
The list of products subject to prices fixed by Government decree
("taxation") has already been reduced from 38 to 11 products of basic
necessity and 9 services as of October 1986. The list of products will be
further reduced to 9 products by March 1988. The current system of
approval of the ex-factory and retail margins prices ("homologation") for
other products Locally produced, and the control of intermediation margins
("regime  de   marges  commerciales")   for  imported   products  will   be
progressively eliminated based on a grouping of products into luxury items,
intermediate goods and basic necessities to be determined by December 1987.
The controls on margins and ex-factory prices for luxury goods will be
abolished by March 1988 as the start of liberalizing these controls.
67.       Trade  Liberalization.    To  complement   these  measures,   the
Government will review by March 1988 the existing quantitative restrictions
that apply only to imports competing with locally produced items (bottled
water, batteries, shoes, soap and plastic foam) with the view to replacing
these restrictions  by tariffs.   An exception  could be  made for  certain
products (sugar and cement) that require further study and a longer
timetable for  implementation  to permit  local  producers to  adjust.   To
address the broader issues of tariffs, the Government expects to raise the
question of tariff reform at the next UDEAC meeting. As of December 1987,
exports will no longer require prior authorization while the requirement
for a priori import licenses will be abolished and replaced by a system of
ex-post declaration to aid in the statistical monitoring of external trade
transactions by January 1987.
68.       Monopolies.  The array of existing monopolies granted to PEs will
be  reduced  over  time.   Several   key  monopolies   have  already   been
eliminated, notably for OCV (food crop marketing) and OCC (coffee and cocoa
marketing), while OFNACOM's import monopoly was reduced to four products
(rice, salt,  salted  fish  and  tomato concentrate)  in  July  1986.   The
monopoly of OCI (computer services) will be eliminated by December 1987.
The status of remaining monopolies will be reviewed and a plan prepared for
reducing the  number of monopolies before  March 1988.   In the  meantime,
OCB's monopoly on forestry exports has been made more flexible: companies
now may be granted an exemption by the Ministry of Forestry.
69.       Labor Mobility.  Several factors  affecting the private  sector's
flexibility in employing and utilizing labor will be changed. By September
1987, Goverament's monopoly on activities in the liberal professions (for



- 24 -
example, legal and medical services) will be abandoned. By January 1988, a
restructuring plan for ONEM0, the manpower agency, will be adopted in order
to redefine ONEMO's function as far as the private sector is concerned.
While ONEMO may be helpful in the public sector to place redundant labor,
it has been constraining for private enterprises which should be allowed to
recruit from whatever source.
70.       Private Investment Promotion.  Reflecting Government's intent  to
encourage greater private participation, Government has already taken
measures to improve the administrative and regulatory environment for small
and medium scale enterprises (SHEs).   This includes relaxed procedures  to
establish  a   business,   access   to  public   sector   procurement   and
simplification of the tax system. By December 1987, Government will
propose new measures to better adapt existing institutions such as the
chamber of commerce and commercial banks to provide credit and advisory
services to SMEs. Moreover, based on a review already been carried out,
initial proposals to harmonize and improve the various legal texts and
regulations will be made by August 1987. Finally, the reduced requirements
and simplified procedures for obtaining a business license that now apply
to SMEs will be extended to all applicants and the tax on profits will be
reduced from 49 percent to 45 percent by December 1987.
6.   Key Sectoral Policies
71.       Within its macroeconomic adjustment program, the Government  will
pave the way for improved human capital, diversification into non-oil
productive activities, especially agriculture and forestry, and reduction
of transport bottlenecks, through the elaboration of sectoral strategies in
these areas. For the moment, the Government considers that the changes in
the overall policy environment would, on the long-term, lead to positive
supply  responses  in  the  non-tradeable  sectors  (for  example,   trade,
construction and services) and is therefore focussing its direct attention
on the structural deficiencies of agriculture and forestry, as key sectors
which have suffered from a long period of neglect and mismanagement and are
badly affected by the erosion of the Congo's international competitiveness.
It will also focus attention on education and transport as two other areas
warranting immediate reform.
72.       Each of these sectors has its  own unique problems.  In the  case
of education, the main problem is to establish priorities on how to best
use the scarce human and financial resources available for the sector in
order to achieve a better balance between primary and secondary education,
strengthen  vocational  training  and  address  the  retraining  needs   of
redundant labor. In the transport sector, the key issues are to redirect
available resources to rehabilitation and maintenance, encourage cost
recovery in transport services, and ensure the economic justification of
all transport investments at the same time as increasing efficiency of the
existing network. The agriculture sector is faced with a complex set of
issues related to pricing, research, extension, credit, marketing, land
use, rural infrastructure and labor and land availabi',ty that will take a
long time to sort out. In the meantime, Government intends to continue to



- 25 -
increase returns to agriculture producers and to begin by focussing its
efforts, on a pilot basis, on extension services and by concentrating on
crops with proven returns such as banana, plantain, cassava, and other food
crops for domestic consumption. At the same time, it will examine the
long-term viability of coffee and cocoa. Confronted with declining market
shares and high costs relative to Asian producers, the forestry sector is
facing serious financial difficulties, which give rise to the need to
restructure  many  of  the  sector's  companies.   Government  support   to
producers is needed to lessen the financial burden imposed by OCB, the
marketing agency, as a first step in reviving the forestry sector.
73.        The Government has only started the process of elaborating sound
development strategies in these areas, the general thrust of which are
cited in the Letter of Development Policy. A number of studies have been
carried out that offer suggestions and recomlendations on the steps to take
in  restoring  the  dynamism   of  agriculture  and  forestry,   overcoming
bottlenecks  in  transport,   and  improving  the   effectiveness  of   the
educational system. These studies, supplemented with additional analysis
as required with support provided under the parallel technical assistance
projects,  can  thus  constitute  the   basis  for  preparing  the   needed
strategies. Time must be taken, nevertheless, to analyze critically the
various recommendations, achieve a consensus on the actions to be taken,
and shape them into coherent sectoral strategies. This would be done by
March 1988  in the  case of  agriculture, by  June 1988  for transport  and
forestry, and  by  October  1988  for  education.   By  the  end  of  1988,
Government expects to have action plans ready to implement as part of the
next phase of its structural adjustment effort.
PART III - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Loan HistorY
74.       The proposed loan will support the Congo's structural  adjustment
program,  the  elaboration  of which  has  been  assisted  by  the   First
Bank-financed Technical Assistance Project and more recently by the Second
Technical Assistance Project. Public enterprise reform is at the core of
the Congo's adjustment effort and the Bank has focussed much of its recent
attention on selected enterprises as well as helping Government to develop
its overall PE reform program. Specifically on the PE sector, a general
review was carried out in May 1985 and a public enterprise investment
review in May 1986, which complemented past Bank experience in selected
enterprises, notably water supply (SNDE), electricity (SNE), transport
(ATC), telecommunications (ONPT) and petroleum (Hydro-Congo). Missions in
October 1986 and February 1987 took the dialogue further into the details
of the PE reform program. During this period, the Bank was also active on
the macro-policy front, working extensively on the public investment
programs for both 1986 and 1987, in consultation with the Fund, and on
developing a medium-term economic framework as the basis for the Congo's
structural adjustment program.



- 26 -
75.       The structural adjustment  program was appraised  in March  1987,
following the broad agreement with the Bank on the Congo's medium-term
economic outlook reached in November 1986 and the updated agreement with
the Fund on its stabilization program in March 1987. Negotiations were
held in Washington in May 1987; the Congolese delegation was headed by His
Excellency Mr. I. Ossetoumba Lekoundzou, Minister of Finance and Budget.
Supplementary  loan  data  are  provided  in Annex  V.   The  parallel  PE
Institutional Development Project (Memorandum to the President, dated
------) was prepared, appraised and negotiated concurrently.
B. Relationship between the Proposed Operation and Policy Reforms
76.       The proposed  operation  would complement  the  Congo's  economic
stabilization measures already taken and initiate a medium term  structural
adjustment  of  the  economy,  starting  with  a major  emphasis  on   the
macroeconomic framework, petroleum resource management, the PE sector and
private sector  development as  well as  sector policies.   Government  has
provided the Bank with a Letter  of Development Policy which describes  the
specific measures that have been or will be taken during this first phase
of the adjustment program. These measures are summarized in Annex VI. The
loan would ease the Congo's financial strain during the adjustment period.
not only with respect to external capital requirements, but also by
increasing budgetary resources.
C. Effects of Adiustment
77.       The Congo is in the midst of creating the consensus needed for  a
major reorientation in order to change attitudes, habits, institutions and
policies. The desired impact is to achieve, over the longer term, growth
with greater equity, particularly between rural and urban populations,
through adjustment. While oil remains the pillar of the Congolese economy,
the adjustment process must of necessity aim at maximizing the growth of
the non-oil productive sectors. With appropriate policies and incentives,
the agriculture and forestry sectors are expected to make a come-back to
their pre-oil levels of output. This implies that bottlenecks such as
rural roads will  be addressed and  a redirection of  the unemployed  urban
workforce, previously engaged in construction, will take place. A revival
of agriculture and forestry could also stimulate non-oil manufacturing,
especially in related light  industries such as  food, wood processing  and
light  consumer-goods.    A   prudent  use   of   oil  resources   in   the
post-stabilization phase and  a realistic  role for the  public sector  are
essential for  this  revival  to  take place  and  be  sustained  over  the
medium-term.  In essence, the effect will  be, inter alia, to separate  the
automatic growth of the public sector from any future windfall profits of
the oil sector.
78.       It will take  a considerable  period of time  for the  adjustment
process to take effect. According to the scenario presented in Annex VII,
which is based on relatively conservative assumptions on future oil prices



27 -
(the base-case scenario),  3/ the  economy slides along  a negative  growth
path during 1986-87, stabilizes at about the same level during 1988-89, and
then begins to grow in  1990.  The net result is  that by 1995 GDP  reaches
the level attained in 1984 in real terms which, given population growth  of
about 3 percent per annum, implies a  fall in real per capita GDP of  about
one-third during 1984-94. By the mid-1990s, the Congo is expected to have
made the necessary adjustments for achieving sustained economic growth at a
rate somewhat above pbpulation growth, and can start making up for
previously lost ground.
79.       With adjustment,  the structure  of the  economy is  expected  to
change somewhat. Assuming that structural deficiencies can be gradually
overcome and the competitiveness of the Congo's non-oil exports restored,
the share of agriculture and forestry in non-oil GDP would expand from 15
to 18 percent, the share of non-oil industry from 11 to 12 percent, and the
share of other sectors would decline from 68 to 65 percent between
1986-1998. Growth in agriculture and forestry is particularly significant
because of its potential contribution to increasing exports (timber, cocoa,
coffee) and reducing  food imports.   Timber production  amounted to  about
600,000 cubic meters in 1985 compared to an estimated potential of about
2.0 million cubic meters.  Cocoa and coffee production have stagnated  over
the  last  five  years  at  around  2,000  and  2,500  tons   respectively.
Substantial expansion is possible so long as labor remains available and
the incentives system  encourages private initiative.   A figure of  10,000
tons for each crop  seems feasible over  the longer term.   Notwithstanding
diversification efforts, the Congo would remain an oil economy with the
share of oil in GDP only declining from 46 percent in 1985 to 38 percent in
1998.
80.       This  scenario  remains  extremely   vulnerable  to  changes   in
international petroleum  prices.   A scenario  based  on lower  oil  prices
assumes prices 20 percent below those presented in the above base-case.
Under this scenario, the lower oil prices lead to changes in oil
production, government revenues, and oil investments and result in slower
GDP growth with  declines persisting  through the  period up  to 1990.   It
would prolong the period needed to regain the same level of per capita
income as in 1984. If this lower oil price scenario were to hold, there
would be significantly higher debt service, medium and long term debt to
GDP, and  fiscal  deficit  to  GDP ratios.   The  capital  account  becomes
31   The assumptions underlying the base-case scenario are as follows:  the
exchange rate is postulated constant at CFAF 310 to the US dollar.
Oil prices follow EPD projections: US$18 per barrel in 1990, US$23 per
barrel in 1994 and US$33 per barrel in 1998. The second debt
rescheduling is postulated for 1988-90: 6 years of grace, 10 years
payback for the Paris Club, and 3 years grace, 9 years payback for the
London Club, 8 percent and 9 percent for the Paris and London Clubs
respectively.



- 28 -
unsustainable starting in 1987 as the gapfil reaches levels that cannot be
financed  in  the  current  environment.   Any  marginal   creditworthiness
disappears.
81.       Moreover, if adjustment  were not  to take place,  even with  the
base-case for petroleum prices, the continuation of past policies would
lead to an untenable financial and balance of payments situation for the
Congo. This situation would degenerate so rapidly in 1987 and 1988 that no
credible projection of economic performance can be devised as the basis for
comparison. Extraordinary measures such as a moratorium on existing debt
service would be the only recourse for the Congo to pursue if it were not
to adjust. Otherwise, half of foreign exchange earnings from petroleum
would be consumed by debt service and imports would to fall to half to
two-thirds of their 1984 level. Government resources would furthermore be
severely constrained and would have to be directed almost entirely to
public debt service, requiring the elimination of the public investment
program and reducing current expenditures to about 30 percent of 1984-85
levels. The resulting impact on the economy would be devastating.
82.       The financial requirements  of the scenario  using the  base-case
oil  assumptions  (after  the  1986  rescheduling  and  excluding   private
non-guaranteed  debt)  imply  gross   foreign  borrowing  requirements   of
approximately US$1.6 billion or about US$260 million per annum over the
1987-1992 period.   Given  the  Congo's marginal  creditworthiness,  it  is
assumed that an important share of the gross disbursements would be
financed by IBRD and official concessional sources, as shown below.
Starting with the proposed loan, an IBRD lending program oriented towards
policy-based and fast-disbursing operations is envisaged, with the share of
IBRD in the Congo's total outstanding public external debt reaching 26
percent by 1991 up from only 3 percent in 1986. The remaining financing
gap of about US$600 million over the period, or approximately US$150
million per annum, left after these disbursements would be met mainly by a
second rescheduling in the Paris and London Clubs in 1988 and an injection
of about US$35 million of fresh money.
Gross Official Disbursements by TYge of Lender: 1987-1992
(In Percentage of Total)
1987      1988      1989      1990     1991      1992
IBRD                     3.13      7.86      14.84     15.70    25.80    20.70
Concessional DAC         8.75      9.18      10.44     12.13    20.06    20.38
Concessional Other      18.93     11.45      10.65     11.80      4.52     4.74
Other Non-Concess.
multi.                 5.23      8.78       5.21.     4.27      0.00     0.00
olw ADB                4.42      8.26       4.82      4.15       NA       NA
Suppliers Credit        43.68     24.25      26.45     29.48    28.37    33.36
Private Guaranteed      20.28     38.48      32.41     26.62    21.26    20.83
Total                  100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00   100.00   100.00
mmn 9m __-



- 29 -
83.       Given the  modest  prospects for  recovery  in oil  prices,  much
prudence is called for in managing the Government's external debt. With no
easy or short run solution to this problem, it is imperative that the Congo
negotiate the second set of reschedulings to lessen the burden on the
external accounts. Without these reschedulings. Congo is expected to incur
unsustainable debt service payments beginning in 1988. Reschedulings will
enable the Government to cope with lower export revenues, with the debt
service ratio dropping to about 14-18 percent in 1988-89 (instead of 30-36
percent) and would help it face the repayment of currently rescheduled debt
coming due in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Restoring creditworthiness
in the face of existing debt profile, as well as the capital inflows
required to sustain the structural adjustment scenario, remains a basic
area of concern.   This concern  implies that the  Congo must  remain on  a
narrow adjustment path for at least the next decade and that a concerted
action on the part of the international financial community is necessary to
ease the burden of adjustment. This would allow for greater flexibility in
negotiating the reschedulings which are, at this point in time, the sine
qua non of restoring creditworthiness.
D. Benefits and Risks
84.       The proposed adjustment operation is  one of the cornerstones  of
the Bank's strategy to assist the Congo to undertake vital economic
reforms. While difficult to implement, these reforms are essential to
reestablish the creditworthiness of the country and lay the foundations for
a  sustainable  pattern  of  economic  growth.   It  is  anticipated   that
ultimately a more efficient use of public resources will result, that the
non-oil productive sector will be stimulated, and that a more appropriate
balance between  the public  and private sectors will be  achieved.   The
particular benefits to accrue from the PE adjustment measures are the
lessening of the financial burden on Government and the domestic banking
system, the increased transparency of the Government's financial relations
with PEs, rationalization of resource allocation by Government to PEs, and
the freeing of resources  for more productive uses.   Pis remaining in  the
sector will be made more efficient through rehabilitation efforts, cost
cutting measures and labor reduction programs. The proposed measures would
also reorient the expectations of graduates away from secure employment
opportunities  in  the   public  sector.   Efforts   at  streamlining   the
administrative procedures for private sector development and at reducing
distortions that impede private activities would assist in improving the
general investment climate and building investor confidence.
85.       This first structural adjustment  operation intervenes in a very
difficult period for the Congo, in light of the contraction of the economy
due to the fall in petroleum prices, compounded by the years of economic
mismanagement that have severely undermined the economy's resilience.
Given the social consequences of the reforms, described in Section E,
officials are understandably fearful of major shifts in political direction
and are seeking ways to internalize the adjustment process and to gain the
support of the general public through press campaigns and public forums.
The possible lack of response by the private sector and the shallowness of
non-oil productive sectors combined with the severity of the economic



- 30 -
crisis and the Congo's weak administrative capacity to elaborate and
implement reforms contribute to the risk that the program may not be fully
realized.   The  program's  success   will  furthermore  be  dependent   on
international petroleum prices and the strength of the US dollar; the
support  of  the  international   financial  community  is  also   critical
throughout the adjustment period.
86.       Several elements, however, reduce these risks.  The international
financial community has thus far shown a strong commitment to support the
Congo in  this difficult  period, while  the petroleum  sector, if  soundly
managed, provides  a  vital long-term  underpinning  of the  economy.   The
adjustment program design also stzesses internal consensus and sound
program management, and the active participation of PEs and labor at the
planning stage, combined with their involvement in implementation mitigates
against strident opposition. Complementary assistance to help Government
implement its adjustment program and rehabilitate key PEs, as provided
under the parallel Public Enterprise Institutional Developmenz. Project, the
ongoing Second Technical Assistance Project and other donor-financed
projects, will strengthen the institutional capability to carry out the
program as  envisaged.   It should  nevertheless  be stressed  that  future
petroleum prices remain a critical factor beyond the Congo's control.
E. Social Ir!pacts
87.       The Congo's medium-term adjustment program would eventually allow
a gradual improvement in living standards starting in the 1990s which, in
the absence of the program, would be curtailed significantly as a result of
reduced  availability  of   external  capital   and  constrained   imports.
Prospects for rapid and significant increases in per capita income,
nevertheless, remain poor as compared to the earlier period. It will take
most of the next decade to resolve the substantial debt overhang which
presently  mortgages  the  Congo's  future.   The  adjustment  process,  as
outlined above, will inevitably entail some social costs as adjustments are
made to meet the  requirements of the  new economic structure.   Mitigating
these costs are policies to benefit those less favored among the country's
population, particularly in the rural areas, and policies to improve the
efficiency of public expenditures in order to ensure that basic social
services are provided to the poor on as wide a coverage as permitted by the
resource  constraints.   In   particular,  restructuring   of  the   public
expenditure program would result in a significant reduction of transfers
and subsidies, through changes in the costly scholarship program and
subsidies to PEs, and a relative decline in personnel wage expenditures.
The impact of these measures on the country's poorest segments is expected
to be limited as the main beneficiaries have so far been the higher income
groups in urban areas. In addition, through more rigorous planning and
programming to be instituted under the SAL, priority will be given in
allocating available resources, albeit at much lower levels than in the
past, to safeguard basic social services, more vulnerable segments of the
population. The renewed emphasis on rural development and agriculture in
the public investment program and pricing policies would, moreover, benefit
lower income groups outside of the Congo's urban centers, with increases in



31 -
producer prices and the liberalization of foodcrop marketing designed to
increase farmer incomes and redress the rural-urban terms of trade.
88.       The main burden  of the adjustment  program will be  felt by  the
urban population, which as noted earlier has depended directly on public
sector  employment   and   high   government  spending   to   sustain   its
disproportionately high level of income. This situation was reversed in
1986 and will continue to deteriorate slightly up to 1990 as fiscal
restraint on the part of Government continues. Compared to the alternative
of no adjustment, however, the depth of the contraction in urban levels
should be manageable.
89.       A few select urban groups will  be most directly affected by  the
immediate impact of the adjustment program, namely: (1) new graduates
expecting public sector employment and students currently enjoying generous
overseas scholarships; and (2) employees of public enterprises to be made
redundant in the sector's restructuring. In the case of the first group,
their socio-economic position, age and lack of -dependents plus access to
support from their extended families should mitigate serious hardships. In
the case of laid-off PE employees, compensatory actions will be taken to
provide severance allowances to sustain living standards for a period of
time  (two  to   four  years  based   on  existing  collective   bargaining
agreements). Expectations are that policies to improve the economic
environment for private sector activities, especially in urban trade, would
lessen the  negative impacts  on employment.   Emphasis will  be placed  on
providing appropriate financial incentives to facilitate their absorption
in the private sector. In order to ease the transition to the private
sector, Government intends to establish an interest subsidy scheme for
people leaving the civil service and new high school and university
graduates to enable them to use commercial credit to start up activities.
More generally, the Government will facilitate the establishment of certain
liberal professions in the private sector and other types of small-scale
enterprises through its promoting efforts to create employment.
90.       In the long term, the  social costs of structural adjustment  are
likely to be outweighed by the benefits in terms of growth and efficiency.
The distribution of income should shift in the direction of the rural
sector and engender the supply responses in agriculture and forestry
necessary to support the target GDP growth rate. By contrast, the costs of
adjustment in the urban areas should be tempered by the cushioning effects
of the program and, in the final analysis, the necessary price to pay for
the major restructuring effort needed  to redress the Congo's economy.   In
order to assess the full effect of the program starting in 1987, the
Government will monitor the social dimensions of its adjustment program
through a UNDP-financed study executed by the World Bank with the aim of:
(a) developing and maintaining adequate data bases on the social impacts of
structural adjustment; (b) carrying out economic and social studies on the
implications of this adjustment; and (c) strengthening the institutional
capacity to identify, appraise and evaluate additional programs to assist
individuals make the transition.



- 32 ^
P. Financing
91.       The proposed Loan of US$70 million equivalent would finance about
12 percent of the Congo's merchandise Imports in the period June 1987 to
September 1988 and meet about 33 percent of the country's gross external
capital requirement for the same period. The loan amount would cover 20
percent of the Government's gross external financing requirements in the
Congo's 1987 budget year and 22 percent in 1988.
G. Disbursement. Administration and Procurement
92.       Tranche Release.   The proposed  loan will  be disbursed  in  two
tranches of US$35 million each and is expected to be fully disbursed within
12 months of loan effectiveness. Prior action by Government has been taken
in  the  following  areass  (i)  suspension  of  physical works  for   the
Etoumbi-Kunda palm oil plantation; (ii) freeze on the size of the civil
service and personnel expenditures; (iii) agreement on the limits for new
borrowings; (iv) abolition of Hydro-Congo's monopoly on retail distribution
of refined petroleum products; (v) appointment of liquidators for at least
four of eight public enterprises; (vi) creation of appropriate legal
framework for liquidation and privatization of PEs; (vii) proposals for new
procurement procedures for PEs; and (viii) agreement on action programs for
seven key enterprises. The first tranche will be available upon loan
effectiveness.   The  special  condition  of  loan  effectiveness  is  that
Government has achie'ved satisfactory progress in the preparation of its
macro-economic framework (1988-92).
93.       The second tranche will become available about six to nine months
later.   Disbursement  of ,the  second  tranche will  be  contingent  upon
satisfactory progress made by the Government in carrying out the structural
adjustment program, in particular the following actions would have been
taken: (i) completion of the 1988-90 "esquisses financibres' and adoption
of the 1988 "Loi de Finances'; (ii) preparation of oil palm sector
strategy; (iii) progress in keeping net recruitment at zero and adhering
to the rule of CFAP 1 spent for CFAF 1 saving in personnel expenditures;
(iv)  progress in revising  its Mining Code; (v)   implementation of a new
price structure for refined petroleum products; (vi) implementation of PE
divestiture program as agreed; (vii) progress in implementing of a plan to
settle debts as of 1985 of selected PEs; (viii) agreement on a banking
sector restructuring plan; (ix) progress in reducing staff in non-key PEs
and agreement on staff reduction plans for the seven key PEs; (x) progress
in implementing action programs for these key PEs; (xi) implementation of
measures to liberalize trade and prices including reduction of products
subject to fixed prices, abolition of the system of control of ex-factory
prices and price margins for luxury goods, replacement of quantitative
restrictions with tariffs, and elimination of the requirement for import
licenses and export authorization; (xii) abolition of the monopoly of OCI
and preparation of plan to reduce the number of remaining monopolies; and
(xiii)  preparation  of   restructuring  plan  for   ONEMO.   Progress   in
implementing the program will be reviewed by the Bank about six months
after loan effectiveness.



- 33 -
94.       Monitoring and Auditing.  In 1985, the Government established  an
inter-ministerial Steering Group (*Groupe de Pilotage') chaired by the
Prime Minister to supervise the preparation and implementation of its
economic adjustment program. The Steering Group, which will be expanded to
include representatives of key sectoral ministers, will retain the lead in
finalizing and implementing the structural adjustment program with the
support of the ad-hoc Secretariat composed of high level officials.
Specifically on PE questions, a small technical unit will be created in the
Prime  Minister's  Office  to  provide  support  to  the  Steering   Group.
Following disbursement of the first tranche of the loan, the Steering Group
will  submit   to  the   Bank  a   report  evaluating   progress  made   in
implementation. This report will serve as a basis for the release of the
second tranche. The Steering Group will submit to the Bank a final report
on the program's  implementation upon  full disbursement of  the loan.   An
audit report, conforming to internationally accepted standards and prepared
by auditors approved by the Bank, will be submitted within six months after
the close of each fiscal year.
95.       Technical Assistance.   A parallel  PE Institutional  Development
Project will provide the support needed to help Government to; (i)
implement the PE reform program; (ii) restructure and improve management of
key PEs; and (iii) formulate further necessary macroeconomic and sectoral
adjustment  measures.   Details  of  this  project  are  provided  in   the
accompanying Memorandum to the President (P-4543-COB dated June-_, 1987).
Other support aimed it providing key policy advice to Government would
continue to be provided under the Second Technical Assistance Project.
96.       Disbursement.  The loan will reimburse the foreign exchange  cost
of eligible imports (including all imports except luxury goods, defense
items, and refined oil products) on the basis of evidence that they have
been paid for and imported after loan signing, with provision for
retroactive financing of up to US$10 million for expenditures made after
April 1, 1987. Disbursement would be facilitated by the establishment of a
Special  Account  in  the  central   bank  (BEAC)  into which  upon   loan
effectiveness US$15 million equivalent would be disbursed. This account
would be replenished up to the tranche limit, based on statement of
expenditures (SOEs) prepared by the Ministry of Finance and aggregated in
amounts of not less than US$1 million equivalent and on evidence that the
funds had been used for imports permitted under the loan. The nature and
the origin of goods as well as the payment date will be indicated on the
SOB and all relevant supporting documents (invoices, import certificates
and evidence of payment) will be maintained for review by supervision
missions and auditors. Expenditures for goods procured under invoices for
US$10,000 equivalent or less would not be eligible for financing out of the
loan proceeds. The local currency counterpart funds generated by the loan
will be devoted to financing general development expenditure in 1987 and
1988.
97.       Procurement.  Both  private and  public sector  imports would  be
eligible for financing. Imports by private entities would be in accordance
with normal commercial practices, which are acceptable. For public sector
imports, procurement would be made through international competitive



- 34 -
bidding in accordance with IBRD guidelines for contracts of US$1.5 million
equivalent or more while contracts for the procurement of goods estimated
to cost less than US$1.5 million equivalent each would be awarded on the
basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser which are
satisfactory to the Bank.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
98.       Total Bank Group commitments  in the Congo as  of March 31,  1987
amount to US$189.4 million: five loans and credits totalling US$151.4
million have been fully disbursed. Two loans amountir.S to US$16 million
are now being implemented; and two credits for US$22 million are nearly
fully disbursed. Past operations have been designed mainly to assist the
country's efforts to improve its basic transport infrastructure, better
exploit its  natural resources  and upgrade  the educational  system.   The
largest share of past commitments (54 percent) went to finance rail, river
and road transport projects, followed by mining and petroleum projects (19
percent). The realignment of the Congo-ocean railway under the Second
Railway Project and the River Transport Project were both designed to
increase the efficiency and capacity of transport services along the
country's primary  transport  corridor.   The  Petroleum  Sector  Technical
Assistance Project was designed to improve sector management and increase
national benefits from oil exploitation.   The Third Highway Project  aimed
at facilitating agricultural output by improving public road maintenance
with special  emphasis  on  feeder  roads.   The  Wood  Processing  Project
approved in FY83, was mainly designed to diversify exports and promote
regional development.   A Macroeconomic  Technical Assistance  Project  was
approved in May 1983 to help Government manage its external debt and
domestic  public  finances  and   prepare  adjustments  to  its   five-year
development strategy.
99.       Most  of  the  past  projects  have  suffered  from  insufficient
attention to the socio-economic environment and, in some cases, poor
implementation. The Second Railway Project cost three times as much as
anticipated and  did not  bring  about all  expected benefits.   The  River
Transport Project was implemented satisfactorily but did not address the
broader issue  of the  relationship between  the Government  and ATC.   The
Third  Highway  Project  achieved   its  objectives  of  constructing   and
maintaining low-cost roads, but was undermined by unsound Government
policies on  new  construction.   The Education  Project  was  complex  and
difficult to manage. The Wood Processing Project encountered considerable
financial difficulties due to the high production costs and taxes imposed
on exports, combined with long delays in the transport of logs to port and
poor performance of the state monopoly responsible for timber exports. The
two Technical Assistance Projects (macroeconomic management and petroleum),
intended to help the Government put in place economic adjustment policies
and increase petroleum exploitation, eventually achieved this objective but
after some delay.
100.      The sharp deterioration in the position of the Government in 1984
further affected implementation of all projects. Accumulation of arrears
led to a suspension of disbursements in September 1984. Disbursements were



- 35 -
resumed in February 1985 but this prolonged period of suspension brought
the relationship between the Congo and the Bank to an all time low. During
that period it became evident that a new approach was called for. The Bank
proposed to the Government a program of assistance emphasizing the
rehabilitation of the public enterprise sector, the establishment of
favorable conditions for the promotion of private initiative, particularly
in agriculture, and the stabilization of oil revenues over the long term.
101.      The  major  goal  for  Bank  assistance  is  to  help  the  Congo
reestablish its economic viability and creditworthiness over the medium
term. This in turn hinges heavily upon the ability of the non-oil sectors
to sustain growth and increase exports and the petroleum sector to maintain
output at levels not too far below those obtained in recent years. Tt is
also dependent on the determination of the Congolese authorities to
implement the stabilization program as agreed with the IMF. The Second
Technical Assistance Project was approved in August 1986, to help the
Government design a program of policy reform, primarily by assisting it  in
formulating a non-oil growth strategy  and an oil development policy.   The
proposed program of Bank assistance would support economic adjustment
through the proposed Structural Adjustment Loan and the parallel PE
Institutional Development Project.
102.      IFC made its first loan to  the Congo in April 1981.  The  US$3.5
million loan went to finance part of a US$15.6 million project to modernize
the existing veneer plant of Placongo and to expand its logging capacity.
However, in March 1982, IFC suspended its commitment to the company because
of a serious deterioration in its financial position. IFC also approved an
equity participation in a promotional company, Societe d'Etudes de la
Cellulose du Congo. which studied the feasibility of establishing a pulp
mill in the Congo.   A US$1.5 million loan  to Congolaise Industrielle  des
Bois (CIB) was approved to help expand the company's logging operations,
and construct, equip, and place in operation a sawmill, and related
services. Due to an unexpected shortfall of CIB's internal cash generation
in the past two years, IFC extended a complementary loan of US$0.7 million
in 1986 to assist in CIB's financial restructuring efforts. IFC has also
approved a loan of US$0.2 million and an equity participation of US$1.6
million equivalent in Congolaise de Bois Imprdgnes to help construct a
utility pole plant to process eucalyptus trees.
PART V - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
103.      There has been close collaboration  between the Bank and the  IMF
in preparing the stabilization and structural adjustment programs since
early 1986 when the Bank was asked to review Congo's public investment
program, including PE investments, as part of the preparation of the Fund's
support to the Congo. The Standby arrangement signed in July 1986 included
several measures that were jointly formulated by Fund and Bank staff,
addressing the PE sector (price liberalization, tariff increases, wage bill
reductions, abolition of monopolies) and public resource management (civil
service freeze, fiscal reform). Subsequently, overlapping Bank and Fund
missions liaised closely on recent Standby reviews and the formulation of



- 36 -
the  structural  adjustment  program.   In  particular,  tile  1987   public
investment program reviewed by the Bank and agreed upon with Government was
an essential element on the latest Standby review.
104.      Coordination with  other  international donors  involved  in  the
financing of the PE sector and the Congo's adjustment effort has been very
close. The French Government, through the Treasury, CCCE and FAC, mounted
its own "pret d'ajustement structurels in 1986 in the amount of CFAF 13
billion (US$43 million).  A similar  operation is currently a major  factor
in meeting  the  Congo's  financial  requirements  for  1987.   As  another
financier of the Congo's adjustment program, with a proposed loan of CFAF
10 billion (US$30 million), AfDB joined the Bank appraisal mission in May
1987 and participated  in the negotiations  of this loan  in May 1987.   In
order to coordinate its support to selected public enterprises, CCCE also
participated in discussions  on the  PE aspects of  the program.   Finally,
ICCE, AfDB, SIB and French bilateral aid were closely consulted during the
design of the parallel PE Institutional Development Project, in particular
to coordinate assistance for the  rehabilitatiori of key enterprises.   CCCE
is furthermore providing cofinancing for the parallel project in the amount
of about US$1.2 million equivalent.
PART VI - RECOMENDATIN
105.      I am  satisfied that  the  proposed loan  would comply  with  the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
June    , 1987
Washington, DC.



- 37 -
Page 1 of 3
ULOPLZI'S 1RPUlC OF TB CON
STRUCTURAL  DJUSrT LOAN
icY XNCROEGCOHIC INDICATORS
A. shae,s of arto  Osne  Product                       6. Ore.h  Rat" CB per  _ -ml
(fr_e current pries dt)                                (free constant pric, data)
m       twoa  1i0        i"m    10Wt   196              1408-7S  1978-80  1960-84    litYl    1i
Oroes Dmesotic Product c.p.     210.0   10.0,  10.0   10.0   10.0   W00.0                   7.0      4.?    11.8    4.8
Not Indirect Team             14.0    10.?    16.1        ..      ..       ..              ..       ..
Ariculturo                    10.1    18.7    11.7      7.4      .0       ..              4.1      2.1    -.0       0.8
lnuetry                        0.9    2.1    46.6    86.9    86.0         ..              9.       8.5    15.1    -4.2
(of wc h  raftrin)              ..      ..      7.5     5.8      8.9      ..               ..       ..     8.       4.9
ServIcow                      61.9    42.2    41.7    25.7       6.1       ..              .7      2.2    10.1    -8.8
Resource Balance                -17.1   -11.8    21.4    90.4   19.8
Separta of aes                8i.0    81.8    88.4    57.6 a     2.9                     13.0      7.0    12. 1    -2.8
Ioorte of CN5                88.1    48.4    42.0    86.2    214 1                       7.      -1.7     a.9    -1.8
Tatal Expenditures              U7.1   111.8   100.1    89.8    9.0                          5.0    -0.4      9.8      4.9
Total Cmieumtion              e4.7    79.6    so 5.0    8.8    56.6        ..             J.2      a.8    11.1    -0.2
Private Camnaumt           0i.   42.8    41.0    8.          89.4                      2.2      1.6    12.6 i   -1.5
Gen"er  Govrernmet         14.2    17.8    17.8    14.0    1.1                         7.4     8.7     8.6      8.9
Oe.. Doestic Investment       .2.4    02.0    85.6    80.4    80.0                        9.8    -4.9      7.0    -8.1
Fi Xod bwestoont                            s2.9    29.0    5.8
Cange. in Stock                              2.8      1.8     1.2 
Oreas omatic Sevina               8.8    29.1    41.4    4t.4    44.4                                 0.1    16.7   -25.5
Nat Factor                    -2.7    -5.6    -7.1    4.     -8.9    -7. 
NIt Current Transfero                          -0.1    -0.1    -0. 
4Gri National savina.                             84.2    40.5 iS    .I                                      17. 1   -29.6
In bi Ions of CPA f*rn           l9w     1013   1s0o    1a        loft    1w6
(at content 19  prie)           -        -
crao  iomatic Product          in      2S0      80               a 4                      7.0      4.7    11.8    -8.5
Capacity to Icport              sO     149      211     87        t                       8.6      1.4    14.7   -14.8
Term_ a Trade Adjustment        go      I8        0              -10as 
Ore Domet  Incoa              1in      an      s8J0     8n         ?      .. -            45       2.0    1.9    107
Orem National Prodl            l    t 17        a8      58       so       ..               .9      4.2   II.8    4.0
r0m Nanal Inoea                in      US       6a8     809      80       ..              4.5      1.4    1.S  -11.2
(lo 6   Ia   l8      )-_             ------Inflation Rte. (11 pa.)- 
C. Pricreo ,dicae                MO,   iu         9n      aISm   l9ilU     6            10657  197540  1980-84    19wsP   196
Conruar Price. (n U64)          10.0    10    14a.8  1i0.    170.1 t                         8.4    10.5    12.1      6.1
Wholemel, Pricae (I10 68)       10.0   180.    140.8   180.7   171.          ..              8.4    12.2    22.8      6.6
Iklicit ODP ODflator            10.0   189.5   180.1   189.3   17.                           4.4     0.2    18.6      5.1
lslicit Eapenditure Oolleftor   10.0  O11.2   144.8   1.9   181.4                            8.9    12.9    11.9    1U.i
0. Other Indicator>                   196lt-o          19780-0          19WO-                       -    -     --
Creath Rat" (IUSp.):
Population                             2.6              8.0              8.1         a a *_tle.ted data
Labor Force                              ,p - pretiainq data
re. Hational Ince  p.c.                I.?             -1.6              5.5
Private Censumption p.c.              -0.4             -1.1              8.6
Import Elaiticity.
Imort. (**Ws) / GOP (op)               1               40.4              0.0
Nrerinal Slvir4e Rtatee
Ore" Nationl S"ing                                                      46.0
Oreo. Ooeetic bavin'                  44.7            104.0             5.0
MCMN (period everese):
Shere of Total                   195    178   1to    1i
tAbor Force in                    - __       _
Agriculture
servicee
Ttail                                                                                         ___



-38-                                                ANNEX I
Page T2of 3
Volum  Ind** (1960   10)s                   Vales at Current Peir..  (ellil_ UN):
il. u.r_ ii.  te                  1M       19e2    1968    1L64    19p    166.   1980    19g            Ism      19t4    19i.   s9om
C_it, 1                          Jl0.0    8.6    64.5    69.0          ..       ..      6.9     8.5      2.4      8.5      8.S       2.5
oeWdity 2                        100.0      7.0    58.2      1.8       ..       ..    14.3      5.1      4.0      8.2      8.8       7.4
cee.oity 8                       100.0   1J0.4   14a.2   161.5         ..       ..   784.r7  102.0   10.4  1172.0   995.2    4W6.6
Comiodlit  4                     100.0    66.0   6e.8        0.0       ..       .    106.6    66.0    U1.6    60.0    56.8          66.3
mW.facturea                      10.0        ..       ..      ..       ..       ..      6.7    18.9    12.0    12.1    11.2         16.4
Other Exporte                    100.0   S2.2    87.2  6I8.1           ..       ..    46.4    60.7    97.6   148.3    50.6    154.51
Totat llrondia. Exports FOB    100.0    67.5    64.6    114.7          ..       ..   919.6  123I.2  124i.0  1898.0  1122.2    61t.7
P. Neretandia. 1Iorts
Food                             100.0   127.8   116.8   181.0         ..       ..    77.7   102.4    95.9    98.7   112.2          67.1
FM an Other Energy               100.0   128.6    74.9    16.2         ..       ..    57.7    61.9   8S.2         6.r7    1.5        5.1
Othor e.orte                                                                          8J.2   718.0   6156.6   68.8  6S8.6    861.2
Other Cmueer Goode            100.0   124.9   1t0.9   186.7         ..       .      17.1    20.0    18.6    17.9    85.0         01.2
Other    _tirmWie  Goode      100.0  295.6   267.2   227.6          ..        ..    90.6    1o6.7   141.S    1-,.6    98.4    180.0
Capital Good                  100.0   248.5   210.0   206.7                        107.4   261.6       6.1   160.7   182.5    120.0
Tr..l Ilrc.andiae Ieports CIF    100.0   145.9   115.1    60.1         ..       ..   666.    677.2    75.7   7W8.2   774 8    488.4
0. Terme of Trade (1960 * 100)    1910    1982    1986    1964    1946P    1966-
------- -                 __-       -    -__-    --  ----N-
erech. Ixports Price Index       100.0    97.7    90.s    69.2    66.2    84.5
March. ZIports Price Index       100.0    96.9    98.9    92.0    91.4    94.4             * **ti_ted dsta
hrchendiae Ter_ of Trad          10O.0   100.6    96.2   94.9    94.4    57.7               p  pr.lf iner  data
LSI siIIions (at current pricee):
HI. 6 lance  of Payanst           19o    1962    1968    196         196      1966.
Export. of Omode end NF           OQ       1174    1209     184i    t224       a4
NcndEia (FOB)                   911    1109    1114    1268    1142         785
Man-Factor Serwve              112       6s       6s      so       62      1II
Ixport of Goode nd W6S            1286    1428    17         ilo     1180      959
N.rchandise (FO)                54       71S      649     617      616      468
4on-fetor Services              71n      710      727     498      884      50e
Resource Balance                  -2       -949    -174      288       74    -113
Net Factor Incme                  -164    -170    -174    -200    -2t4    -147
(interet per 0RB)                41      70       64       6o      107
Net CGrreat Trnofeore               -1     -16       -4       -8        8        1
(eorkers re_ittence.)                1       0        0        0        0
Currant Account b lance           -400    -487    -82         S2    -167    -259
Lane-Tere Capi tal Inflow          249      482      12      -51
Diret Investment                 40       85      St        S6       0
Official Cepitel Grant.           0        0       0        0        0
Net VT Loan  (ORB deta)         8let     888      1       112        s       .
Other LT In6 lwe (Net)           20       02      -40    -197
Tabrl Othor Items (Not)           -1i9      -16      14I    -1,0
iet Mhort-tere Capital          -69    -26         4     -226
Cepitel Floew N.E..               0        0       0        0        0        0
Error and 0.ieioar             -12D      29S      59       66        0
Chene> in Net Reservee             -74       96      94    923          1
Not Credit from D                -9        0       0        0        0
Other Rearvo Ch_ang
C - indicates lncre*.)          -66      96       94      268        1
As thares af QIP:
Resource eaIlane                 11      -16     -12        S       -0      -10
Interaat Pey ate                  2       8        4        4        6
Carrant Account Sal eon           1      -28     -20       -8       -9
NrenduA Item-:
Internest'i Roee (all. US1)         6S      87        7        4        4
R,arvee Intl. Gold (elI. 1U6e)      9        42      12        a        4
Ofticial X-Ra<to  LOaj'-aI)     211.80  32t.62  881.07  4S6.96  449.2t  347.00
Inde Rial Of. X-R ee 1980   100.00   99.59   97.49   100.45  102.7               . 7  -------      ------------------------------------
CDP (till ons of current US$)     M70      2168    2008    219       2182    2187



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
Sbhr,e of MP                                        O t Cbi Rato. (U p.o.)
I.  iuaa  (*o.l#  toel)           1960O   1982    19SS    1964   li8Wfp    1966                1980 - 88t        1984    196       1980
COrreot Rweept.                   80.1    88.4    84.1    84.4    84.8    80.7                  36.s             21.6      1.0    -54.9
Curret Mapenditurem               21.7    19.6    20.S    19.2    21.6        26.6              28.4             11.9    15.0    -10.2
Curront sudet elanc.               0.4    15.6    15.5    15.4    12.7         8.9              86.0             S2.8   -18.5    -77.2
Capital RIceipt.
Capitol xpooditure                18.6    27.9    21.6    17.4    16.7         9.2              86.0             -8.G    -2.5    -59.6
Overall 0f 1.t                   -10.4   -12.2   -11.S   -4.8    -6.4         4.0                ..              81.0      6.1    198.2
official Capitol Gafnts             ..       ..      ..       ..       ..       ..               ..
Oat.rnal DOrraming (not)           6.0      9.0      4.8      0.9     2.8   -18.6               4.2             -77.2   167.1    542.0
Omestic Nun-bunk Financine          ..                    ..       ..           ..           ..       ..           ..
i tic  sak Fineacing              -0.6      8.9    -0.3       1.4     0.6      1.4                ..           -218.1   -86.9       66.1
Not Oieburaenwto (QJ  i I i ion)                Debt O(utetanding A Diobured (U.N6  iI.)
J. Eit rnul Capita Fi F*,Dodt    - - --------------           -__ - _                  ------ -_______________________________________
and Debt BSrdon Ratio.         190      1962    198a    1964    1988p    19866    1960    192        1UI8    1984    1986p   198.
Public A Puablicly Gsaranted LT    169     8ss       166     l12       iU       ..    1117    1461    1519    16"         17S0
Off;cial Craditr                 s       146      Si       80       26       ..      720     862      860      666      944
Itltileteral                   9       as       26       10      19       ..      14       27      284      268      810
ofWichUCID                 -2        1        1       5       10       ..       89       42       44      48       so
at whic tWA                 1       12        9       a        8       .        22       49      as       62       66
iIwtherel                     W        6s       8       12        9       ..    6SW        2S      s9e      s9W      684
Private Croditor.               124      187      I"4       2       28       ..      896     879       89      898      617
Suppliers                     -1      -11      -18      26       86       ..      18       69       i8o     6s       146
financial ltarkw"            12       198      149       4      -1S       ..      286     490      591      W05      n71
Private  en-*,arentoed LT                             ..          ..        .                     ..
Tots I                              eT 189  88       166     112       8s       ..    1117    1461    1819    1889    1760
DI t4et Credit                      -7       0        0        0        0       ..       6        0        0        0       0
Net Short-Term Capital             -69    -248       84    -228        ..       ..      248     164      1L6S     17o7 660
Totli including IW A Net ST        113       6S    250    -114         ..       ..      6      1648    1s 65    1788    2.0
Sank and    Rtico,                1W9    196S2   1968    1964    1988.   19"              -- --        ----------
==-_ ___         ----    ---- ____                       Notes:
Share of Total LAng-Tore iO
1. 11"of Totalt                    8.8      2.9     2.9      8.1      8.5       .      .       es *otiated data
2. DA as o  at Total               2.0      8.4      8.6     4.0      8.7       ..         p * orelisinary date
S. 0111DA mo U of Total            8.5      6.3     6.7      7.1      7.0
Share of Totai LT Debt Serv Ict
1. lIiD as S of Total              8.7      2.8      1.7     1.2      2.2
2. MA a  SF Tots I                 0.2      0.2     0.2      0.6      0.S
S.   0#104 m- St of Totasl         s.9      2.7      1.9     1.5      2.8
0OD-to-laporto Ritio.
1. Lang-Term D.bt/Exworte        111.8   128.6    1.8   115.4   180.1
2. F CreditlEaports                0.6      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
8. Short-Term Odebt/Eporte        28.6    15.8    18.6    13.1    5f6.3
4. LT*DIWtli OW/Exaports         188.6   189.2  1l9.6   126.8   206.8
il-to-P  Ratioe
1. Long-Term Oabt/0DP             68.8    67.6    72.4    71.1    61.4
2. DlI Credit/l0P                  0.4      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
B. Swl-rt-TergDiUt/00P            14.6      8.8      7.9     8.1    80.5
4. LTDF+ST r0O/GDP                80I.     76.0    80.8    79.2   111.9
Oebt Servico/Baporte
1. PublIc   Guarantaed LT          9.0    18.8    22.0    19.1    27S.
2. Private Non-Guranrteod LT                          .       .
S. Tat.t LT Debt Service           9.0    15.6    22.0    19.1    27.5
4. 1W Reo ctume.   S&rv  oao.
8. Intoreat Only on sr Debt
S. Total (LT*VW ST mnt.)                                                                           -------___. -______



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1987)
Amount (US$ million)
(net of cancellations) 1/
LIC No.       Year   Borrower   Puroose             Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
Five Loans and nine Credits disbursed               99.70    51.69
971 COB      1980   Congo      Petroleum                      5.00      0.30
1179 COB 2/   1982   Congo    Rliver Transport.               17.00      2.46
2298 COB      1983   Congo      Wood Process.       12.00                3.92
2753 COB      1987   Congo      Tech. Assist. II    4.00                 3.89
Total                               115.70    73.69      10.57
of which repaid                      39.10      1.10
Total held by Bank and IDA           76.60    72.59
Total undisbursed                     7.81      2.76     10.57
l/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Credit 1179-COB is denomitzated in SDRs and is shown in US$ equivalent
based on the exchange rate In effet at time of negotiations.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
TIHE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF TM CONGO
STRUCTURAL AMJUST                 LOAN
B. STATENENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of 09130186)
Investent  Fisral              type of             Loan    Equity    Total
No.        Year  Obliqor  b&siness                 -    -            -
- --_-_  _    --                 _ million-
-         1981  SECC       Promtion Compay       -         0.2
75-COB        1984  C.I.B.SA   Lowing & sanwill        1.7    -         1.?
846-COB       1986  C.l.B.Sd   Logging & Samill       0.0     -         0.8
880-COB       1986  Congolaise Utility Poles           1.6     0.2       1.8
des Bois
lmpregnes
TOTAL Comitmnts        4.1      0.4      4.5
TOTAL Comitants
now held by IFC       4.1      0.4      4.5
TOTAL UNDISIURSEO     -        -         l.8



- 42-                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 31
June 15, 1987
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
INTRODUCTION
1.        Early in the 1980s, the Government undertook to lay the
foundation for lasting economic growth, taking into consideration the rapid
rise in oil export earnings and the corresponding growth of budget
receipts. A major objective was to eliminate the chief obstacles to
economic development, beginning with shortcomings in the existing economic
and social infrastructure. Broadly reflecting that priority, the 82-86 Plan
therefore witnessed the launching of major projects financed both with
domestic resources and heavy external borrowing.
2.        The deterioration of the international situation did not permit
us to accomplish this goal. Contrary to our initial objective, we have had
to face increasing economic difficulties. The plunge in oil prices and our
inability to slow down the Government's operating and investment
expenditures at the same rate as the decrease in available national
resources have been the cause of important internal and external imbalances
in the Congolese economy.
3.        As events bore out the pessimistic international outlook, and the
debt burden and deficits of the public and semi-public sectors increased,
the Government instituted a series of austerity measures. In June 1985, it
adopted a Structural Adjustment Program aimed at strengthening public
finances, rehabilitating public enterprises and reviving the economy. This
program soon proved insufficient because of the sudden drop in oil prices
and the weakening of the dollar. In July 1986, the Government negotiated a
standby arrangement with the IMF designed to stabilize the public financial
and monetary situation, restore the balance of payments and start
restructuring the economy. That arrangement has enabled the Congo to
reschedule its debt to the member countries of the Paris Club and
commercial banks. The Government has also obtained an exceptional loan from
France, as well as a commercial bank loan that has not yet been withdrawn.
4.        It has become clear that the seriousness of the Congo's current
financial crisis requires a radical realignment of the Government's
economic policy, particularly with an eye to the new domestic and external
situation, from a medium-term perspective. Accordingly, the Government has
decided to institute a medium-term structural adjustment program to be
carried out in the period 1987-88, for which it has requested technical and
financial support from the World Bank.



%                  ANNEX III
- 43 -                I        Page 2 of 31
THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
OBJECTIVES
5.        The objectives of the structural adjustment program are to: (a)
reestablish overall financial equilibrium independently of the vagaries of
the oil market; (b) lay the foundations for self-sustaining economic growth
over the medium-term, with strong emphasis on development of the non-oil
sectors; and (c) restore the country's credit-worthiness. These goals are
to be achieved mainly by: changing the balance between the roles that the
public and private sectors play in the economy; reforming incentive policy
in order to stimulate private sector initiatives in agriculture and
forestry and encourage small and medium-scale enterprises; and bringing
public sector expenditure into line with available financial resources,
while at the same time ensuring that Government intervention in the economy
becomes more effective. Oil resources will be used mainly to lessen the
debt burden and improve the effectiveness of existing infrastructures.
6.        In that connection, the Government has concurrently undertaken to
carry out its stabilization program with the IMF and to implement a program
of specific actions in the years 1987-88 involving: (a) management of the
economy, (b) incentive policies aimed at the private sector, (c) the public
enterprises, (d) the civil service, (e) sectoral policies.
I - MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
7.        The development strategy outlined above will be completed by
September 1987 by a medium-term framework containing economic and financial
projections, integrating sectoral growth objectives and taking into account
financial constraints. A three-year (1988-90) financing plan ("esquisses
financieres") will be derived from the medium term framework in September
1987, to serve as a guide for preparing the budget and investment program.
8.        The Government will seek to enhance the effectiveness of this
endeavor by introducing a medium-term rolling public investment plan
covering the Central Government and public enterprise sector projects in
progress, as well as those started up in the first year of the PIP, and
their incidence in future years. The first of those documents, covering the
years 1988-90, will be approved by the Government in October 1987. The
Government will introduce a system of program authorizations allowing for
the signing of the financial contracts or agreements relating to investment
expenditures contained in the Public Investment Program, for amounts not to
exceed the figures specified in such authorizations. These program
authorizations, which will be provided for in the Loi de Finances, will be
accompanied by an estimate of the annual financial tranches required for
the project. The annual allocation of payments will be performed in a
manner consistent with the program authorizations and project timetables.
9.        The Loi de Finances, at once an instrument of financial
discipline and a means of implementing Government policy, will be prepared
each year in accordance with the medium-term framework, the "esquisses



ANNEX III
44                             Page 3 of 31
financieres" and the public investment program. The Loi de Finances of 1988
will be ready in November 1987. Its legislative and regulatory provisions
will be reviewed between now and December 1987, in order to prevent the
State from becoming liable for any contract that exceeds budgetary
authorizations and to ensure complete consistency with the measures
mentioned in paragraph 8.
(b)       Macroeconomic and Financial Coordination
10.       In order to assure the success of the structural adjustment
program and the satisfactory formulation of the above-mentioned
instruments, the administrative role of the agencies concerned will be
strengthened, with particular reference to coordination between the
Ministry of Planning and Economics and the Ministry of Finance and Budget.
11.       The Ministry of Planning and Economics will be charged with
preparl g the "esquisses financieres" 1988-90 in cooperation with the
Minist-y of Finance and Budget. In support of this process, the Government
will lie available the necessary means to enable it to integrate
macrctconomic and sectoral policies with existing financial constraints.
12.       The Ministry of Planning and Economics will prepare the public
investment program and associated projects. It will ensure that commitments
for expenditures under each of the projects are consistent with available
resources and external debt as an input in the preparation of the Loi de
Finances, which will be finalized by the Ministry of Finance and Budget.
13.       The Ministry of Finance and Budget will participate in the
preparation of the "esquisses financieres" in cooperation with the Ministry
of Planning. It will also ensure that the draft Loi de Finances is
consistent with macroeconomic and financial projections.
14.       In view of the large number of participants, the Government will
provide the high-level coordination and monitorlng necessary to assure the
success of the structural adjustment program. Such coordination of the
economic, financial, commercial and monetary policies will continue to be
carried out at the highest level by the Groupe de Pilotage chaired by the
Prime Minister and assisted by the ad hoc secretariat instituted by decree
No. 85/1423 of December 7, 1985.
(c)       Public Investment
15.       Existing financial constraints require both the compression of
investment outlays and improvement of their effectiveness. Starting in
1988, their overall programming and respective annual budgets will be in
compliance with the following principles and criteria:
- integrating public enterprise investments into the public investment
program;



- 45-                         ANNEX III
Page 4 of 31
- earmarking a substantial and growing share of investment outlays for the
productive sectors and those sectors that directly support production (the
proportion of the Budget for Investment by the Central Government and by
State Enterprises allocated to these sectors will increase from 50% in 1987
to 66% in 1988 and 1989);
- bringing the contents of the sectoral programs into line with the
development strategy, extending preferences to activities that support
production and reserving direct action by the State to cases meeting the
required conditions: proven viability of the project, priority within the
program, insufficient private initiative. The State focuses its attention
more on the restructurinig of enterprises deemed vital;
- continuing the effort to control investment outlays, New projects will
have to conform strictly to macroeconomic and sectoral objectives, and
reflect emphasis on the need to stimulate the economy and preserve existing
assets. The choice of projects must be based on adequately supervised
feasibility studies which demonstrate the project's economic rate of return
in a satisfactory manner.
16.       As regards the 1987 public investment program, the total
investment package represents an appreciable reduction from former years
and the allocations for 1987 represent an improvement in terms of the
priorities accorded to the productive sectors and to the maintenance of
existing infrastructure. Nevertheless, the Government has decided:
(i)       To assign special priority to maintaining the country's key
infrastructures, and in this context to raise the appropriation for road
maintenance to CFAF 1.2 billion from the 0.7 billion initially earmarked,
and to free the necessary funds to ensure proper maintenance of the
breakwater of the harbor of Pointe-Noire.
(ii)      To reduce the amount allocated for the Epena-Impfondo road from
CFAF 6 billion to 5.5 billion in order to increase the appropriations
earmarked for road maintenance; in addition, the Government will obtain a
firm undertaking from the contractor to complete the project within the
budget of CFAF 12 billion between January 1, 1987, and year-end 1988.
(iii)     Concerning Etumbi-Kunda, the Government will implement the
measures set forth in the statement of March 25, 1987 signed with the World
Bank. This statement calls for an independent consultant to audit the
implementation of the project with operational recommendations. In the
light of those recommendations, the Government, in consultation with the
World Bank, will adopt a revised strategy to ensure the medium- and
long-term viability of the palm-oil sector (December 1987).
17.       The Government confirms that all the projects to be completed in
1988 will be completed as planned and without cost overruns, including the
Epena-Impfondo project in the amount of CFAE 6.5 billion for 1988 and the
CHU from Brazzaville, and in compliance with the limit of CFAF 20 billion
for the whole project. The 1988 investment budget will therefore be the



- 46 -                       ANNEX III
Page 5 of 31
last to reflect the implementation of the major projects undertaken under
the 1982-1986 five-year plan after a number of those projects were
discontinued or reduced in size. The draft investment budget will be
available in November 1987.
(d) Management of the Public Debt
18.       After an initial rescheduling of the external debt under the
auspices of the Paris and London Clubs in 1986, the management of the
public debt will be based on a medium-term financial strategy and stringent
control of commitments undertaken by the State.
-    Given the burden of servicing the debt and the sharp drop in oil
revenues, the Government will approach the Paris Club in 1988 and
the London Club in 1989 to request new reschedulings for the
years 1988-91 and 1989-91, respectively.
-    During the period, the Government will not accumulate external
arrears.
-    During the period, the Government will limit non-concessional
loan commitments or guarantees with maturities of less than 12
years. Non-concessional loans' with maturities of one to less
than six years will not be contracted. Short-term (less than one
year) loans will be taken out under normal commercial
circumstances. These conditions do not, however, cover loan
guarantees for the development of oil production.
-    As regards the control of loans guaranteed by the State, an
executive order was issued in September 1986 defining the
procedures for granting guarantees, including those designed to
verify their compliance with the Loi de Finances.
-    With respect to management of the Caisse Congolaise
d'Amortissement the Government will strengthen its internal and
external debt accounting systems and institute a management
training program.
(e) Management of Public Finances
19.       A fundamental objective of the structural adjustment program
relative to public finance is to bring operating expenses and non-oil
revenues into balance by 1991.  The Government has already adopted a set of
fiscal and budgetary measures and will take additional measures aimed at
achieving 70% fulfillment of that objective in 1987 and 80% in 1988.
20.       To that end the Government will adopt, by June 1987, the
conclusions of the studies conducted in 1985 and 1986 on a comprehensive
tax reform with a view to its implementation beginning January 1988. Given
the foreseeable negative immediate impact on government revenues because of
the reduction of certain tax rates designed to encourage private productive



ANNEX III
Page 6 of 31
economic activity, it will deploy, from the second half of 1987, a
contingent equipped to combat tax and customs fraud, for which it is
negotiating support from the French agency FAC.
(f) Management of Oil Surpluses - Reserve Funds
21.       To ensure that oil surpluses contribute to the economic security
and well-being of present and future generations, the Government will adopt
specific provisions for the use of oil surpluses. The surpluses will be
earmarked, in order of priority, for the settlement of internal arrears,
the reduction of the outstanding external debt, and finally for the
financing of investments of proven economic feasibility, and for the
establishment of a petroleum reserve fund. The definition and magnitude of
those surpluses, and the mechanism for utilizing or placing them, will be
the subject of a detailed analysis in 1987 and will be appropriately
detailed and the relevant mechanisms established before July 1988.
II - STIMULATION OF PRIVATE SECTOR ACTIVITIES
22.       The Government has adopted a policy aimed at encouraging the
development of the non-oil productive sectors. In that connection, it
attaches particular importance to the promotion of private initiative and
investment.
(a) Pricing Policy
23.       Under the standby arrangement entered into with the International
Monetary Fund in July 1986, the Government is committed to rendering its
pricing and marketing policy progressively more flexible.
24.       The list of price-controlled products has been reduced from 38
products to 11 regarded as basic necessities (decree 86/998 of October 15,
1986). Between now and March 1988, the Government will reduce this list
from 11 to 9 items. The price-controlled products do not receive any
direct or indirect subsidy.
25.       The system of prices for other local commodities has been made
more flexible. The formerly controlled prices are, under decree 86/1014 of
November 3, 1986, subjected to official approval ("regime d'homologation").
The prices of commodities subject to this system are applied after the
producers have submitted documentation justifying the proposed price to the
appropriate Government agency. In the case of locally manufactured items
competing with imported goods not subject to the system of margins,
"homologation" will be abolished.
26.       Controlled prices for services (8) have been raised considerably
in 1986 and 1987, in conjunction with the IMF standby arrangement. The
purpose of these price increases was to put the finances of the enterprises
concerned on a sound footing.



- 48 -                        ANNEX III
Page 7 of 31
27.       The review of tariffs for these services is part of the program
for public enterprJse reform being carried out bv the Government with the
support of the World Bank; the Governtment's objective is to establish a
tariff rationalization method, that takes into account the long-term
marginal cost.
28.       The Government is currently holding discussions with private
Importers or. the margin rates applicable to imports subject to the margin
control system. Between now and December 1987, the Government will group
imports into three categories: basic necessities, intermediary items,
luxury items and others. Between now and March .1988, the luxury items will
be excluded from the margin control system.
29.       The marketing of agricultural commodities and prices paid to
producers were liberalized in 1986. Prices of goods purchased from public
marketing boards are fixed by the Government, however, in order to
guarantee fair prices to the producers.
30.       At the end of 1987 the Government, together with the private
entrepreneurs, will assess the new marketing and producer price system
instituted in 1986, to evaluate its effects and explore the possibility of
further liberalization.
(b) Foreign Trade Policy
31.       The Government follows an open trade policy.  However, an import
twining procedure ("procedure de jumelage") applies to products imported
from UDEAC member countries, i.e. mineral water, batteries, footwear, soap
and foams. The Government intends to replace this procedure with an
appropriate customs tariff by March 1988. It will request that this item
be placed on the agenda for consideration in the next meeting of UDEAC.
32.       The granting of import licenses does not give rise to any
restriction or quota other than for reasons of public safety or health.
These licenses are used for statistical purposes to improve customs
control. However, a study on the replacement of the license system by a
declarative system will be completed by October 1987 for introduction in
1988. Export authorizations will be replaced by December 1987 by export
declarations (except for some items such as precious metals and elements of
the nation's capital wealth).
(c) Marketing Policy
33.       The trading authorities' monopoly on foodstuffs (OCV) and coffee
and cacao (OCC) was abolished in 1986. The Government is currently
studying the redefinition of the role of those authorities and meat res for
the encouragement of private marketing efforts. Appropriate measures based
on that study will be taken starting January 1988.
34.       The products subjected to the OFNACOM import monopoly have been
reduced in number to four by executive 6298 of July 4, 1986 (rice, tomato



ANNEX III
- 49-                             Page   o-f 31
concentrate, salt fish, salt), from the previous ten. Maintaining a
monopoly on those commodities essentially reflects the desire to preserve
the financial equilibrium of OFNACOM and its marketing missions within the
national territory. The monopoly of the Office Congolais d'Informatique
(Congolese Data Processing Authority) will be abolished by December 1987.
The exemptions from the OCB monopoly granted to major producers were
broadened in earlv 1986 to small Congolese producers. From August 1987,
such exemptions will be granted by the Ministry charged with responsibility
for forestry and wood products and no longer by OCB. The situation of the
other monopolies will continue to be studied. A plan to reduce the number
of existing monopolies will be discussed with the IBRD between now and
March 1988.
(d)  The Promotion of Private Investments and the SMEs
35.       The Government intends to actively promote domestic investment
and direct foreign investment. In particular, it attaches great importance
to the development of private small and medium enterprises, whose role in
the economic development process was confirmed by the Congolese Labor Party
at its Third Congress of July 1984. Policy coordination with
representatives of the private sector and the various social partners will
be bolstered in order to:
-    complete and specify before year-end 1987 the measures designed
to improve the legislative and regulatory framework, adapt it to
the needs of specific sectors and make it more flexible in order
to encourage entrepreneurs and investors;
-    define and establish in 1988 the procedures and agencies to be
employed for continuing coordination between the State and the
social partners.
Tax reform, currently under consideration, will be introduced in 1988. It
is being designed to take account of the specific conditions of each
sector. In order to lessen the tax burden to a level more likely to
provide incentives, the Government will propose in the Loi de Finances 1988
that the corporate tax rate be reduced by four points, from 49 to 45%.
Accompanying measures will be taken to fight tax evasion, in order to avoid
any loss of State revenues despite the lower rates.
36.       Law 010/86 of July 31, 1986 provides for the designation PME
(SME) to refer to Petites et Moyennes Entreprises (Small and Medium
Enterprises). Enterprises that qualify for that designation are entitled
under said law to tax and custom privileges, special treatment regarding
government contracts and automatic issuance of a merchant card. Between
now and the end of 1987 this law will be harmonized with several other
provisions:
-    Law 50/83 of April 4, 1983 regulating access to the status of
merchant will be reviewed in the course of 1987 in order to bring



ANNEX III
-50-                       Page 9 of 31
it into line with the principles of the investment code and the
spirit of Law 19/86, and to establish a simplified procedure.
-    The various provisions regulating access to the status of
contractor and investments will be thoroughly revised to ensure
consistency and clarity (Investment Code, decree regulating
contracts, Law 50/83 and Law 010/86).
A study of the above will be carried out and its provisional conclusions
will be adopted by August 1987.
37.       A consultation will be held with the various social partners
regardi.ig labor legislation. In particular, the responsibilities of the
National Employment and Labor Authority (Office National de l'Emploi et de
la Main d'Oeuvre) will be reformulated for the purpose of facilitating
adjustments between the labor supply and demand markets. To accomplish
this, the Government will complete the available studies and prepare an
acceptable restructuring plan by January 1988.
38.       The Government has furthermore created SME support structures:  a
guarantee and support fund to facilitate access to credit, a national SME
development agency and a national small business agency for technical and
management support. The Government will determine in the course of 1987
the measures to enhance the operations of those support structures and make
them more effective. Those measures will take effect early in 1988.
39.       The Government also intends to promote domestic and direct
foreign investment. To that end, incentives will be created to enable
government employees to switch to business careers (by offeritng leaves of
absence, for instance) and to facilitate access to credit by local
businesses. Contacts will be developed with professional organizations
abroad.
(e) Restructuring of the Banking Sector
40.       Again with a view to stimulate economic activity, the Government
has as objective to restructure the banking sector in order to permit banks
to play their role of financial intermediaries for the benefit of the
economic agents who are their clients. To this effect, the following
actions will be adopted:
-    A study of the sector (in progress) will be completed by October
1987, and on that basis, a program for the revitalization and
reorganization of the banks will be launched in 1988.
41.       A plan for the settlement (through rescheduling, deferral and
special arrangement) of the debts of public enterprises owed to local
commercial banks will be drawn up no later than December 1987, for
implementation in 1988.



- 51 -                          ANNEX III
Page 10 of 31
42.       The procedures for granting and managing credits (ceilings,
processes, follow-up) will be reviewed between now and December 31, 1987.
Banking regulations will be reviewed and gaps filled in order to ensure
greater discipline in the sector (no later than December 1987).
III - PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
43.       The Government considers restructuring of its public enterprise
sector to be one of the cornerstones of the current phase of the structural
adjustment program.
44.       The 97 Congolese enterprises that are entirely or partly
state-owned and make up the public enterprise sector have long been an
important part of our development strategy. However, their performance has
proved disappointing, and the situation has continued to deteriorate in
spite of our past efforts to revitalize the sector. Given the severe
financial constraints currently facing the Congo, we can no longer tolerate
the poor performance of the sector and the resulting accumulation of
substantial losses. We are determined to make major changes that will
rationalize and restructure this sector and thus achieve renewed growth.
Such rationalization will be consistent with the Government's strategy for
establishing a new balance between the roles of the State and the private
sector in the economy.
45.       The public enterprise reform program has two main objectives:  to
reduce immediately the sector's financial adverse impact on the economy,
and to improve the efficiency of those enterprises which, for strategic
reasons, we have chosen to retain in the public sector. These objectives
will be achieved through the array of measures described below, which are
tailored to the capacity of our institutions, the available financial
resources and the socio-economic impact of the reform.
46.       The strategy seeks to:  (1) alter the regulatory and
institutional environment in which the sector operates; (2) cut back and
rationalize the direct financial support from the Government; (3) encourage
initiatives in each public enterprise aimed at increasing revenues and
cutting costs; and (4) carry out the program of divestiture by the State.
The key enterprises (SNE, SNDE, ATC, ONPT, HYDRO-CONGO, CORAP, SUCO,
CIDOLOU, LINA-CONGO; SCBO, SFAC and the units of the rationalized
fats-and-oils subsector: SANGHAPALM, RNPC, HUILKA), which represent about
55% of the value added of the sector in 1985 and the major efforts and
restructuring, in collaboration with international donors, especially CCCE,
ADB, EIB and IBRD. As regards the other PEs, however, only limited
resources will be available over the medium term.
The Government has adopted the following principles to guide the reform:
(1) greater autonomy and accountability in public-enterprise management,
(2) separation between the roles assumed by the State as entity responsible
for overall economic guidance and owner or consumer of goods and services
produced bv the public enterprises, and (3) separation of the enterprises'
sometimes contradictory social and economic objectives.



52 -                   ~~~~~ANNEX III
- 52 -                           Page 11 of 31
47.       Our public enterprise reform program includes a wide range of
actions of which some were initiated several years ago. In 1980, the
Government took steps to bring more independent management to the ten most
important public enterprises -- the so-called pilot enterprises -- and
restructure their finances. This was followed by the preparation of
performance contracts, the creation of a central coordination unit in the
Prime Minister's Office, the establishment of centralized procedures for
monitoring public enterprises at CENAGES and the setting up of the
Commissariat National aux Comptes (CNC).
The structural adjustment program adopted by the Government in 1985
continued the effort to improve the performance of public enterprises by
introducing measures designed to instill greater discipline in the sector.
At the same time, the Government conducted studies on cross-debts and
overstaffing in public enterprises as well as strategic audits of most
public enterprises, thus laying the groundwork for a more complete
institutional and financial reform.
These early efforts were recently strengthened within the framework of the
IMF-supported stabilization program approved in 1986. As stated in our
Letter of Intent, we raised the tariffs of some enterprises, cut the wage
bill in six key enterprises by 5%, abolished certain marketing monopolies
(OCC, OCV), restricted OFNACOM's monopoly as well as the Government's
direct financial support of public enterprises to CFAF 15 billion in 1986
and made our price-control system more flexible for all enterprises,
including public ones.
On the basis of the reforms introduced in 1986, the Government is now ready
to launch a wide-ranging public enterprise reform program. Based on
existing studies and following the strategy described below, we intend to
Implement an action plan that will be broken down into a number of key
components for the period 1987-1990.
(a) Rationalization of the Sector
48.       On the basis of strategic audits or individual reviews for 80
PEs, a large program for rationalization of the sector will be implemented.
Given the breadth of the program, the Government's effort will focus on the
following enterprises according to the timetable indicated below:
-    Establishment of the legal framework for liquidation and
appointment of the first liquidators by June 1987;
-    Liquidation of the eight enterprises in the course of 1987 and
search for partners, starting in 1987, for the eleven enterprises
in which equity participation is to be offered, beginning with
OFNACOM, IAD, CIDOLOUJ, COPEMAR and SCBO. The search for
investors in conjunction with these divestitures will be kept
flexible by examining the widest possible range of alternatives
for participation (legal form, scope of participation, magnitude,
status of partners);



53 -ANNEX III
53                            Page 12 of 31
-    Complete divestiture from UAB, SOCOME and SIAP in 1987;
-    Incorporation of OCF into the administration in 1987;
-    Rehabilitation of the 14 key enterprises, starting with SNE,
SNDE, ATC, ONPT, HC, CORAF, CIDOLOU and SUCO, according to the
timetable defined for each one of them before the end of the
first half of 1987; then LINA-CONGO, SCBO, SFAC, SANGRAPALM, RNPC
and RUILKA, according to the timetable drawn up by June 30, 1988.
49.       The few non-key enterprises remaining in the State sector will be
contained: subsidies will be limited to amounts compatible with the
State's financial objectives, staff will be cut, extension investments will
be halted. Their rehabilitation will be reviewed and then implemented no
later than 1990.
(b) Financial Restructuring
50.       In order to provide a sound financial basis for the reform and
the sector rationalization, it is necessary to settle the debts of those
PEs selected for partial or complete divestiture, and to finance the
rehabilitation of those PEs to be rehabilitated. The Government will
settle between now and December 1987 the cross-debts among public
enterprises that had fallen due by the end of 1983. The Government is
committed to:
-    establishing a plan for settlement of cross-debts among the 14
priority enterprises by December 1987 and implementing it by June
30, 1988;
-    finalizing a debt settlement plan by December 1987 on that basis
assuming the residual costs of the liquidation and divestiture
program in 1988.
(c)       Financial Discipline
51,       Financial relations between the PEs and other economic agents
i.e. the State, the banks, the private commercial partners and the other
PEs are to be subject to strict standards of financial discipline defining
the respective obligations and rights of the parties concerned and ensuring
greater financial transparency among the various economic agents. Various
measures have already been instituted in this regard, such as the adoption
of onlending principles and of a code of conduct for the settlement of
debts between the State and PEs. Those steps will be supplemented by the
following actions:
- annual agreement (1987-1990) on the investment program of each priority
PE, whatever the mode of finaucing used, and on the amount and conditions
of possible financial support from the State;



- 54 -                           ANNEX III
Page 13 of 31
- agreement regarding the transfer under appropriate conditions to the PEs
of assets financed by the State and operated by the PEs. This will be done
before July 1988;
- requirement that each priority PE submit final financial statements no
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, starting with the
1987 fiscal year;
- limitation of the role of State comptrollers and corresponding
improvement of internal audit systems starting in 1988 in selected
enterprises;
- review of and agreement on local credit ceilings for each of the PEs
remaining in the public sector as of 1987;
- immediate authorization to PEs to suspend service or delivery in case of
non-payment of bills within 120 days;
- increase of budgetary allocations for consumption of water, electricity
and telecommunications by Government agencies and local governments
beginning in 1988 (cf. paragraph 12); introduction in 1989 of billing based
on actual consumption; and introduction in 1988 of a program to reduce and
control consumption;
- establishment of ceilings for gratuities in 1988 and integration of the
gratuities granted by the Government in the annual budget starting in 1989;
- continuation of the external audit program (20 PEs per year) by the CNC.
(d)       Rehabilitation of the Eight Key Enterprises
52.       A rehabilitation program including reorganization, cost and
investment reduction, and improved management will be launched for SNE,
SNDE, ATC, ONPT, HYDRO-CONGO, CORAP, CIDOLOU and SUCO by June 1987.
Relevant measures for each enterprise are specified in the attached
outlines. On the basis of the rehabilitation programs, financial contracts
defining the reciprocal financial obligations between the State and each
key enterprise will be signed (four in December 1987, three in July 1988 at
least, and prior to those dates in all cases debt settlement).
(e)       Staff Reduction and Personnel Management
53.       As part of the program to privatize some public enterprises and
to rehabilitate others, layoffs are to be expected in the period 1987-90
and will be carried out as follows:
- each key enterprise will continue to apply in 1987 the wage restraints
introduced in 1986 and prepare a staff reduction plan no later than
December 31, 1987, for implementation in 1988 and 1989;



- 55 -                           ANNEX III
Page 14 of 31
- a progressive reduction of personnel of the non-key enterprises totaling
1,600 employees will start in 1987.
54.       Regarding personnel management practices, the Government will
study the remuneration systems in public enterprises during the second half
of 1987 and will on that basis introduce, in 1988, new personnel statutes
containing merit promotion and salary-increase provisions. Each key
enterprise will implement an improved personnel-management program
beginning in 1988. In addition, regulations for the secondment of personnel
between public enterprises and the civil service will be adopted in 1987.
(f)       Training
55.       To improve PE performance, CENAGES will launch a management
training program by December 1987. In addition, the Government will prepare
a technical and professional training strategy before the end of 1987 and
launch it in 1988.
(g)       Legal and Institutional Framework
56.       In the interest of PE sector rationalization and to improve
enterprise performance, the Government will:
- establish the legal framework necessary for divestiture by the State,
prepare regulations governing the liquidation and transfer of assets to the
balance sheets of the PWs in connection with their liquidation by September
30, 1987 and revise the legislation pertaining to operating contracts,
leasing, management contracts, and other matters by December 31, 1987;
- rewrite the existing legal texts between now and December 1988 in order
to rationalize relations between the State and the PEs and give PE
management more responsibility. Specifically, more autonomy will be granted
to PE managers by rationalizing the size, composition and chairmanship of
the boards of directors;
- redefine in 1988 the roles and relationships of the various PE control,
monitoring and advisory agencies and strengthen their technical capacity to
perform their tasks.
IV. THE CIVIL SERVICE
57.       In 1985, the Government undertook a program aimed at stabilizing
the number of civil servants and slowing the growth of overall wage costs.
In that connection, it took the following major steps in 1986:
- limited recruiting from an average of 4,500 new employees in previous
years to 2,687;
- accelerated attrition by lowering the retirement age to 55, scrutinizing
government payrolls and eliminating improper salary payments and removing



- 56 -                         ANNEX III
Page 15 of 31
certain obstacles to voluntary separation, all of which resulted in the net
hiring of 368 employees in 1986 as against some 4,000 in previous years;
- suspended the financial effects caused by advancement and promotion, and
froze organization charts;
These combined measures brought down the growth bf overall wage costs from
a past annual rate of 13-15% to 4.2% for 1986.
58.       In 1987 it intends to stabilize the size of the civil service
force and initiate additional analyses. The bulk of the initial measures to
terminate civil servants began to make themselves felt in 1986 and will be
completed in 1987. Some 4,000 mid-level or senior professional and
management officials are currently unemployed and can expect little else
until the economic adjustment now in progress opens up other employment
opportunities. This will, however, be a slow process. The comprehensive
fiscal reform will at first tend to reduce non-oil revenues, increasing
them only at a later stage. The Government nonetheless intends to pursue
its policy of reducing the ratio of wage costs to non-oil receipts by at
least one percentage point in 1988 and 1989, then 2% the following year, in
order to achieve in 1990 a ratio of 63% as against 74.2% in 1985, 73.5% in
1986, and 68% in 1987.
In addition to suspending pay raises in connection with advancement and
promotion and freezing organization charts, despite low salary levels, the
Government will implement a number of measures simultaneously directed at
boosting non-oil revenues, suspending unjustified expenditures, reducing
staff and improving productivity, as follows:
Measures and Timetable Concerning the Management of State Personnel
Objective: Reduce the ratio of wage costs to non-oil revenue from 68% in
1987 to 67% in 1988, 66% in 1989, and then more than 2 points per year from
1990 to reach 63% in 1990.
- In 1987, limit public sector employment, both in terms of numbers and
cost to a maximum of one entry equal to one separation, so as to achieve
zero sum in both numbers and cost.
- Systematically check, throughout 1987 and until December 1988, the
authenticity of the diplomas of all civil servants.
- Before June 1987, stop improper remuneration of trainees In France.
- Before June 1987, account for trainees outside of France and stop
improper remunerations before October 1987.
- Define before September 1987 a five-year schedule limiting the number of
places offered by schools engaged in training for the civil service
exclusively, in order to reduce over time, the pressure on public
recruiting.



ANNEX III
- 57 -                       Page 16 of 31
- By the same date, implement the early retirement system adopted in 1986.
- Before September 1987, establish a permanent unit to monitor public
employees at the Ministry of Finance and Budget, in liaison with the
control unit within the Ministry of Labor.
- By the same date, remove the last legal obstacles to voluntary
separation.
- Before October 1987, adopt a package of measures to provide incentives
for voluntary separation form the civil service.
- Before October 1987, organize the means to conduct a detailed analysis of
jobs by function, region and place of assignment, in order to detect ar'd
locate staff redundancies as well as shortages, and begin said analvais by
January 1988.
- Before December 1987, complete the study of an early retirement system
and adopt its provisions by Jtmuary 1988.
- Audit the procedures of the Payroll Office in order to detect, before
December 1987, those permitting payment of wages, benefits and other forms
of compensation to employees not or no longer entitled to them, and replace
such procedures before January 1988 with others more likely to guard
against all types of abuse and fraud.
- Before December 1987, examine the potential impact on public and private
employment and the economy in general of an authorization to engage in
private exercise of certain occupations that are at present exclusively
public.
- Before January 1988, revise the general statute of the civil service in
order to allow transfers of employ es only after three years at the same
post.
- Before January 1988, create a fund for rebates on loans to help
Government employees who separate voluntarily from the civil service as
well as graduating high school and university students, establish
themselves in the private sector.
- Before January 1988, establish a system to help decide and statistically
control wage-related expenditures in order to combat possible new forms of
fraud.
- Before April 1988, study and set ceilings on most benefits in kind
attaching to certain functions in the form of fixed monthly allowances.
- Adopt and implement before April 1988 measures authorizing the private
exercise of certain occupations that are at present exclusively public.



ANNEX III
- 58 -                          Page 17 of 31
- Systematically control, before June 1988, the general and special
statutes with respect to advancement and eliminate non-regulatory
incentives.
- Complete before July 1988, and apply the conclusions of before October
1988, an analysis of civil service jobs and the detection of surpluses and
insufficiencies.
- Before July 1988, revise the general statutes and the special statutes or
other provisions relevant thereto, for the purpose of:
. abolishing all clauses conducive to concentrating civil
servants in Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire to the detriment of the interior
of the country;
. linking promotions to service in the interior of the country
for certain groups such as teachers, health workers, and agricultural
experts;
. limiting nonproductive procedures such as certification of
routine documents;
7 attuning rules on separation and retirement to the job market;
* ensuring that recruitment be based on competition.
V. SECTORAL POLICIES
A. Education Sector
59.       The development of human resources is one of the Government's
main concerns in its effort to achieve economic growth and diversification
in the medium term.
60.       The educational system suffers from a number of imbalances.
- The number of students has risen steeply in the last ten years.
- But that growth has been accompanied by a decline in the quality of
education and stems as much from the rising repeater rate and the
increasing length of studies as from demographic trends.
- General studies account for most of the education explosion. Technical
and specialized training represents only 9% of teaching personnel and only
13% of the students are pursuing scientific and technical courses.
- The education budget has increased substantially over the last ten years.
Outlays for operating the system have risen from 10.5 billion to 45 billion
between 1975 and 1985. But the amount invested in the educational system
has remained at about 2-3 billion per year, and spending on education as a
share of the national budget has decreased. The imbalance in the
allocation of credits within the educational system has increased (thus
scholarships at the secondary and higher levels, valued at CFAF 10 billion
in 1985, correspond to two-thirds of the basic education budget, which
covers 85% of those in school).



- 59 -
ANNEX III
page la of 31
61.       On the basis of those findings the Government intends to
formulate a program for the reorganization of the educational system by
October 1988.
- A clear priority will be assigned to basic education, particularly the
lower elementary grades. The aim is to make teaching at the basic level
more effective by improving teacher training, school equipment, teaching
materials, etc. The effort on behalf of basic education will have to be
reflected in its share of the budget.
- Since overall budgetary constraints prevent any significant increase in
the educational budget as a whole, the shift in emphasis will imply a
change in the secondary and higher education budget. In order to minimize
any adverse impact on secondary and higher education, existing provisions
as regards efficiency will be strictly enforced, especially those
pertaining to the number of repeaters.
- Technical and vocational educ ion will also receive special attention.
The medium-term (horizon 1992) objective is for technical and vocational
education to absorb 15% of the school population instead of the present 9%.
62.       A number of measures will be taken to that end:
- Establishment of all-purpose colleges or high schools where general
education sections would exist alongside technical ones, in order to
optimize the utilization of existing equipment and teachers of general
subjects;
- Creation of curricula in currently nonexistent or under-represented
areas, e.g. industrial services and especially in agriculture;
- Introduction of short, very practical courses.
Generally speaking, in conformity with the technical and vocational
curriculum, the current system leading to diplomas such as the Bac
Technique will be reorganized for the benefit of programs aimed at
producing employable graduates more quickly and efficiently.
63.       On-the-job technical training or apprenticeships will be
encouraged by setting up and standardizing apprenticeships under master
craftsmen. Provisions designed to promote the introduction of productive
work at school will be more systematically applied, especially in rural
areas.
As regards vocational training, a twofold approach will be used to help
young people not in school and employed individuals. Under this approach:
- Basic vocational training will be provided for the 10,000 young people
with qualifications below F6 who arrive on the labor market each year.
Such training should be as decentralized as possible and focus primarily on
agriculture.



- 60 -
ANNEX III
Page 19 of 31
- A system of continuing training and rapid retraining of the various
categories of personnel will be established for the purpose of limiting the
social consequences of the public enterprise reform. This system will be
studied rapidly and implemented in accordance with sectoral priorities and
with close coordination between enterprises, labor unions and the technical
ministries.
- ONEHO will help to further this continuing training system, but will not
be given a monopoly over it. The participation of employers and
professional organizations will be developed. Incentives will be offered
to that end, especially by revising the regulations governing deductions
for training costs (currently limited to 2/3 of the total).
64.       Improvement of teacher training will be another priority of the
Government. This effort will entail retraining of teachers currently
employed in order to upgrade their general cultural background and their
teaching skills. In addition, internal organization measures will be taken
to optimize the utilization of teaching personnel.
65.       Policy regarding study grants is currently under review in both
its qualitative and quantitative aspects:
- In order to lighten the burden of study grants on the national budget,
they will be limited to a total of CFAF 6 billion in 1987 and 1989, which
is 60% of 1986 expenditures. A number of steps have been taken in this
regard: institution of a competition for university scholarships, and more
stringent controls with respect to disbursement. These steps will apply to
1987 and 1988.
- In qualitative terms, the aim is to redirect the granting of scholarships
to key areas and to improve the planning underlying such grants, bearing in
mind the needs defined in consultation with the users of the educational
system and the National Commission on Human Resources.
66.       The full range of measures designed to improve the functioning of
the educational system will cost too much to be financed entirely through
the national budget. Increased participation in financing the cost of
education will therefore be sought from the users. Such participation can
take several forms:
- participation of parents of pupils receiving basic education in school
construction;
- the sharing of management of certain technical and vocational curricula
with employers or professional associations, etc.
67.       The Government will strengthen educational planning services.
Consultation among all users of the educational and vocational training
system will be developed under the auspices ol the National Commission on
Human Resources.



- 61 -                        ANNEX III
Page 20 of 31
B. Agricultural Sector
68.       The main thrust of the agricultural development strategy was
described in the report entitled "Bilan agro-alimentaire et definition des
grandes options d'une nouvelle politique agricole pour les prochaines
annees" which was presented to the Central Committee of the Congolese Labor
Party at its fifth session of November 1986. This new policy will be fully
spelled out at the meeting of the National Council on Agriculture which the
Government intends to convene before the end of 1987. Agricultural
development strategy will be aimed primarily at the gradual elimination of
the major obstacles to growth in agricultural output, both for export and
for domestic consumption, and it will pursue this aim by:
- an appropriate prices and tariffs policy;
- a shift in emphasis by the State to further production, with specific
reference to rural production (rehabilitation and upkeep of rural roads,
reorientation of research and extension to respond to the specific needs of
the peasants and credits), with direct State intervention subordinated to
certain conditions (proven viability of the project, priority of the
project in the program, insufficient private initiative);
- continued streamlining of agricultural support agencies (OVC, OCC, etc.);
- incentives to urban dwellers to reconvert to agricultural endeavors and
incentives for the use of urban savings in agriculture;
- pursuit of measures to Improve marketing.
Coffee-cacao
69.       In an effort to boost output, the Government in May raised
producer prices substantially: 23-28%, according to quality, for cacao,
100% for hulled arabica, 45% for cherry coffee. The Government further
abolished the OCC marketing monopoly. A number of other steps were either
pursued or taken rapidly, including:
- starting in 1988, through the coffee-cacao authority, encouragement for
the establishment of semi-industrial plantations of 25 ha average size
owned by private individuals, and an effort to find means of carrying out
this program;
continuation of the OCC/ADB extension program;
- encouragement, beginning in the 1987 crop year, to planters to market
green coffee.
Before the end of 1987 the Government will study:
- marketing improvements in conjunction with the liberalization of
marketing, with the co clusions of this study to be issued in 1988;



- 62 -                          ANNEX III
Page 21 of 31
- the outlook for the coffee-cacao subsector, including an analysis of
constraints (agronoric, human resources, etc.) and economic incentives to
develop it;
- measures involving pricing policy, the objective being to keep producer
prices at a profitable level while taking international prices into
account.
Food Crops
70.       The Government has set the goal of food self-sufficiency by the
year 2000. The current deficit is very important. Should the present
trend continue (if not worsen), food imports could soar from CFAF 70
billion in 1985 to 120 billion in the year 2000, to 220 billion in the year
2010. Such a course would be unsustainable for the country. In pursuit of
its strategy the Government will identify before the end of 1987 the
measures referred to in the report cited in paragraph 68 above and, in
1988, begin to implement an action plan to develop food crops and market
gardening.
The main priorities of that plan of action will be:
- improvement of marketing, storage facilities, means of transport and
credit to private operators to supplement the abolition of OCV's marketing
monopoly in 1986, in connection with which measures will be defined by
March 1988 on the basis of the study now in progress;
- upgrading of service roads, to be included in the public investment
program;
- cutting losses of products following the harvest;
- encouraging the processing of products by, among other things,
disseminating information about equipment (solar dryers, corn huskers,
"foufou" aills, peanut shellers, palm-oil extraction units, rice processing
factories);
- encouraging operators to use better packaging.
Customs tariff policy will be studied in the course of 1987 in order to
define measures to avoid profitable speculation. These measures will be
instituted gradually beginning in 1988.
71.       All those measures and actions will be bolstered by institutional
reforms involving:
- research and development: its scope will cover research now in progress
for the purpose of improving crops by means of better soil management
through crop rotation, combining crop-growing with cattle-raising, the use
of fertilizer, mechanization, etc.;



- 63 -                         ANNEX III
Page 22 of 31
- extension: the Government wishes to remedy the inadequacy and weakness of
current regional extension services. The aim is to improve the extension
system by bringing the extension worker and the producer together so that
technical advice can be made more relevant to needs. The approach to
bringing this about will be based on the training and visits system defined
as part of the pilot operation financed by the World Bank. Extension
efforts should be simple, inexpensive and effective. Producers, especially
small farmers, should be drawn into the process of determining needs and
defining and executing programs so as to reduce costly supervision.
Progress already made in this area. mainly thanks to FAO projects (ovine
extension projects, coffee-cacao project, etc.), will be preserved and
developed.
Finally, the Government will ensure that a real link is maintained between
training, research and extension. Contact among the regional research
stations must be strengthened.
- Agricultural credit: the Government is committed to creating an
agricultural credit facility after a detailed study that should be
completed well before the end of 1987.
- Agricultural administration: continuation of the measures designed to
simplify the organization chart and make it more effective.
Animal Husbandry
72.       Poultry
The Government has decided to develop poultry production to counter the
national meat shortages. The Government will encourage farmers and private
producers to produce poultry, particularly around urban centers such as
Brazzaville, Pointe-Noire, Loubomo, Nkayi and Owando, using local resources
as much as possible (construction materials, animal feed) in order to keep
production costs down and to sell at competitive prices. To that end, the
Government will attempt to overcome the principal constraints currently
hindering the development of poultry farming (in areas of feed, marketing,
import duty policy).
73.       Livestock
The Government initiated a cattle-production and ranching program in the
early 1970s. During the 1982-1986 five-year plan that program was
supplemented by a sheep-production program in rural areas with the
assistance of FAO. These programs have increased the numbers of livestock
without, however, ending the national shortage of red meat (more than 5,000
tons). Within the framework of the forest and savanna agriculture
development effort, this policy will seek to develop the association of
crop-development and livestock-production. Accordingly, the Government
will once again foster the production of cattle and small ruminants, in
rural areas, with the State intervening only as a source of support (for
training, credit, veterinary products).



- 64 -                           ANNEX III
Page 23 of 31
C. Wood Products
74.       After crude oil, wood products represent the most important
exports of the People's Republic of the Congo (approximately CFAF 20
billion). Output has stabilized at about 550,000 m3 of veneers and 60,000
m3 of sawnvood, but potential output is appreciably higher.
75.       The Government has undertaken a number of actions and measures to
Improve the forestry situation:
- In 1985 a credit of CFAP 6 billion, initiated by the BNDC, was extended
to all forestry producers (mixed, private and State).
- Decree 85/778 of June 4, 1985 established a sectoral commission to set
purchase prices. The commission's first action was to set the OCB mark-up
at 1,500 F/m3 compared to 8-12,000 F previously.
- Since 1986 several economic and fiscal incentives have been granted to
the forestry sector, to supplement those under the Investment Code:
. exemption from taxes and import duties of equipment related to
forestry;
t tax rates reduced to 51 for heavy equipment and spare parts;
, exemption from TCA and TIT (value added taxes) on transport.
The densities assumed by ATC in calculating transport rates have been
modified in favor of the forestry sector, All these measures will be
retained. The value of the incentives granted amounts to 3-5% of the gross
revenue of the enterprises.
76.       The Government intends to continue actions designed to develop
production. The output target is 1 zillion m3 a-round 1990-1992. A number
of steps will be taken in that regard:
- With respect to State-owned enterprlsees and mixed companies: SNEB and
SONATRAB will be merged in the first half of 1987, shares of SCBO and
CETRAB stock will be offered to third parties, OCF will be integrated into
the administration, SFAC and the Congolaise des Bois Impregnes (Congolese
impregnated wood company) will be expanded.
- The reorganization of OCB will be continued In order to transform it into
a flexible marketing support organization, the OCB agency in Brussels will
be closed, exceptions to the OCB monopoly will be granted to private
Congolese forestry developers.
- The tax incentives policy will be continued.
- A sectoral program will be elaborated encompassing:



- 65 -                         ANNEX III
Page 24 of 31
. actions designed to improve the transport system, which remains one
of the bottlenecks in moving wood out of the northern part of the country.
by June 1988;
. assistance to small Congolese producers (credit, technical support,
etc.);
. actions to promote the exploitation of Congolese forest, especially
in terms of seeking partners and new markets;
. revision of the forestry code in 1987;
. implementation of a rational forestry development policy
(inventories of South Congo, North Congo).
D. Petroleum Sector
77.       The Government's sectoral policy concerning petroleum is designed
to increase State revenues.
78.       Exploration and production.
In order to encourage investment and to maximize petroleum resources, the
Government will implement the following measures:
(1) Review the Mining Code to adapt it to current exploration and
production conditions; modify the tax and economic conditions of future
contracts by March 1988.
(it) Continue the promotion of the exploration of the Basin by having a
promotion/specialist prepare the technical documents and by organizing
presentation sessions by December 1987.
(ILL)     Improve technical and financial follow-up of the projects
undertaken by the companies, by establishing adequate means for data
processing and analysis by December 1988.
Refining. The Government has instituted a program to cut CORAl's
production costs (cf. attached descriptions of PE rehabilitation) in order
to bring them into line with international prices. The results of that
program will be examined with the IBRD In November 1988 in order to take
appropriate measures.
Distribution and marketing. Between now and March 1988, the Government
will review the price structure of petroleum products with a view to
setting the purchase, storage, transport and retail prices and establishing
adequate profit margins for the corporation.
E.   Transport
79.       The Government will prepare by June 1988 a strategy for the
transport sector.



- 66 -                     ANNEX III
Page 25 of 31
ANNEX: Rehabilitation Measures
for Key Public Enterprises
SNE
Ongoing rehabilitation efforts will be continued through a plan of action
providing for:
- A customer inventory in Pointe-Noire in 1988;
- Development of new customer management procedures by December 1987;
- Updating of the staffing plan by December 1987, and implementation in
1988 of new structures and modern personnel management methods;
- A tariff study, to be completed by December 1987;
- Definition and implementation of a system for operating the
interconnected network by March 1988.
The investment program will have to continue to emphasize the physical
rehabilitation of the means of production, namely the power plants of
Moukoukoulou and Djoue, the 20 kV transport and, where justified, the
extension of distribution.
The Government will adopt, between now and December 1987, an electricity
code ("cahier des clauses et conditions generales") specifying the
respective roles of the Ministry of Mining and Energy and of SNE with
respect to investment, planning and implementation.



- 67 -
ANNEX III
Page 26 of 31
SNDE
The rehabilitation of SNDE will be initiated by applying the following
measures:
- Giving priority, with respect to investments, to the rehabilitation of
the Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire networks;
- Carrying out, by December 1988, an inventory of customers in Brazzaville
and Pointe-Noire and improving billing and collection with a computerized
customer management system;
- Conducting a tariff study in 1987;
- Strengthening the internal audit system in 1987;
= Introducing in 1987 a program designed to improve:
e financial and accounting management,
 maintenance of facilities and supplies;
- Ensuring transparency of contractual relations with the projects
corporation in which SNDE is a stockholder (SOCOTHRY).



- 68 -
ANNEX III
Page 27 of 31
HYDRO-CONGO
- Since 1980, the Government has undertaken, on the basis of an assessment
and various studies (organization manual, tariff study, plans of action of
the top managers, audits of accounts), a series of actions designed to
rehabilitate the corporation in the areas of management, exploration and
production.
- As part of this rehabilitation plan, which has been pursued with
increased vigor since June 1985 and provides for expatriate technical
support, the following measures have been decided and are being, or will
be, implemented:
. phasing out of retail and transport activities;
o staff reduction, by means of a hiring freeze and
non-replacement of retired and deceased employees;
* reduction of leakage from 3% to 1% by December 1988;
e reduction of intermediary consumption by raising charges for
the private use of wagons, contracting out road transport and other
appropriate measures;
e Internal audit of research and production activities by March
1988.



-69 -                        ANNEX III
Page 28 of 31
CORAF
In November 1988, CORAF will take the following steps to cut costs and
improve efficiency:
- Expatriate personnel will be reduced by 152 in December 1987 and again by
20% in July 1988.
- Production will be improved between now and June 1988 by switching to a
light crude better suited to the configuration of the refinery and the
market profile.
- Financial burdens will be reduced and a debt settlement plan with HYDRO-
CONGO will be prepared by June 1988.
- CORAW accounts will continue to be audited each year.



- 70 -
ANNEX III
Page 29-of 31
suco
The Government has adopted a rehabilitation plan for SUCO covering the
1987-1989 period which includes the following measures:
- cutting production down to 30,000 tons in 1987 and 40,000 tons in 1988
and 1989, and limiting investments within this production limit;
- signing a technical and commercial assistance contract with an operator
granted effective management responsibilities;
- deep cuts in operational costs (personnel, operating methods, recentering
of the supply function, means of production, inter alia);
- adjustment of sugar tariffs upon presentation of annual documentation in
December for application from the beginning of the following year;
- implementation of a financial restructuring plan;
- annual audit of the accounts.



- 71 -
ANNEX III
Page 30 of 31
ONPT
Based on a study currently in progress, ONPT will update its rehabilitation
plan by December 1987, with three major objectives:
- improvement of management tools in conjunction with decentralization of
responsibility;
- increase in resources and restraints on spending;
- improvement in quality of services.
The following steps will be taken to achieve those objectives:
- update the agency balance sheet for 1985 and 1986 by March 1988;
- introduce commercial and industrial accounting and decentralized
financial and accounting management in the various sectors of activity;
- increase revenues through improved billing and collection;
- improve the use of assets and services by introducing management systems
that have already been prepared such as the maintenance plan and the plan
for the management of inventories and of work orders for
telecommunications;
- improve personnel management.
Special attention will be directed to the problem posed by the financial
restructuring of ONPT, and appropriate ways must be found to improve the
situation of the financial services (CNE, CCP).
The tariff adjustments that will accompany the implementation of the
financial restructuring plan will be examined by March 1988 in conjunction
with this restructuring.
The institutional problems posed by possible modification for ONPT's legal
structures will be reviewed at a later stage.



- 72 -                        ANNEX III
Page 31 of 31
ATC
ATC today undertakes, in a changed economic context, a rehabilitation plan
based on three objectives:
- optimize the utilization of the substantial investments already made;
- ensure better control over expenditures and seek higher revenues;
- improve the quality of ATC services and management by adopting the
principle of management autonomy and accountability for each of the
sections.
To achieve those objectives, the following priority actions will be taken
immediately:
- implementation of a decentralized accounting and financial management
system;
- implementation of a decentralized personnel management system;
- reinforcement of the ability of the director general's office to
coordinate, direct and ensure the implementation of those specific actions.
The following operations will be conducted concurrently with those actions:
- study of a staff reduction plan between now and December 1987;
- completion by December 1987 of a phased three-year plan to reduce claims
in an amount equivalent to 6 to 3 months of revenues;
- completion of a financial audit of the river transport services by March
1988;
- completion of a study of tariff structures by October 1988 and approval
of new structures in December 1988;
- completion by March 1988 of the reorganization study started In 1986.
Additional work should focus on the following tasks:
. redefinition of ATC missions and cunsideration of possible
divestiture from certain activities;
. preparation of medium-term financial projections taking into account
the effect of cost-cutting measures, retargeting of activities and
marketing policy;
. review, based on these financial projections, of the question of the
financial cross subsidization between the sections most appropriate to
decentralized management of the various sections, and, if warranted,
proposals for additional measures;
. proposals for possible institutional modifications necessitated by
actions carried out under the rehabilitation plan.



- 73 -
TMc                    w                                     ,"- E"     mI
Clalnfilcati   of Pubi IC !!MMim
A. ENTEWIUUM 1UWIN IN                                      S.  WVNWWZ     To5 u.WDIIE
TME PS. SECTO                                             swuim
Enterprie to  be             Policy                      Majority Prit             L idatlon
Relab I  1ttted          Eav ron                                   e
(NfI0Alv eem)            meR (Flour)                          1SOCA1A (*Agwiulter.)                       SNAtVI (Chiokon
SIE (Power)              IPT (Ptublic Work.)              1A1         a         Y    rt.                  CACO  (Ship
SaE (Water)              OCT (Tebece Board) i           S        )                 1i  (e g                          eei
ATC (Transport)          ocv (fod crop.)                Fes Leltl               8IL (T      i)            SOCAW (fooed)
HydroCeno                OCC (Cote  and Cocos) 3        SOCOK  (Furniture)       ObC  etal                     (Re ah
(petroleum              Oho      d) PbeU*t                                            B (ria.)              e Form de ib
products)                SNRWood)                      Oer  tdltl               Atlantic Palm tion)         Nte.x 
CORAW  (Reflnery)        SIDETRA (Wood)                                         6SF (Weed) 3/                (Cansave)
SUCO (Sugar) which         6  (dBJILKA (e. 01  _ * M                                       Be)
Will have prlvate        iOCOHAB (Wood transit)         S5O1CO (TetI.)
*snn _ st                SEP (Agricultural              U7S (TextSI.)
studies)                      SOCAVILW  (C1_ieke)
Oh   t      bt STFRT  (Frult)          C 
rT          bi    b      re        de 0K1m1
four eta"            UAIC (Wood)                     co     (Tr
PLASCO (Flastic)              to   ao)
LDIA COXQO               SOVUCO (GUm)                   Forms de Lolen.
(Arlrine)                LAPCO (PMharasceticels)       Ferm  d Obad.
CIDOLAU (eoast) 3        SOCOPSAR (Pham"a)             tCo1 (Woo9d)
SFAC (Wood)              LIMP (Laboratory)
OIACI (Filmt)
mVm  (Hel retll))
VIC (PrintIng)
ONLP (ooktores)                          Ie)
UBC  Chak)                      
S    Itnsuran_e)            5SAIIUIPAlM-AIWC
ANAC (Aeronautic Bord)        (Pol-)
CSPPAF (Stsbiliactoe*)
Soo  (Cconstruction)
SiS(Trenaor)
Farm de bIsous
SAPUArc UAtureIX)
SOU (i lagn)
OCX (Computer)
(CFAF milli on)
'98.00                ue8,4Y0                    u.s.                       a,im                       2,00
Total STuaffe
14,80                 7,40                       7,Oa                                                    8 ae6
l Minority privets capital
Thes onOterprles wII be: (a) operated In a compebititv  onviremment Including the *olItlon of monopolles  nd
nd specil prIvlege, and the wIt*moldlg of all ubsidles and (b) rtructuWred with *taff redutln  and
spian in Off of acti Itle.
S So  or all aotivities wlI be Integrated it the  adlinistration.
i/19   figures.
Does not Include, suo fIgures which are Included In the privatoatlon of msnamt category.
Soure:  roup de Pi leotag, March SW
cowS



- 74 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the program:       One year
(b) Appraisal mission:                        MarchlMay 1987
(c)  Completion of negotiations:             May 1987
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness:           September 1987
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Prior to March 31, 1988, or other agreed date, the Bank will review
the Government's progress in implementing the structural adjustment
program.
Section III - Special Conditions
Effectiveness of the loan, which will permit use of the first tranche
of US$35 million equivalent, is subject to:
(a) satisfactory progress in the preparation of the macro-economic
framework for 1988-92.
Release of the second tranche of US$35 million equivalent of the
credit will be contingent upon satisfactory progress made by the Government
in carrying out the adjustment program; in particular the following actions
will have been takent
(a) preparation of the 'esquisses financieres" (1988-90) and adoption
of the 1988 "Loi de Finances" including programmed authorizations
for public investments;
(b) preparation of oil palm sector strategy;
(c) progress in maintaining net recruitment of the civil service at
zero and adhering to rule of CFAF 1 saving for CPAF 1
expenditure;
td) progress in revising the mining code;
(e) implementation of new price structure for refined petroleum
products;
(f) implementation of PE divestiture program as agreed;
(g) progress in implementation of a plan to settle debts as of 1985
for selected PEs;



- 75 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
(h) agreement on a banking sector restructuring plan;
(i) progress in reducing staff in non-key PEs and agreement on staff
reduction plans for the seven key PEs;
(j) progress in implementing action programs for these key PEs;
(k) liberalization of price and trade control through reduction of
products subject to fixed prices; abolition of system of control
of ex-factory prices and price margins for luxury goods;
replacement of quantitative restrictions with tariffs; and
elimination of the requirement for import licenses and export
authorizations;
(1) abolition of OCI's monopoly and preparation of plan to reduce the
number of remaining monopolies; and
(m) preparation of a plan to restructure ONEKO.



Structral Adjustent program
Objective                     Pollcy Ars                   Actles Aitedy Taken                Nature of Actlsas t. be Tk               Celditimlity
1. Public Sector
1ipre S tieme  of           - Plic                       -  1o n  i        vetmt            - Pre"r medium-4orm ecesmic              -  effetives
public  reorce                eesd r                       Plas seducedand reised              raeo  by September 1W1.
ofl*..ti.. sod                    ro- rcod     to gas priorities.                           - PIm * I     flm eiee                   - Seco   tc
tliatio.                      it           eer                                                  cro-letc gp") for
Ipdto    roves.)   - Areeme   o EP__-   ond1                            by s =  _    117.
reed *wsnavliio beeptol,         -   brede three-p-o  reflit
NWd &IZZ4. eds oil                 ietm     pr_-        (66-U  Iy
pole poa toties.                   October 1 .
- Adapt 1866 'Lo  d. fimsc               - Secu  tr eac_
- srres ezpenditer                     cledthorizatlo
FReduce  by 11 peet .              for pi   Iby
.cebe  lip.
- Variety of mm team               - Proer. oil-pee strategy by             - Seco  trenche
imp_  166/67. - Pbysic.l           Deember 1ip.
work om Etou _i/Kund             - LUalt cvrrt expediture
tP-d.                               s ohm  of non-oI I
, reest tn 1P    .      9;
- Ipove to. aSd duty co lcieon-
gttineg J_       .       -
- Isitu  fiscl reform  In
Jasury 1SM.
-tprove maro-ecomiac ceordination
- Civi I Servico   orn      - mmw reruitment reduced           - Prpro  plan to reiew civil srvice
by 46 percet In 1980;              by October 1167 and begin Impl_ementeton
nt ocrultmnt limited               In Jan_ ry 16M.
to lo  than 40W  person.         - Mainta  limlt oexpditure  for    - Second trnebe
na  recrultmnt (CFAF 1 for 1) In lip
- Size ot civil service (one         and 18.
departure for one entry) an      - Carry out oudit of peronnel peyroll
preonel epndlitr   fromn          recod  by January 19f.
a of June 1167.                  - Limlt pubilc sector salary expenditure
to 00 percet of non/ol I reve_e
lip an ST  percent Ia 190.
- Reduc scholarship expenditure to 0W
of 1166 levels. 
- Carry out numbr of other etpe
to rationalie asiz of eivil service and
to improv prs     l   nm    (l         ).
o c4



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of7
._ ~~i
I~~~~ .1
.i   12d               t    .
13tt i ;i*4E i1
,s ] t10. }t r1    1ir      3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ , 
!~~ Si
r!    ~~~~~~~~~~~1j1



structral Adjustmet P ro m
Objectiwv                    Poliey Ara                   Actiono Alredy Taken                Nature of Actlons to be Taken            Conditio"nlity
1IT. Public
Enrprise Reform
Reduc  bards. of PE         - Sector                    - Strategic studies of               WIemt divestiture program               - Second trenche
sector on the econmy         Rationllzatloln             6S enterprise.                       accordleg to agreed timetble.
incr_e PE accountability                                - Classification of P               - Decie ft  of remaining
and atonmy.                                               Into 4 categories.                  6 onterprise  by Deember 1987.
- Liquidators appointeod
for at lest 4 of B
antrprim.
- Financial                 - Croce debt study end                Obelp prlority PEs to submit
restructurIng and           settlement plan for 15 PEn          financial account. for audit as of 1967.
discipline,                 for debts acrued by               - Prepre plan to setle priorlty debt. - Second tranch
nd 198.                             and implement In 1968.
- Setlement of SE'. debts.            Transfer of sasets to PE
- Adoption of IWding                  balance shet.a by July 196.
guidelIne  and agreement of       - Progreslvely increase budgtry
offect of rescheduling between      llootions for Governmnt
Governent ekd PC-.                  consptlo  of PE servtces to futl
- Agremt on PE Invest-                )o srtir  n 1668
eats for 196 and low              - S4    IIn     - t ftr  servces in
_ Program of *4dltt  y CMC of         15  Cua
26 PEa.
- Banking sector            - ODl*ictIc study vqjerway.         - Camplet. dlgotitc study by
rostructurng                                                    October 1967.
- Litor'Isl aits of                 - Propere restructuring action plan by   - Second treanche
selectd banks.                     December 1897.
- Payment of intere  of             - Rovils  credit ceilinge for PEn
PE debts to UCD.                    by December 1987.
- Staff reductivi           - Study of compensation             - Rduce staff ia non-key PEs and         - Second trench.
and personnel               cystm undW,v.                       PEa to be liquldoted or privotizd
mnsent                     - 1"Atifcteon ot                      In 1o9w7-8.
redctlon at,f In                 - Proparation nod approval of            - Second trencho
28 non-ky PEa.                     staff reduction plans In key PEs
by  _ecebr  19J.                                      , 
- Suspevso4 of  collective          - Introdueo ne peonnboe                                 o
labor agreemets                    statue  by June 1686.                                  Q af
for 196. 



Structural Adjustment Proram
Objective                     Policy Area                  Actions Already Taken               Nature of Action, to be Taken             Conditionality
- LegaI end                 - Approval of ne                     - Adopt legislation for
institutional               totute, for 13 pilot                ianagement contracts  nd
framesork                   enterprise.                          leas, by December 1997.
- Reviw of procurement              - Adopt no  procuremnt
regulations and                     procedures by December 1997.
Organisation of central           - Redefine PE  tatute,
procurement agency.                 Govern mnt relations, and
- Lgal structure for                  oversight structures by
liquidation and                    DOecembr 1998.
privatizatlon ot up.
- New procurement procodureo
propood.
IV. Public Enterprice
Rehabilitation
Improve perforuonco of      - Staff reductions, tariff   - PE action plea  agreed;          - Satiesfctory progres on                 - Second tranch*
key public enterprises        incroases, institutiona;    In addition, stepo cited b3ol0:    these progress as follos:
financial/t echnical
reorganization an
follows for each key
enterprico
(a) ATC                     - Cost saving measure.              - Prepare action to reduce receivables
in 1I98 end debt-equity            from 6 to a months of revenue by
convorcion.                         December 1997.
- Complote reorganization
study by March 198.
- Roorganization study              - Implemnt decentr lizaed
satrted.                            mnagement proedures and
accounting (1967-48).
- Carry out financial audit of river
- Tariff lncroaso of US.              transport by March 198.
- Prepre study of privatizing
- Reduction of prersonel              activities by June 1988.
expenes  by 61.                   - Prere nm tariff strueture by                           to
Octoe4r 198  and adopt by December 198.                M 
-Prpare Staff reduction plan In 1987                     'v.
and Implemet in 1989.



Structural Adjustment Progrcm
Objective                      Policy Area                   Actlonn Already Taken                Mature of Actions to be Taken              Conditionality
(b) WINT                     - Preparation of                     - Update rehbilitation plan by
rehabilitation plan.                December 18?.
- Corry out a tariff study by March 1988.
- Carry out staffing review by
DOcembr 1967.
- Tariff Increase of 205.            - Update belane sheet for 1985/96
by march 168B.
- Reduction of personnel             - Adopt plan to Improve stock
exponses by 6Z.                      mnsagmnt, work orders and
maintenance procedures by
January 198.
- Introdue d*centra I 7ed
financial anagement and
oemerclal accounting.
- Study financial solution of
ONPT'o servie..
- Stud restructuring of OPT and
=iblilty to spilt Into separate
entitles by December 198.
(c) SWE                      - Reorganization                     - Reorient investment to rehabilitation
study complted.                      of existing urban networks.                             c
- Rewvie  staffing by Dcember 1967. 
- Revise subcontracting
- Taolff increase of                   relatlorwhip with SOCOTHRY
7.61.                                by December 167.
- Establish operations and
- Reduction of                         maintenance  tandards by
personnel Qxpani                     Marheb 1968.
by 6.                              - Carry out custoer inventory
and lepr-or customr management
by Oeceber 198.
- Corry out tariff study by Deceber
196?.
- Strengthen Internal audit
functions by December 1987.
OQI
Ix 
X4



Structural Adjutment Program
Objective                     Policy Area                  Actions Alroedy Teln                Nature of Actions t  be Token             Conditionality
(d) SKE                      - Cuter inventory                   - Prepe manpower plan by
In Drazza I te.                    DOcembr 1987.
- Adopt ne  custoer management
procedure by Decembor 1987.
- Carry out tariff stdy by
D_eebr 1987.
- Tariff Incre  of                  - Review insitutional contex*
7.63.                               and ceeponeibilitles of
MME/S7E by D_ember 1987.
- Reduction of peraonnel            - Carry out customr inventory
oxpons  by 5S.                     in Point Noire by Deember 1988.
- Devlop strategy for exploitation
of the interconnected network
by March 1988.
(e) l4ydro-Conso             - Lowing of retil and               - Comple  divestiture of retilI
tranaport activities.               and tranport activity by December 1987.
- Adopt stff reduction plon by
- Computerizd g_eral                  December 1987.
nd cost accounting.               - Adopt m"eures to redce product
loses to 1 by  ecember 1?88.
- Cut traort cost  in 1988.
(9) coRAw                                                        - implent production efficlency
mesures by June 1988.
- Reduce expatriate stff by 153 by
Deceer 1987 and another 21X
by July 1998.
- Prepre financial restructuring
plan by June 1989.
- Revi  operting co   by November 1981.
(g) SUCO                     - Increre  In price of              - Sign manement ed  technical
sugar by 20e in 198M and            assistance contract by September
1lM  in eary 1987.                  1987.
- Prepar cost-cutting plan by Deemr 1987.
- Prare financial resructuring plan
by  Deceber 1O87.                                      n 
- Llt production to 8.,m  tons                          o X
In 1987 and 4,0  tono threrefter.
o CI



Structural Adjustment Program
Objective                     Policy AreD                  Actiona Alrecdy Takon                atuarO of Action. to be Taken            Conditionality
V. lncontive Policies
and Prasotion of the
Private Sctor.
Increas  incentivs          - Price controls             - List of products with             - Reduce liat of products                 - Second tranche
to productive                                              flid priew  reduced fres            subject to fixed prices to 9 by
activities;                                                88 to 20 (11 excluding              marcI 19i8.
increase                                                   public serviece).                 - Abolish current cysts of                - Second tranche
cllocational                                             - Liboralitztion of profit            mrgin control and
officiency and                                             cergins.                            ox-factory control for
cocpetition and                                                                                 luxury goods by March 1988.
onhance role of privato
ctor.                       - Tredo liboralizetion                                           - Replace isport quolte  by               - Second trarelch
tariffs by March 1988.
- Replae systm of export                 - Secod  tranche
authorization and Import
liccws by doclaration
system by January 1988.
- monopoly poucro            - Monopoli eof OCC and
WCV abolihed.                     - Abolish monopoly of OC2 by             - Second trenche,
- Monopolles of Oc and                December 1987.                                           co
CACC  reduced.                    - Reviwe status of rmaining              - Second trench. 
mopolies and prepare
- Exaeptiono to OC's                  pIan to reduce thm by
monopoly granted by                 March 1988.
Ministry of Forestry
- Labor Mobility                                                 - Study Impact of rmoval of
mnopoly on liberal
profeions by Docembr 1987.
- Preparo plan to restructure            - Second trancho
WED by January 1988.
- Privato invetment          - Adoption of                       - Ease requremnta for obtaining
Promotion                    nm Investment codo.                 bouiness lienmce  and reduce profit
tax by   embe_r 1987.
- Adopt plan of action to develop SUE by         
Occer 197. 
- Hmonize end update lega
text as regultions
by August 1987.                                         F 



17-4oI%-87
Table 1-   a. C   Selected Economic Indicatotr: 1984-"1W
(Ln b. I I ion of Conetant 1084 CAF)
Ent; nto                            Proj octed                    Orcmt  Rates           Averago Annuai Cioatb Rates
_____________________________---__  ----------_                                     ------ __ _ -_ -  ------  ---- _--__ _ _  -__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1984     1985       198        IC0 a      1994       1998       198        16         1986    1986-90    1909        1994-98
MP (t Phrlrot Prices)       958.5    930.6       863.1      819.2      916.2     1537.8      10.858     -2.91*     -7.281      -I.SOI     2.619       a.11
termsm of Tr*" Ad;uatment b  -00    -27.5       -278.8    -l193 7     -171.8     .47.3
Cram Dotic Incom            958.5    903.2       so.3   6 23.5         746.4      940.5      10.473     -5.767    -S.Sn        1.54       4.6801     5.6
A4rcultur.                   66.3     67.7        e9.0       77.7       94.0      114.2      10.4S8      2.001      2.001      3.0t       4.867       S.0
Induatry                    542.4    509.6       493.8      444.2      483.5      622.8      11.49      -6.044     -4.098     -2.618      2.201      1.87m
oil                      413.7    401.3       409.2      383.8      3S6.O      414.6      15.18       -3i.00      1.976     -2.78       2.01#      1.15i
Raf./CCna,ruetion         t128.7    103.3      84.6       78.4       89.4      108.2      -0.ISII   -15.S2    -21.87        -1.901      5.341      4.689
Sornlo.                     312.7    316.8       271.2      269.6      307.7      865.7      -2.705      1.2911   -14.39"     -0.141      S.SS1      4.413
0.01      -0.09       0.05       0.20       0.t1
Prieate Cw' 91tton          372.2    377.8       434.8      380.1      432.0      o68.8       1.769      1.801     -8.99W      1.1711      4.71 ?.s7SA
Public CerAn0t. an           141.7    148.9      169.9       87.6      7S.2        e4.6      11.11    3.6ess    -12.2et        -9.201    4.745       -3.741
Toal Cee.tion               513.9    S24.7       472.7      447.7      808.1      63A 4       4.IS       2 108     -e9.90      -1.3S8     3.211      .SAW
Total Invveoaent            291.3    2s8.5       177.8      127.5      140.7      1S3.8    -19 a3n      -7.881   -43.80       -7.97e      3.962       6.441
Mi ll ion Usa Curret
Eaporta oa boe & Sara.      1345.1   1219.6      802.8     1038.0     1644.2     2mm.6       11.9629    -9.33S    -8.la8       7.7S1      9.30n      10.808
gportm ,f bad.t A Sor".     1110.4   115.1       90. 4      94.7      196.4  te3as   -20.831             4.201    -1u.2n1     -0.9o       7.398      9. WA
Goods ond Services Slane    234.7      62.5    -177.8       187.3      297.8      431.7
Current Accmnt ftlance       31.8   -161.1    -a31.3        -22.2       61.7      25.81
restiam
Znvae.tat/GP                 30.41    28.91       20.61      18.6S      16.26      17.7t
Invewtownt/MY                M0. 4    29.7e      s0.31       20.4S      1.98       19.58
PublIic I /Total I IEA                37.71       32.6S      20 SS      23.05 29.01
Co n8  tiomnI                53.61    b6.411      54.5       64.76      5S.3       60.92
Cotmumpt;ion/Y               83.61    5e8.1       80.63      71.8       68.1u      67.11
Eo8rta of C * SIP            61,31    66.31       40.S       SS.71     83.73       85.1t
1O'te 0of  A SI              60.68    53.41      40.88       82.11      29.1u      28.2a
Curent etwkc/m                IANS   -7.4S       -16.et      -0.t        1.42       4.09
Debt Serv;co Ratio           19.7111   2S.        33.e5      21.-8      83.1       18.1aB
Debt Smrviceawt Raw           11.08    1.0S       48.63      33.18      49.53      25.13
MT D0bt/MP                   12.6S    83.11       94.11      91.91      53.81      24.73
Car SuDe of of bat./P         18.91    10.31       4.38       2.58       6.41      13.98
0 e. Suaref of 0ovt/W        -8.63    -6.83      -5.01       -0.76       4.51      11.3iI
Oil EIwpjlrcadndoe ESP       9D.1I    86.98       72.11      87.86      66.2e      WO.N8
O;l Raw/Owernment Raw        6S.91    67.03       60.4S      27.91      s2.61      39.41
O i



17-j"s
Table 2: Boom Coca Medium and Long T.,. Etenm.  Debt,  9841998
Pubiic A Publicly ieranted
(In a; I iir of us dol lare)
Eatimtad                                                            Projected
_______________________~~                    ~~~ __ _ __ _ __ - __ _ -_ _ _   -------___-  ____  ---__ _- -- ___  -_ _ _ __ _ _ _  __ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ _
104      1985        1968        197?       1988        19S9        1990       191         12          1i9        1994        1998        1998       1997        1I9I
Diaburee  uCtaft.nding      193.78  1?7.39        1871.82    2115.6S    23S9.42    23M.85    27D3.59    2700.67    2047.48         246L.84    2S11.96    218t.89      177.97     18t7.14    1804.95
Priftciple PIw to            179.93   216.47       137.81      5d.92        8.5e      88.59       91.44      242.54     29U.74      32?.06      87.45      842.32      848.25      855.20     805.36
intereet Payante              84.73   10E.13        w.28       69.73      118.97     130.69      188.69      194.80     197.61      165.86      174.35     182.40      149.80    1.70         12.5s
Debt Service                 24.6d    324.80       287.06     148.88      124.55      187.28     200.18      437.04      48.85     818.81      512.80      804.72     498.05      492.24      429.90
Croa D,0abunreente           282.08   238.15       2045.5     175.04      186 n 1     192.88     25.74    1in.19         192.07     18.75       185.10   U 85.?7       198.B5      201.05      205.18
Sh aS of  T D bt in eD        72.842   86.1        94.061      89.105      90.77W     92.81       91 7?5      84.890     74.32i      82.50       88.491     45.S8       S3.72?      20.442      24.672
Debt Service  atio            19.302   2S.201       s5.sm      17.096      U2.7?3      18.011     21.2.72     3.942      8?.?70       8.0WS      88.1SS     80.10M      28.7"9      20.808      18.815
mmR Dubt outatand./
Total Debt OutoUnd.           1.98g     2.31U      3.2W        3.611       4.84W       8.996      8.8l0      10.142      1.48I8     12.811      1.990       15.123     17.8II      19U.82      20.6e
_______________________-----     ____-- ___- __---_________--     ------- -__-    ---_____-------------- --  ---   --_____-       __ __                        ---------- -__ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __
90
0?



17-Jwn-87
Table S3 Ile C... Cram Viabsuneet by Tje of Le,tder: 1984-1998
(Ih a; I iirs of US dot tI r)
Estirmtd                                                                   Projected
1984     1983       1986       1987       1968       1989       1          1991       192        199        1994       1995        9 lo6     197         1996
2RD                          5.90    M1.78       5.89       17.46      41.22      6.69       68.85      48.55      39.78      32.S31      1.2S      34.05      40.50      43.38      44.25
ote.e Co". #t*tilaur,el       .62    18.82        7.17      12.94      10.78       9.95       9.12       8.80       9.10       9.60       9.90      10.00      10.80      10.00       10.00
CCon..on>I SI tlrrl        37.16    25.38       26.26      62.68      37.20      S3.04      86.32      37.76      39.14      385.2      29.18      26.35      21.20      20.60      20.8)
sepI Irs/slon  an.          72.81    78.88       60.Si      99.38     10.22       7M24       6s.65      S8.38      64.07      69.56      74.90      78.85      81.75      87.10       90.60
PrviKt Guaranteed           160.90   1OS.61     201.49     118.26     201.78     1350.02    112.112     40.00      40.00      40.00      40.00      40.00      40,00      40.00      40.00
Pr;  lrt m-Gasrateed        21.00    81.00    1tS.00        90.00      90.00     0S.S7       64.62      66.97      76.85      86.81      89.48     100.48      104.05     116.17     120.89
oS; I                        o0.00    0.00        S.1S      46.90       0.00       0.00       0.00      66.12       O.S1       D 00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
TotIl                      808 00   819.13      443.96     414.58     462.20     4100.31    352.58     521.20     266.98     273.06     274.S6     266.1B     297.68     S17.21     S28.84
Of which World Bob         2.09S    S.695       1.211      4.211      S.552     17.165     18.lsO     15.11     14.751     11.11      11.37t     11.90111    18.64      1.f.75     18.59
6A
W Hv



Tabll 4:    8. C. Ban.- of Pan: 1984-19
(In *;Ilione of US dotterp)
lo"4     1965       19e0       1987       I9W        1ng    a 1990         1925       i2         1,93       19<4       1995  19W             197        1998
Espot of goo" A WNS         184s.1   2M9.6      am2.6      o9.9         .e      1040.0     106.0       11.1       125.5      142D.6     184.2    1677.0       LI5. 0     2081.1    225.8
marchmad,ee             1264.8   1144.6      700.8      75.8       0SD.4       98.0       934.0     1021.2      118.15    12. 9      183'.    1445.4       160.5 .     TS1.6     1981.7
monfactor sar;ie          o0.8     74.7      101.8      131.1      129.a       141.9      148.0      01.9       177.0      195.4      211.S      216        25.6       277.6      80.9
Iuporla of godo  A Ws       1110.4   1137.1      96. 4      873.5      696.2      958.5      944.7      990.1     2066.3     1S1.8,    16.4         1887.7     1819.8     16.7       153.C
No?drcfldi.              7S9.4    774.5      612.0      586.1      l85.0      618.5      02.6        6.5        718 .7     771.8      842.6    o93.2       10S.5      1I182.2    1261.9
ten-fctor Srice.         551.0     Ws2.5     518.4      59.4       306.4      020.0       51.l       sel.8      8s2.8      Sa.0       418.9      448.4      486.8      527.4      67SM0
Romauce balance             284.7      62.8     -177.6       -5.6       86.4      106.4       187.8     148.O       229.2     266.7      267.s       289.a     889.2       Sse.s      481.7
Nt factor meows             -200.8   -226.5     -184.9    -129.9      -152.2    -.12.4       -161.1     -222.1     -227.4    -222.7      -227.7    -219.3    -211.0       -2M.4      -196.8
o/* Zlorn. P445.06           -160     -171     -14.9      -129.9    -1S2.2    -162.4    -161. 1       -222.      -227.4      -222.7     -212.7    -208.2    -195.4       -183.0    -174.0
Not Current Tranfer.         -2.7       2.9        1.4        I.'        1.6        1.6        1.         1.s 16     1.6         .6        1.         16          1.6       1.6         1.6L
Currw.t Accont Beanco        S.8   -161.1       -1.,       -18s.9      -64.1      -84.3      -22.2      -27.6        8.4       48.6       61.7       71.7       12.8      w1.7       258.1
Looo-tore cpapita  inflow   -98.5    -29.6       -20.1      121.6      106.4       67.6       67.4        5.8      -02.6      -78.5      -91.3      -80.2      -88.s      -86.0       -9.4
tZ mlt                     0.0      0.0        0.0       48.9       S0.2        1. 9      57.9       So.7       8e9.8      40.5        41.4       48.0       48.9       61.7       62.4
Not LT towe (Ms)         102.2     21.7       16.7      116.1      150.1      13a.0       109.3     -64.4      -96.7    -140.3    -152.8    -15R.          -t18.7    -184.1    -100.2
d)sbureunnts             .1    238.2      204.5      178.0      1e8.7      192.6      200. 7      18.2       192.1      1e9.7      115.2      185.8      195.6      001.1 2I0s.2
"m yats ,-ne.9   -216.6   ?187.8                      -56.9       .4.6      -56.6       -1.4    -242.6    -290.7    -837.1         -W83.      -82.8    -848.2       -865.2     -059.4 C
Other LT inflows(n")    -200.6    -S.s       -40.0      -90.4      -es.9      -u2.8       -79.8      -"449      26.0       26,4        19.6       20.6       24.8      s88s e6.0o  O
C0Ofil                    0.0       0.0        8.2       48.9        0.0        0.0        0.0       66.1        o.s        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
Other cap A E9rore/Owm,      -26.6     94.6      164.7        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0O.        0.0        0.0
overall 8la1nce             -92.2   -95.2       -186.7      -12.4       42.8       18.2       45.2      -21.9      -29.2      -27.6      -29.8      -18.4       46.8       114,7     248.7
FinacI no                    92.2      95.2      18.7        12.4      -42.8      -18.2      -5.2        21.9       29.2       27.8       29.8       18.4      -48.s      -114.7    -24s.7
Owang  in not rcm.       56.2    -14.8        72.1       14.2        2.0       -1.6       -9.8      -21.2       -18.8      -16.9     -29.7      -2s.8       -2a.7     -26.2      -2.4
/w not D*F               0.0      o.0       11.2       t4.2        2.8       -1.6       -9.6      -12.8       -5.0        o.o        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
Other               56.2    -14.8       60.9        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       -8.4       -15.9      -18.9      -2D.7      -28.8      -25.7      -28.2      -27.4
Actw. Arrwro (e)          S6.0    lO9.s      169.5        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        o.0         0.0
Firewing Xp               -0.0     -0.0      -54.9       -1.8      -46.1      -11.7      -84.4       48.1       48.0       48.7       So. a      42.0      -22.0      -86.5    -221.8
Debt wr ic. ratie
Weore iWtel' (C)         19.655   2S.65      62.52i     6.893      8.573S     81.446     25.075      lo.0M     36.95       14.95e    15.063      12.705     12.2i5    12.0ss      11.69
Debt asrilo ratio
after Remi. (1)          19,E   23.6.05      85.773     17.096     12.731     1S.OI      21.275     S6.941     s7.705     56.80      88. Ms     80.105     26.7r      2S.80       18.611
(1) Pablic & Publicly Guaranteed debt.
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -----                                                                      - ----- 
Qt'
o 0-4



|           t~~~~7-Jun-67
T,ble 5;   go" CaD. National Accoub Summary at Crtnt 1984 Prices   1984-199S
(In bill;ons of PCFA)
1Q64     1968       1"        1967      t19o        1969       1990       1991       1992       1998       1994       1995      1996       I"9?       1996
rigin and tlb af RW. rcsa
(DP at mwaet Pr;cms         956.8    930.6      6s3,1      608.4      603 9      0S8.1     619.2    8e0.9        M66.7      694.8      918.2      044.7      974.2    1006.1    1087.S
Net ie iroct tmias           87.1     36.6       29.0       27.2       27.2      27.2       27.7       29.4       29.3       30.3      8l. 1       81.        82.0       84.0      35.1
MP at factor coat           921.4    894.0      S4.0      778.2       77. 7      776.0     701.8      812.6      686.s      864.5      887.2      912.S      041.2      972.1     1002.7
Agriculture                  68.3    67.7        89.0       70.3      72.2       74.7       77.7       61.2       68.2       69.8       04.0       9o.?7     108.8      18.$       114.2
Industry                  542.4    S09.6      493.8      452.7      445.8      437.8     444.2      484.4      485.8      478.6      486.8      493.4      502.6      818.0      622.6
oil                     413.7    401.3      409.2      878.0      370.7      880.9      388.8      373.8     862.4      892.1      898.0      699.9      404.6      409.7      414.5
tanufac./cnratrst.on    1n2.7   I18.8        64.6       74.6       78.1       76.6       78.4       80.7       88.4      W8.5       89.4       93.4      9e.0       108.3      10.2
Servicos *tc.             312.7    318.8      271.2      258.5      258.7      263.7      269.6     277.0      268.4      296.4      807.7      820.7      624.8      380.8      868.7
Rsource 8si c               102.8     57.5      212.S      230.7      244.2     238.4      244.0      256.8      261.6      268.1      281.4      249.9      242.5      280.1      222.7
Esporte  C095           867.8   6E4.s       682.1      S8.1       5i2.S    5849.7       564.9     864.6      606.6      88D.6      648.8      867.8      68B.4      710 6      784.1
luorts  0*95           468.1    807.t1    889.8       8234       308.4      811.3      320.9     S26.8    85.s        884.8      367.4      417.8      448.0      480.8      811.8
On_set.c Aborption          805.2    793 2      850.8      574.7      889.8    584.7       575.2      884.8      604.2      86".7      686.80     604.       731.7      778.0      618.1
Consution                   513.9    624.7      472.7      489.8      440.3     444.0      447.7      458.1      415.9      488.2      88.1l      88.6      868.9       599.8      631.4
P.vat*                    372.2    877.6      343.6      344.3      345.6     8s8.0      380.1      358.7      384.7      406.0      432.9      484.0      498.2      682.7      586.6
Public                    141.7    146.9      126.9       95.8       04.8       91.o      67.6       84.3       61.2       78.2       75.2       72.4       69.7       87. 1      64.8
Crain Fisd Invt_nt          .. 291.3    268.5   177.6      134.9      119 3      120.7     127.8      131.4        138.8    142.5      148.7      158.4      168.8      178.2      183.8
Fi tod                    277.3    287.5      168S.2     t84.9      119.3      120.7      125.9     12.2       138.8      139.6      148.3      188.6      162.6      173.0      160.8
Chnsiig in Stoca           140      11.0       12.6        0.0        0.0        0.0        1.6       2.2        2.5        2.9        2.3        2.7        2.9        8.2        8.2
00
-J
_ IrtduO It...
Not Factor Income           -87.5   -95.4       -79.8      -70.8      -54 0      -43.1     -35.7      -36.5      -38.0      -a9,8      -47.0      -49.1      -51.1     -52.4      -88.0
tat Currnt Transfers         -1.2      1.2        0.7        0.6        0.7 0.7              0 a        0.7        0.7 0.7               0.7        0.7        0.7       0.         0.6
Cr mationat Product         871.0    638.3      763.2      734.6      749 6      760.0     768.S      804.5      827.T7      S8.2      871.2      898.6      928.1     988.7      988.9
Cra. Vae;tic Savtngs        393.8    298 5      113.8      134,9     151.9      186 6      175.8      198.6      213.7      22378      256.2      248.0      268.8      28S.1     S09.1
Cra National Savings        808.2    204.4       34.6       64.8      98 6       118.2     140.6      161.1      178 5      188.9      191.9      197.6      218.1     25S.4      255.9
Capacity to leport         -887.6  -537.1    -808.5    -322.8    -841 0         -849.2    -889.2    -39.8    -420.8    -449.8    -477.0    -808.2    -548.7    -5W9.85    45.6
Tso_ of trade Adj.           -0.0   -27.5    -278.6    -20.6    -211.7    -200.6    -198.7    -191.0    -166.1    -180.6              -I71.8     -12.8    -142.7       -121.1     -97.8
C,oa. domatic ncome         986.s   900.2       56s.8      874.6      892.2     602.6      628.5      649.9       70.e6     714.0      748.4      782.6      831.8     8S6.0      940.5
Crome national income       871 0    807 8      806.8    S0.8        S83.2      S9.5      587.8      613.5      641.8      674.4      699.4      738.8      780.4     882.6 86M.
Oil Price                    27.0    28.6        18.0      15.0        17.0      16.0       18.0       16.2       20.5       21.9       28.4       25.0      27.8       80.2       68.1
Oil Production (00 Stbl)    42348.0  41138.0    41980.0    867880    30.0    8700.       30.0    3600.0    89200.0    40200.0   40800.0    41000.0   41800.0   42000.0   420.O0
frowth                              -0.0        0.0       -0.1       -0.0      .0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
In wtstmnt                  277.S    2e8.0      165.2      1.34.9    119.3      120.7      128.9      t29.2      185.8      139.8      148.8      158.8     182.8      178.0      s80.0 
Public Investomt          188.0    185.0        7. 7      s9.0       22.9      22.8       26.1       26.7       80.8       S0.9       34.2      38.0        S8.2      39.2       42.0 9Z
Ppvsts Iei.aata nt         42.8    42 0        44 9       38.0      38.4       37.9       39.7       42.8       48.5       48.7       52.1       SS.7      89.7       Bs.6       66.3
Oil Investaant             70.0    e5.0        82.8       60.0      80 0       60.0       60.0       60.0       60.0       60.0       50.0      6S.0       88.0       70.0       70. t-n
--_ -  - -- - -- - --_- -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - --- -  - - -- --__-- - - -- - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- --_- - -- - -- -  - - - -- - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - -
ON% -



1T-J.un-67
Table St Control Governmnt Oud.etC 1904-198
(In billion. of curront CFAP)
1984     1983       1986        1987       1988       1989       1o0w        1991       1992       1993       1994        1995       1996       1907       199
Oil Raevnue              212.1    224.4       114.6       33.2       48.7       6S.3        56.6       84.4       .d.7        90.4      104.8      120.4       148.9      175.4      209.2
Ron el u Rewrnue         111.1    107.6       112.7      t15.9      123.7       183.5      144.0      157.7      174.3       192.0      212.8      235.4      259.9       288.6      318.7
custom                S4.4       43.6       40.6       88.1       38.5        40.3       41.2       48.3       48.9        50.7       5.4        61.7        67.9       i5,7       82.9
other t'o Rovanuo      53.8     49.8        56.5       65.2       70.7       77.2        84.7       93.5       108.4      115.1      127.9      142.8       1S9.7      17;.0      200.1
0th.. Non Tax           6.2      9.5        10.4        6.8        7.5        8.2         9.1       10.0        11.0       12.0       13.3       14.6        16.0       17.6       19.4
Aqt9aouo Units         6.3       4.7        5.0        6.7        7 0         7.7        9.0       11.0        13.0       14.1       16.3       16.3        165.       16.3       16.3
trnIa                      8.6      3.1        0.3         2.2        2.1        2.3         2.5        2.8        3.l        3.1         8.1        3.1        8.1         3.1        3.1
Total Revenu-            3S1.8    335.1       227.6      161.3      172.5      201.1       203.1      224.9      254.1       265.s      220.5      369.9      408.9       457.1      331.0
Current tipnditurea      198.2    231.5       195.2      153.2      164.8       173.2      179.7      201.1      206.3       207.6      207.7      208.2      208.8       209.6      210.6
was" and Selari..      66.8      76.0       79.0       78.3       80.6        83.1       85.6       88.1       90.8        93.5       9t.3       99.2       102.2      106.2      108.4
Oods and Services      36.8      40.4       24.1       10.0       10.a        10.6       10.9       11.8        11.6       11.9       12.3       12.7       13.0   t     3.4       13.8
Subsidie               37.0      39.6       43.4       31.4       32.0        33.0       84.0       35.0       36.0        37.1      3S.2        39.4       40.6        41.8       43.0
AutJnouou Units         7.6      7.2         8.9        6.7        t.9         6.1        6.2        8.4        6.6         6.6        6.$        6.6        6.6         6 8        6.6
tnter.t                37.0     48.e        34.3       27.8       36.0       40.5        43.0       80.3       61.3       88.5        84.2       80.3       48.4        42.5       88.6
OMear                  13.0      t9.7        6.5        3.6        0.0         0.0        0,0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Hot Lending                1.7      3.0        2.8         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Surplus/Deficit          181.9    100.6        29.6       -2.0        7.7       27.9        23.4       23.8       47.9       77.9       112.9     I10 7       200.1       257.6      820.6
Capitol Lteditur..       164.8    162.2        63.8       38.6       23.0       27.5        30.3       34.8       40.0       4E.0        52.9       60.8       70.0        80.5       92.6
Balance (coult. basic    -4. 4    -61.6       -34.2      -35.S      -17.3        0.4        -6.8      -11.0        7.0       81.8        60.0        9.8 96   10.1        17 1       228.0
Arrears (Nt)              11.6    33.9      -37.S       -S3.2      -20.0      -20.0       -15.7        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0-0        0.0         0.0
Balance (c*A basio)      -22.8    -27.7       -71.7      -70.7      -87.8      -19.6       -22.5      -12.0        7.8       31.8        60.0       89.8      130. 1      17. I       2.0
Fin ncino                 22.8     27.7        71.7       70.7       37.a       19.6        22.8       11.0       -7.8       -31.8      -60.0     ..9.8      -130.1      -177.1     -22.0
Foreip (not)              44.6      9.7       -5S.6       38.0       48.6       42.2        33.9      -16.9      -30.6      -4.5        -47.2      -43.6      -4.0       -47.8       -31.1
earew;no              128.2    107.0        70.8       84.8       49.2       S9.7        62.2       86.3       69.6       67.e9        7.4       67.e6        0.0       62.8       68.6   I
Airtot;ioen            78.6      97.2      129.2       18 a        2.7        17.5       28.3       76.2       90.1       101 4      104.6      16.1I       108.0      110.1       94.7
Erc.pt. Financino 0.0               0.0       33.1         0.0        0.0        0 0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0D
DoIbtic tinsac. not       13.8      6.9         9.8        8.0        8.0       10.0        10.0       10.0        5.0        10.0       10.0       10.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Debt Adja./elio          -84.2      12.0       85.6        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0   I
Financing GNp             -1.4      0.0         1.4       26.7      -14.2      -S2. s      -21.4       17.8       17.7        1.6       -22.8      -S1.3      -82.2    -129.3       -197.0
0'



/   t.                      ~~~~~~~~~~~rr mvWo mtr s r erWtrf                          
fC -                                                       -, ',o.x-.- , ~  lCENTRAL  AFR1CAN  REOIiBLIC
I              t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- dnrt Ct &1tC
A  F    R I C  A vvN~$sies\/''''' 
.t fhe        3  g        I          r         o f -f&'                                                                                          
CAMER00i%/
>1e~~~~~~  ~~~~                                                                                               C.g ',, -rr\K^        
s   .-   .  .     ,                                                                                                                4 -      9         D,     2
g t nEs~~~~ -    - -?
(ZAIREY;
7U iE4b                                                                            S     e      n     nSO*1555                                                    Ir rNi'rOND 
POPULATION   DISTRIBUTION
0l TRIBUTlO,N  DE IA  POPWATIOPN                                                                                        4                                 .
LLJ                 5001000'O 
,  2   500                                                h 
3 100- 25C
NUMBER  OF INHABITANTS                                                                                                         ,f)
NOMBPE DLHABITANTS 5
3300,00                                    f
_QUATOR  __                                      i
-0@--_150,~~10,00-'



-o- _150,000                                     --          -                     Fi M  -
_70       70,00                                               IC )                                                               -,     4     ''3 1;<
500, 00                                                                                C,
30000                                                                                ' 
0,000                                                                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NDO
2000-500~~
SO_.RCE  ifJuNE ARiCUt  '?7' 7                                                            -   o                                           )
~~~~~~~~~~ '  3I/IeI<
t    , 8                       >              8~~~~~~~~~~-  C,AMBCOM         s
Nder,d-                             7               K                                                        P~~~~~~~~~~~OP~~~ ~~'-S 3REPUFiL 1C OF THE (C`:O
~~r~-~~                                                      P'OPUL,    TI`   N
Nod -  v  *  LA~                            TgIpf;OP T    DISTRIBUTION
JiAA      )                          IS    . A              )    A   POR            T/OU
-    b~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-IqA
6 4 \ > 7                                                                             V  A '  C'  0 A\: RX
i   <>.  g jiF ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'1                                                                              'M., A
L F~~~~A 
H --4AB,~~I                                                                                                          _____r_______                            2,         250   _
m  _ ;LA5 )     ~        .R elaKaK   es           k                                         0
Z A   IR E                                                                              MA S
co  A6
LT_., 



