                                            Documentof
                                         The World Bank

                                    FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                              ReportNo: 27975-CM




                                PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                ONA

                                        PROPOSED CREDIT

                              INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 13.6MILLION
                                 (US$20 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

                                              FOR A

                   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT

                             INSUPPORT OFTHEFIRSTPHASEOFTHE

                             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM

                                          February20,2004




Environmental, Rural and Social Development Central Africa
Country Department 07
Africa RegionalOffice

This documenthas arestricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipientsonly inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contentsmaynot otherwisebe disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective Estimation for August 2003)

                              Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                                   1CFAF = US$0.00166
                                     US$1 = 600 CFAF


                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1st -- December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD      French Development Agency (Agence Franqaisede Dkveloppement)
APL      Adaptive Program Lending
ASPEN    Africa Safeguards Policy Enhancement
CAA      National Debt Management Agency (Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO      Community-Based Organization
CDC      Communal DecisionCommittee
CDP      Communal Development Plan
CPAR     Country Procurement AssessmentReview
D C A    Development Credit Agreement
EMP      Environmentalmanagement Plan
EO1      Expression o f Interest
ESMF     Environmental and Social Management Framework
FEDEC    Foundation for Development andEnvironment
FEICOM   Special Fundfor Council Management (Fonds Special d'Equipement et d'Intewention
         Intercommunale)
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOC      Government o f Cameroon
GPN      General Procurement Notice
ICB      International Competitve Bidding
IPDP     Indigenous People Development Plan
LDP      LocalDevelopment Plan
MINEPAT  MinistryofEconomicAffairs, ProgrammingandRegionalDevelopment
MINAGRI  Ministry o f Agriculture
MINEPIA  MinistryofLivestock, Fisheries andAnimal Industries
MINEF    MinistryofEnvironment and Forests
MINSANTE MinistryofPublic Health
MINATD   MinistryofTerritorial Administration andDecentralization
MINEDUC  MinistryofNational Education
MIS      MonitoringInformation System
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
N C U    National CoordinationUnit
NGO      NonGovernmental Organization
PIM      Project ImplementationManual
PADC     Community Development Support Project (Projet d'Appuiau Dkveloppement

                                                          FOROFFICIALUSEONLY




              Communautaire)
    PAPNDP    Community Development Program Support Project
    PDC       Provincial Decision Committee
    PDOB      Chest-BCnouC Development Project
    PNDP       Comunity Development Program
    PNVRA     NationalAgricultural Extension andResearchProgram Support Project
    PPU        Provincial Project Unit
    PRDM       Projet de DBveloppement de la Rtgionde Monts Mandara
    PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
    RAP?      'ResettlementActionPlan
    RPF        Resettlement Policy Framework
     RSR       Rural Sector Review
     SA        Special Account
     SBD       Standard BiddingDocument
     sc        Steering Committee
     SOE       Statement of Expenditures
     SPN       Specific Procurement Notice
     SRFP      Standard Request for Proposal



                                  Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
                               Country Director:   Ali JShadr
                                  Sector Manager:  JosephBaah-Dwomoh
                              Task Team Leader:    Ousmane Seck




This document has a restricteddistributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                             CAMEROON
                COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENTPROGRAMSUPPORTPROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                    Page

   1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                 3
   2. Project development objective                                                       3
   3. Key performance indicators                                                          4

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
   4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans

C. Program and Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                  11
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       12
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      12
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       13

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                            17
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies        18
   3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                                  19
   4. Indications o f borrower commitment and ownership                                   20
   5. Value added o f Bank support in this project                                        20

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                            21
   2. Financial                                                                           21
   3. Technical                                                                           22
   4. Institutional                                                                       22
   5. Environmental                                                                       23
   6. Social                                                                              27
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  30

F. Sustainability and Risks

  1. Sustainability                                                                      32
  2. Critical risks                                                                      32
  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      33


G. Main Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             33
  2. Other                                                                               33
    ,
H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                           33

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             33



Annexes

Annex I: Project Design Summary                                                          35
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         49
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           50
Annex 5:  Financial Summaryfor Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    51
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    52
          (B)FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements                            63
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     69
Annex 8:  Documents inthe Project File                                                   71
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                 72
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            74
Annex 11: Rural Development Policy Letter                                                76
Annex 12: Financial andInstitutionalArrangements                                         84

                                                  CAMEROON
                                   Community DevelopmentProgramSupportProject

                                        ProjectAppraisal Document
                                             Africa RegionalOffice
                                                    AFTS3

Date: February 18,2004                                  Team Leader: Ousmane Seck
Sector Managermirector: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh              Sector(s): Sub-nationalgovernment administration(90%),
Country ManagedDirector: Ali Khadr                      Information technology (10%)
Project ID: PO73629                                     Theme(s): Municipalgovemanceandinstitution building
Lending Instrument: Adaptable ProgramLoan (APL)         (P), Municipalfinance (P), Participationandcivic
                                                        engagement(P), Ruralservices andinfrastructure(P),
                                                        Ruralpoliciesandinstitutions (S)
   Program Financing Data
                                                                Estimated
      APL              IndicativeFinancingPlan           ImplementationPeriod                 Borrower
                                                                (Bank FY)
                                  Others      Total     Commitment
                                                             Date         Date
APL 1                               62.82      82.82
       Loan/
      Credit  I
APL2             20.00  I 20.0 I    80.00 I   100.00
       Loan/  II        I      I          I
      Credit1                                                        I            I
APL3          I  20.00  I 20.0 I    80.00 I   100.00     06/30/2010  I 12/31/2014 I
       Loan/            I      I          I
      Credit  II
Total         I  60.00  I          222.82 I   282.82
              I
     rl t n a n    IX1 Credit    I 1Grant     I1Guarantee         I 1Other:

    For LoanslCreditslOthers:
   Amount (US$m):20.0

    ProposedTerms (IDA): StandardCredit
    Grace period (years): 10                            Years to maturity:40
                                                        Service charge: 0.75%
                                                                     -
Financing Plan (US$m):          Source                               Local          Foreign           Total
BORROWER                                                                6.29    I         0.00  I        6.29
IDA                                                                    14.50              5.50          20.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                                       1.oo              0.00           1.oo
FRANCE: GOVT. OF FRANCE           - MOFA andAFD (C2D)                 21.00               4.00          25.00
~~~~~       ~




HIPC-DONORCONTRIB.FOR DEBT RELIEFNOT FLOWING




    Borrower: REPUBLICOF CAMEROON
    Responsibleagency: MINISTRY OF ECONOMICAFFAIRS, PROGRAMMING& REG. DEVELOPMENT
   Address: MINEPAT,Yaounde, Cameroun

Contact Person: Mme. Marie-MadeleineNGA
Tel: (237) 221-3664165168            Fax: (237) 221-3663    Email: pndp-canieroun@yahoo.fr




                                                  - 2 -

A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Programpurposeandprogramphasing:

  The purpose o f the Community Development Program (PNDP) is to reduce poverty and to promote
  sustainable rural development in Cameroon by strengthening local governance and empowering
  communities in rural areas, including marginalized groups. More specifically, it would (i)support
  implementation o f demand-driven subprojects and (ii)    carry out local capacity-building activities. The
  PNDP supports decentralization by strengthening local technical and financial capacity and by
  addressing weaknesses in social capital to improve delivery o f basic services, generate economic
  opportunity, and address poverty andgrowth.

  The program's long-term vision is that communes would collaborate with communities in the planning
  and control of local development in rural communes (as defined by Law 74/23) by (i)       identifying and
  managing infrastructure and service needs, (ii) managing the resources needed to establish and maintain
  community infrastructures, and (iii) promoting good governance. The vision cannot be achieved quickly.
  To maximize success, the program would be implemented using the Adaptable Program Loan (APL)
  instrument in three four-year phases. The first phase (the subject of this Project Appraisal Document)
  initiates the process and refines its mechanisms in five provinces-Province       du Nord, Province de
  1'Ouest, Province de 1Ydamaoua, Province du Centre, and Province du Sud (annex 13).

  The three phaseswould be structured as follows:

      Phase 1: Initiation
      Under this phase, the program would start in 5 of 10 provinces: Province du Nord, Province de
      I'Ouest, Province de lYdumuouu, Province du Centre, and Province du Sud. Over the four-year
      implementation period, the program would progressively refine its approach and mechanisms,
      building on its results and on previous local development experience in Cameroon from such pilot
      initiatives as the National Agricultural Extension and Research Program Support Project
      (PNVRA), Ouest-BtnouC Development Project (PDOB), Mandara Mountains Area Development
      Project (Projet de Dkveloppement de la Rigion de Monts Mundura, PRDM), the Biodiversity
      Conservation and Management Program, and the Community Development Support Program
      (PADC). Rural communities would be empowered, development investments would be cofmanced,
      and rural communes would be strengthenedenough to manage local development.

     Phase 2: Expansion
     Under this phase, program activities would expand to all provinces, with activities initiated in eve9
     rural commune, if not in every community. Commune-level capacity-building would greatly intensify,
     and when communes have shown satisfactory govemance performance, local developmeni
     responsibilities would be progressively more intensively transferred to them.

      Phase3: Consolidation
      Under this phase, the program would achieve national geographic coverage. Appropriate measures
      would be taken to ensure the long-term sustainability o f local development, with local governments
      takingover all local development activities.



2. Projectdevelopmentobjective: (see Annex 1)

   The Community Development Program Support Project (PAPNDP) i s the first phase o f the program.



                                                    - 3 -

   Its objective is to assist the Government o f Cameroon in setting up and implementing a decentralized
   financing   mechanism to ensure participatory community development in rural areas. It would (i)
   establish a system for channeling funds to rural communities to finance prioritized collective
   infrastructures, (ii) strengthen the capacity of communities and local governments to plan and manage
   their own development, and (iii)improve the legal and regulatory framework for decentralized rural
   development. Communities and communes would be engaged in a participatory appraisal o f their
   needs, culminating in the implementation o f subprojects cofinanced by the project. Efforts would be
   made to clarify procedures and build local governance capacity for communes so that resources and
   local development responsibilities could be transferred to them. Special efforts will be undertaken for
   enable marginalized people (indigenous communities, nomads, women, etc.) to participate in the
   project.

3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

   The first phase of the Adaptable Program Loan (APL) would have a large capacity-building
   component. Progress toward project objectives would be measured by qualitative and process-oriented
   performance indicators. Indicators would also measure the implementation of subprojects. Some
   quantitative indicators have been added to reflect improvement in basic services and social
   infrastructure, but because the subprojects are demand-driven, the quantitative indicators are tentative
   and based on current pilot operations, feasibility studies, and studies conducted for the country's
   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).
   These indicators may be revisedduring the midtermreview.

   Performance indicators include:


                                               Performance Indicators
     500 suburoiects have been imdemented        *
     Local Development Plans o f at least 50 % o f targeted CBOs within the 38 targeted communes have been
    approved   *
     Communal Development Plans o f at least 75 % of targeted communes have beenapproved
   I 50 healthcentershave been rehabilitated or built                                                          I
   I 150 classrooms have beenrehabilitated or built                                                            I
   I 30 rural roads improvement subprojects have beencompleted
     150 water supply infrastructures have beenrehabilitatedor built
     70 YOo f subprojects approved for more than six months have beencompleted
     Decentralization legal texts have been prepared
     Staff andor elected authorities o f all 38 targeted communes have benefitedfrom training sessions or
    sensitization campaigns
     at least 50 % o f targeted communes have a rate of implementation o f their budgethigher than 50 YOas
    comuared to the baseline
   I Imdementation ratio o f the training; plans established bv the PPUs to the benefit of CBOs reaches 55 %  I
     at least 70 % o f infrastructures carried out under the subprojects are maintained and operational
     80 % ofthe reports to be prepared by NCUunderthe Project MonitoringandEvaluation Manual have
    been issued on a timelv basis
   I 80 % of contracts simed bv N C Uhave been executed on      time.                                          I
    50 % oftargeted communes have a rate o ftax covering higher than 50 % as comparedto the baseline
     A properly grounded decision hasbeenrendered on at least 95 % of subprojects submitted to Communal and



                                                      - 4 -

   1 Provincial Decision Committees
    * :direct contributionto results-basedCAS indicators



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 26555            Date of latestCAS discussion:September 11,2003

    The recently-approved World Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy has been aligned with the
   PRSP goal o f poverty reduction through improved basic delivery, private sector-led growth, andbetter
    govemance. The proposed project would contribute to the first pillar ("strengthening the institutional
    framework for improved pro-poor economic management and service delivery") and, inparticular, to
    the following outcome: "improved delivery o f basic services, specially sustainable management o f
    service delivery at the community level, farmers reachedby extension services, and urban management
   units" (outcome 1.3.) by empowering local communities, strengthening decentralized authorities'
    capacities, and improving basic services delivery, in the context o f local development plans, as
   measured by the following related indicators: 4,000 rural community-based action plans have been
    designed, 50% of them have implementedone subproject, and women and vulnerable groups are more
    involved in decisionmaking. Finally the project would contribute to strengthening community-driven
    development capacity o f local government, an important element o f the first pillar o f the strategy.

    A Rural Sector Review (RSR) was completed by the Bank on January 9, 2003. It assessed the main
    issues and constraints to rural sector performance in Cameroon and proposed an action plan for the
    Bank, including a national local development program. The RSR also highlighted how sustainable
    community development requires support to communities andprograms for capacity-building.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:

    Main issues

    Despite significant progress between 1996 and 2001, poverty still affects a large share o f Cameroon's
    population, and poverty reduction remains a key concem o f the Cameroonian authorities. According to
    the Household Survey I1(ECAM-11), nearly 4 o f 10 Cameroonians livedinpoverty in2001, and some
    80% of the poor lived in rural areas. So rural areas must be the primary focus of poverty reduction
    interventions. Analyses conducted during preparation o f the PRSP identified the following obstacles to
    the reduction o f ruralpoverty:

    1. Inadequate andinefficient provision ofbasic services to ruralpopulations.
    As ECAM-I1showed, poor educationis closely associatedwith poverty: more than 4 o f 10households
    headed by a person with no education live inpoverty, compared with 1 o f 20 households headed by a
    college-educated person. Educational levels remain very low in Cameroon, particularly in rural areas.
    Although the literacy rate has improved over the last 30 years, it is still below 60% inrural areas, and
    the primary school enrollment rate (79% nationwide) shows strong geographic and gender disparities,
    with rates below 50% in the Provinces de I'Extrhe-Nord et du Nord. The main causes are long
    distances between home and school (more than 10 kilometers for some communities), poor quality o f
    education, and highstudent-teacher ratios.
    Health services fail to address all the population's needs and expectations. Contributing factors
    include (i)the weak financial situation of the population (the poorest 20% lack any financial coverage
    for health care and other social services ), (ii)
                                                   the weak financial situation and poor technical capacities



                                                    - 5 -

o f the public health system, and (iii) excessive centralization and inadequate coordination o f public
                                          the
services. HIV/AIDS is a major rural development issue. National HIV/AIDS prevalence is 11'?4-20%
insome areas-and      i s still rising. Women and young people are affected most.
Limited and dilapidated rural road networks are a key factor inpoverty. According to the Ministry
o f Agriculture, up to 40% o f production is lost due to lack o f available transport. Of the 50,000
kilometer national road.network, 28,000 kilometers are rural roads (transit roads, communal roads,
livestock transhumant paths, and community roads). Funds cover only a third o f rural road
maintenance needs. And because the Government has no policy for ownership o f community roads,
communities lack support for periodic maintenance.
Inrural areas, an estimated 58% of the population lacks access to clean water, and there is 1water
point for every 460 people, nearly twice the accepted standard of 1 water point for every 250-300
people. The main water problems are (i)      inaccessibility due to lack o f roads, (ii) o f a participatory
                                                                                       lack
approach to planning public investments, (iii)use o f poorly adapted technologies, (iv) lack o f
coordination among the ministries in charge o f rural water supplies, and (v) scarcity o f technical
capacities and skills at the local level for establishing and maintaining water supply infrastructure.
Communities have limited access to credit. Financing from the banking sector has been limited, and
microfinance institutions do not cover all rural areas or have the long-term resources needed to meet
demand,so manycustomers are tumed away.

2. Technical andfinancial weaknesses of the communes and communities.
Community involvement in the local development process has increased, and some communities have
drawn up local development plans, although they often lack the financial means to implement their
plans. Communes are still held accountable for local development even though their resources are
inadequate and revenues under direct local government control are usually insufficient to cover
expenditures. There are five main sources o f local funding with the following strengths and
weaknesses:

a. Centimes Additionnels Communazuc (CAC) are collected with state taxes on behalf o f the
     communes (a 10% surcharge on income caxes, a 25% surcharge on land taxes, a 10% surcharge
     earmarked on games taxes, and so on). Of these funds 10% are allocated to the Government; 20%
     are allocated to the Fonds SpCcial d'Equipement et d'htervention Intercommunale (FEICOM), as
     created by Law 74/23 and operational since 1977; and 70% are distributedto communes through
     the FEICOM. If the "fiscal chain" were tightened and resources collected on behalf o f communes
     were actually distributed to them, resources available to communes under the CAC provision
     would double without any other changes in government policy, tax rates, or tax bases. Improving
     the distribution of the CAC shouldbe a highpriority inthe effort to strengthen localgovernment.
b. FEICOM capital loans and grants. One o f the roles o f the FEICOM is to support local
     investment with loans and grants. These funds are an important source o f fmance for local capital
     investment, but the relative weight of technical and financial criteria in allocating funds has yet to
     be determined.
c. Local taxes. Property tax revenues inurban areas could be boosted by basing them on land value
     rather than on plot size. Higherlocal tax yields inurban areas would allow more CAC funds to be
     allocated to rural areas. This, along with better distribution o f CAC funds, could increase the
     resources available to rural communes. There is little potential for raising local taxes at the rural
     commune level. Most public services are delivered in the village, which is far from the commune
     physically and psychologically, and there is little willingness to pay local taxes.
d. Userfees. There appears to be strong willingness to directly pay for services in which quality
     improvement is evident. Differences between sectors must be carefully studied before user fee
     policies are adopted. In all types o f countries and communities, user fees for maintenance of


                                                   - 6 -

     small-scale infrastructure have increasedcommunity involvement and sustainability, but the results
     in social sectors have been mixed. An in-depth study (using a controlled experimental design) in
     Cameroon's Adamaoua Province found that use of rural health centers, particularly by the poor,
     rose significantly when user fees were introduced and then reinvested for quality improvements
     Gitvack and Bodart, Social Science and Medicine, 1993). Anecdotal evidence in education
     indicates the opposite: enrollment increaseswhen formal fees are removed, despite drops in quality.
     But other factors, suchas economic growth, mayhave driven these attendancechanges.
 e. Local elites. Inpractice, local elites (as they are known in Cameroon) appear to be a large source
     o f discretionary finance for villages. Villagers who have prospered and often movedto Yaoundk or
     Douala remit funds directly to their communities and are often able to successfully lobby to have
     their villages included in national programs (rural electrification, school improvements, and the
     like). While elites play a pragmatic and useful role, lobbying is not the best method for allocating
    public expenditures. Further, by placing overall emphasis on those who have already used their
     prior advantages, it further marginalizes those remote andor indigenous communities that have not
     begun to climb the ladder. While this phenomenon would probably persist, the transparency of
     national programs should be improved to ensure that village-level planning is participatory and
     focuses on the most necessary investments.

Service delivery by local governments suffers from a severe lack o f capacity, skilled staff, andtraining.
Equipment and materials needed to carry out work are either scarce or outdated. Coordination and
communication among communes andcommunities are also lacking.

3. Lack o f coordinationbetween donors at the local level.
Several local development projects have been launched in Cameroon, but coordination has been poor.
The multisectoral character o f local development requires better integration.

Government's strategy

 1.Povertv Reduction Strategy.
Poverty reduction has become a priority for the Government o f Cameroon. The Government presented
its PRSP to the Bank inJuly 2003. The PRSP sets the following priorities:

  i.Promotingastablemacroeconomicframework.
ii.Strengtheninggrowththrougheconomicdiversification.
iii.Empoweringthe privatesector asthe mainengine ofgrowth andapartner insocial services
     delivery.
iv. Developingbasic infrastructure andnatural resourcesinan environmentally sustainablemanner.
 v. Acceleratingregional integration inthe framework of the Central African Economic and Monetary
     community.
vi, Strengthening human resources, bolstering the social sector, and promoting integration of
     vulnerable groups inthe economy.
vii. Improvinginstitutional framework, administrative management, andgovernance.

The PNDP is presented inthe PRSP as one of the main instrumentso f the rural development strategy.
It would contribute to priority (ii), rural sector being presented as key for economic growth in
                                        the
Cameroon. The PNDP would also contribute to priorities (iv), (vi), and (vii) by cofinancing collective
social infrastructures, strengthening the capacities o f rural communes and communities, and supporting
decentralization.




                                                   - 7 -

   2.Rural Development Stratem.
   On April 29-30, 2003, the Government o f Cameroon presented its Rural Development Strategy. Its
   overall objective is strong, equitable, and sustainable rural growth. Specific objectives are:

    i.Modemizingagriculturalproductionsystems.
    ii.Restructuringtheinstitutionalframework.
   iii.Promotinganappropriateincentiveframework.
   iv. Managingnatural resourcesina sustainable manner.

   The strategy would be implemented inthe context o f a Rural Development Support Framework (Cadre
   Synoptique de Mise en oeuvre de la Stratkgie de Dkveloppement du Secteur Rural) with five priority
   axes: (i)local development, (ii)   agricultural production development, (iii)institutional support, (iv)
   forestry and environment, and (v) rural finance development. Local development activities are to be
   implementedunder the PNDP framework.

   3. Decentralization.
   The Government o f Cameroon has been strongly engaged indecentralization, starting with Law 74/23
   (December 5, 1974) that createdcommunes. The law distinguishes between urban and rural communes
   (306 rural communes inCameroon). Communal authorities, including a mayor who serves as chair, are
   elected. But progress has been slow. The role o f the communal elected authorities should be
   strengthened so that they can perform assignedfunctions and be heldaccountable for performance. The
   specific texts required to complete the legal framework laid out in the 1996 constitution have been
   underpreparation for five years. The awaited texts are expectedto set out:
   0    General rules applicable to communes (financial resources, status and organizationcharts o f staff);
   0    General rules applicable to regions (attributions, operational aspects) ;
   0    Specific provisions applicable to communal elected authorities (status and organization charts) ;
   0    Specific provisions applicable to regional elected authorities and regional staff (electoral made,
        status and organizationcharts).

   On finance, a 1998 decree relaxed the "single treasury" (unicit6 de caisse) principle previously
   imposed on councils. Reform of the tax system and council resources would come with
   decentralization.

   The PAPNDP would support the Government o f Cameroon's completion o f the decentralization
   regulatory framework and would increase the capacities o f rural communal authorities and commune
   staff.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategie choices:

   The PAPNDP, which is integrated into the Rural Development Support Framework (inconnection with
   its first theme o f local development), is designed to support implementation o f the PRSP and o f the
   Rural Development Strategy. The PAPNDP would directly address the main issues mentioned above
   through the following strategic choices:

   Empowerment and strengthening of communities to increase their involvement in local development.
   This would be achieved through capacity-building for community-based organizations and leaming by
   doing, with communities managing their development. Communities would analyze the existing
   situation; elect decisionmaking bodies; identify, prioritize, and analyze problems; draw up action plans;
   mobilize resources; and take responsibility for implementing actionplans.



                                                    - 8 -

   BeneJiciary coJinancing of development subprojects. Experience has shown that demand is better
   articulated and the sustainability of infrastructure is enhanced when communities contribute to
   investmentcosts, control investment choices, and oversee implementation.

   A demand-driven and multisectoral project. Because the PAPNDP is demand-responsive, it would
   address the perceived priorities o f communities andincrease the efficiency and effectiveness o f poverty
   reduction efforts. A demand-driven approach o f this kind can only be pursued in a multisectoral
   manner. A wide range of subprojects would be cofinanced as long as they are of collective benefit
   (schools, health centers, literacy programs, rural roads, bridges, wells). The program would thus
   increase the availability o f social services inrural areas.

   Consistency between vision and action.           Formal agreements between MINEPAT and each key
   technical ministryinvolved inPAPNDP implementationare beingpreparedby the Government and will
   be finalized prior to effectiveness. They will detail how those ministries would be involvedinPAPNDP
   implementation to ensure consistency between local activities and national policies and standards. The
   project would strengthen national and regional coordination units (such as missions rkgionales
   d'dtudes et dbmdnugement). At the regional level the project would reconcile (i)     short-term technical
   and economic priorities and (ii)long-term social and environmental issues, making sure that local
   stakeholders and decisionmakers have a common understanding o f the constraints and priorities for
   eachregion.

   National coverage and adapting program design to local capacities. It is important to ensure that the
   PAPNDP would scale up from existing local development projects (PNVRA,PRDM, PADC, PDOB,
   GEF-Biodiversity), progressively covering the whole country. Given the country's size and the huge
   capacity-building effort required for a community-based approach, a long-term program is necessary.

   Coordination of initiatives of local development donors. As declared in the Rural Development
   Policy Letter o f Cameroon, the PNDP would be the framework for local development projects in the
   country. It is a multidonor program that aims to consolidate and coordinate donor initiatives to avoid
   the inconsistencies ofpastdevelopment activities.

   Monitoring and encouragement of the trend toward decentralization.                The PAPNDP would
   strengthenthe capacities of communes and support a financial mechanism for channeling resources to
   communes and communities. Empowering local governments through capacity-building activities and
   resources, while mandating transparency, could initiate a process whereby electoral accountability
   could better express itself.


4. Program description and performancetriggers for subsequentloans:
   The PNDP would be executed under an APL in three four-year phases. An APL would allow for a
   flexible, long-term intervention covering the whole country, while tailoring activities to capacity and
   experience that would be progressively developed.

   Phase 1: Initiation

   The first phase would define the approach and methods and would implement them in 5 o f 10
   provinces: Province du Nord, Province de I'Ouest, Province de lYdamaoua, Province du Centre, and
   Province du Sud. To increase the chances o f success, these regions were chosen by the Government o f



                                                     - 9 -

Cameroon under the following criteria: (i) poverty level definedby the 2001 ECAM-I1poverty survey,
(ii)continuity where participatory initiatives have already been implementedand raised local
expectations, and (iii) agroecological diversity. Inthe 5 regions, the PNDP would expand the scope o f
previous local participatory development projects. For example, it would cofinance the implementation
of subprojects in communities which have already prepared local development plans under the
PNVRA. Communes would be strengthenedunder the PNDP, and interventions would dependon their
capacities. The role o f the FEICOM would be definedonce its audit has beencompleted.

Phase2: Expansion

The second phase would expand the strategies o f the first phase to all provinces. It would maintain
PNDP support to communities from the previous phase and target new eligible communes to reach at
least one community per rural commune. Local development responsibilities would be increasingly
transferred from project entities to the communes. Collaboration among communes supported during
the previous phase would be promoted, and intercommunal projects would be cofinanced if
communities so request.

Phase3: Consolidation

The final phase would (i)complete national coverage and (ii)support institutional and
capacity-building activities aimed at developing a sustainable institutional and financial mechanism for
supporting local development. Local development responsibilities would be totally transferred to
communes.




                                               -10-

      Performance triggers for subsequent loans

      Phasesmightrunconcurrently because they would be triggeredby the following performance results:


                                          PERFORMANCETRIGGERS


                   Initiation
       -riggers    - 50%    of targeted communitieshave defined and adopted a local development plan and
                   -- electedofa local committee;
                       50% of these communitieshave fully and successfully implementedone subproject;

                   -- 25%
                       50%     targeted communes have defined and adopted a communal development plan;
                            of these communes have fully and successfully implementedone subproject;
                        10%of targeted communes have acquired enough capacity to receive and manage

                   - 25%
                       PAPNDPfunds:

                   -- 50%   of the component 1have been disbursed;
                            of targeted communes have profitedfrom training programs:
                   - Status
                       Legal texts on decentralizationhave been drafted;
                              and organizaton charts of communes have been prepared
          ~




                   Expansion
       -riggers    -- 50%
                        100%of rural communes have been covered;
                            of targeted communities have defined and adopted a local development plan and

                   ----.25%
                       elected a local committee;
                       50% of these communities have fully and successfully implementedone subproject;
                       50% of targeted communes have defined and adopted a communal development plan;
                       25% of these communes have fully and successfully implementedone subproject;
                            of communes receive and manage PAPNDP funds;
                       Financialresources are channeled to communes through a transparent and sustainable
                   - mechanism;on
                       Legaltexts     decentralizationhave been adopted by the Government.



   1-1            IConsolidation                                                                          1


C. Program and ProjectDescriptionSummary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):

   The project would have four components: (i)supporting local development, (ii)          supporting the
   decentralization process, (iii)capacity-building at the local level, and (iv) supporting project
   management and coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and communication (see annex 2 for a
   detailed description).


                                                    -11 -

   For each component, the preliminary cost estimates are as follows:




 Supporting local development                                       53.07         64.1        10.00        50.0
 Supporting the decentralization process                             5.56          6.7         0.86         4.3
 Capacity-building at the locallevel                                 10.22        12.3         3..59       18.0
 Supporting project management and coordination,                     13.97        16.9         5.55        27.8
monitoring andevaluation, and communication
                                            Total Project Costs     82.82        100.0        20.00       100.0
                                  TotalFinancingRequired            82.82        100.0        20.00       100.0
                                                                                                    '




2. Keypolicyandinstitutionalreforms supportedbythe project:
   The PAPNDP would favor decentralization.            Specific legal texts required to complete the legal
   framework in the 1996 constitution have been under preparation for five years. The texts are expected
   to set out (i) general rules applicable to communes, (ii) rules applicable to regions, (iii)
                                                             general                                 specific
   provisions applicable to communal elected authorities, and (iv) specific provisions applicable to
   regional elected authorities andregional staff. On finance, a 1998decree relaxed the "single treasury" (
   unicitd de caisse) principle previously imposed on councils. But there is no provision for mandatory
   transfer o f financial resources to municipalities, except for taxes to be withheld at the source and used
   by councils. The project would assist the Government of Cameroon in finalizing the regulatory
   framework for decentralizing communes.

   The PAPNDP would consolidate financial mechanisms to channel funds to communes and
   communities. Cofmancing subprojects would strengthen financial management capacities at all levels:
   community, commune, region, and center. The project would support a financial mechanism (possibly
   FEICOM, depending on the results o f its current audit) for channeling funds to the local level. The
   project would then strengthen FEICOM's capacities to assume its responsibilities, and communes
   would be able to take advantage o f more financing.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:



     Benefits                                              Target population
     Empowerment o f rural communities                     Rural communities
    Increasedinvolvement o fwomen andvulnerable           Vulnerable groups inparticipating communities
    groups inthe processes of decision-making,            (indigenous communities, nomads, women, etc.)
    definition o fpriority actionplans, and
    implementation oversight
    Increased capacity o f community-based                Community-based organizations inparticipating
    organizations to plan andimplement priority           communities
    activities
    Increasedcapacity among local government              Local government officials andtheir constituents
    officials to develop communal action plans and
    budgets
   I                                                      I


                                                    -12-

     Increased capacity among technical staff (NGO,      Local technical staff and participating communities
     decentralized technical services, communal staff)
     to facilitate community participation processes
      Improvedrural infrastructure (roads, bridges,       Rural communities
      schools, dispensaries, wells, etc.) and service
      delivery (education, health, extension, road
      maintenance, HIV/AIDS prevention, etc.)


    Target poDulation:

    The first phase will define the approach and methods and will implement them in five out o f ten
    regions: Province du Nord, Province de I'Ouest, Province de IYdamaoua, Province du Centre and
    Province du Sud. In order to increase the PNDP's chances of success, these regions were chosen by
    the GoC according to the following criteria: (i) poverty level as defined by the 2001 ECAM-I1poverty
    survey; (ii)continuity where participatory initiatives have been initiated and closed and have raised
    great local expectations, and (iii)agroecological diversity.

    PAPNDP mechanisms have already been tested in 10 pilot rural communes. They have been chosen
    based on the following criteria: (i)previous community planning experience in several villages, (ii)
    interest and commitment on the part o f local administrators and traditional authorities, and (iii)
    presence o f public/private service providers. The Project has worked first with the villages that already
    have some experience with the community-based approach, subsequently expanding to surrounding
    villages within one commune.

    Totally the five provinces count 152 rural communes and activities in38 communes will be financed by
    IDA Credit. The 28 additional rural communes to the 10 pilot ones will be chosen according to
    govemance quality and poverty level criteria.

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:


    Institutionaland ImplementationArrangements:
    The first of three phases o f the PNDP would be implementedover four years, although the subsequent
    phases might overlap since they would launch when predefined performance triggers are reached (see
    B.4.).

    The project would be placed under the responsibility o f the Ministry o f Economic Affairs,
    Programming, andRegional Development.

    The program's institutional arrangementshave been definedaccordingto the following principles:
   e     The Government and local beneficiaries must participate in financial support to subproject
         decisionmaking, becauseboth are contributing financial resources.
   0     Implementation entities must display transparency and efficiency, and avoid undue delay between
         community requests andimplementation o f subprojects.
   e     Successful project implementation requires all stakeholders (Government, communities; local
         governments; nongovernmental organizations, or NGOs; donors) to be actively involved.
   0     Community-level subprojects must be consistent with national sectoral policies.

   The PAPNDP is organized to comply with the dencentralization framework, especially with regard to



                                                    - 13-

rural communes. Four levels are involved inPAPNDP's organization:

Village and community level. After a participatory assessment, a community would prepare a local
development plan that reflects its perceived priorities. Participatory planning would be facilitated by
operators contracted by the project. The community would elect a council that would be responsible for
(i) verifying that subprojects are consistent with local development plan, (ii)performing a technical and
financial appraisal of subprojects to be submitted, (iii)collecting contributions, (iv) implementing
subprojects, (v) monitoring subprojects implementation, (vi) submitting subprojects requests to the
Communal Decision Committee, and (vii) electing representatives to the Communal Decision
Committee. Some communities are already organized and might have already elected local councils.
Instead o f creating new structures, the PAPNDP would build on existing bodies, and communities
would be free to decide whether they wish to keep or restructure them. After the LDP has been
approved by the Communal Decision Committee, community-based organizations within the
community would prepare submit subprojects.

Commune level. The commune plays a major role in the PAPNDP mechanism. It is the "maitre
d'ouvrage'' for all subprojects (commune or community level), but community-level subprojects would
be jointly implemented by communes and communities. Communal Decision Committees would be
established with representatives o f decentralized technical            ministries, local governments,
community-based organizations and NGOs. The committees would (i)             approve local development
plans, (ii) subproject proposals according to specific eligibility criteria (checking inparticular
             approve
their technical and financial quality and consistency with national standards), (iii)coordinate activities
among communities, and (iv) supervise subproject implementationwithregular field missions.

Province level. Two entities would be involved at the provincial level:
- Provincial Decision Committees would have the same mandate as Communal Decision Committee,
but they would be responsible for approving communal development plans and subproject proposals
from communes. The committees would comprise representatives from decentralized technical services,
includingthe FEICOM, communes, the National Assembly, and NGOs.
- Provincial Project Units (PPUs) would be in charge o f day-to-day PAPNDP implementation in each
province. Because most activities would be subcontracted to local service providers, each unit would
consist o f a small team o f specialists (a regional coordinator, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, a
social and environmental specialist, a capacity-building and communication specialist, a technician in
charge o f communities development, a technician in charge o f communes development and an
accounting specialist). The PPUs would be responsible for (i)       channeling funds to beneficiaries, (ii)
launching capacity-building activities, (iii)coordinating activities in the province, and (iv) managing
the monitoring and evaluation system.

Central level. Two entities would be involvedat the central level:
- A steering committee, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Programming,
and Regional Development, would represent all stakeholders: several ministries (MINEPAT,
MINAGRI, MINEPIA, MINEF, MINSANTE, MINATD, MINEDUC), local governments, NGOs,
communities, and chambers. It would approve the PAPNDP's annual work plan and budgets, review
its activities, and communicate on those topics.
- A National Coordination Unit (NCU), also under the responsibility o f the Ministry of Economic
Affairs, Programming, and Regional Development, would manage the project at the central level. The
N C U includes a project coordinator, an assistant, an administrative and financial specialist, a
monitoring and evaluation specialist, a capacity-building and communication specialist, a social and
environmental specialist, a procurement specialist, and an accounting specialist. The N C U would


                                                 - 14-

consolidate monitoring and evaluation data from PPUs and supervise their activities, work plans, and
budgets.

FinancialManagementArrangements:
The first phase o f the PNDP will be carried out over four years. Procurement, disbursement, and
decentralized financial management practices will benefit from a wealth o f new and simplified methods
developed and standardized recently in the Bank. These are described in Guidelinesfor Simplified
Procurement and Disbursement for Community-based Investments, February 1998; Guidelines for
Africa Region on Financial Management for Community Action Programs, October 2000; and
Guidelines for Task Teams on Procurement Procedures Used in Social Funds, February 2001, and
Fiduciary managementfor Community-driven Developmentprojects, March 2002 (draft).

1. Capacity Assessment o fthe National Coordination Unitand Financial MonitoringReports

Based on program implementation arrangement, the overall responsibility for financial management
will remain with the N C U and carried out by the Project Coordinator, the Assistant Coordinator and
the Administrative and Financial Specialist. Accordingly, the scope o f the assessment has been limited
to the NCU. However, given the decentralized nature o f the program, the coordination and reporting
mechanisms between the entities involved in the program and the N C U will be looked at to ensure the
arrangements inplace will allow for smooth implementationo fprogram's activities as well as to ensure
that loan proceeds are used only for the purposes for which the loan is granted, with due regard to
economy, efficiency, andthe sustainable achievement o f the program's development objectives.

The capacity of the NCU is acceptable andthe preparation activities are inprogress. The objective is
to have a fully established and functional N C U to declare the program effective so that at the outset o f
the implementation of the activities, the NCU has the appropriate accounting, internal control, and the
relevant financial reporting systems inplace. This will allow the N C U to (i) record andreport
                                                                                  reliably
the financial transactions o f the program ina timely manner, including those transactions involving the
use o f Bank funds and other donors ; and (ii) sufficient and relevant financial informationfor
                                                provide
managing and monitoring program activities.

The N C U through its financial management and accounting unit will have the overall responsibility o f
the program financial management. It will have to maintain program's consolidated budget and
accounts. To that end, the financial management and accounting unit will be equipped with a
computerized and integrated financial management appropriate to the scale and nature o f the different
phases o f the program and capable o f recording and reporting in a timely manner the program's by
geographical locations, components, activities , expenditure categories and origin o f funds. The
computerized financial management system will be multi-currency and will include the following
modules which should be integrated : general accounting, cost accounting, assets management,
preparation o f withdrawal applications and tracking o f disbursements by donors, reports generating,
including quarterly FMR and annual financial statements. A fully functioning financial management
system satisfactory to the Bank i s considered as a condition o f credit effectiveness.

A Project ImplementationManual and a ProjectAdministrative, Financial and Accounting Manualare
available and describes procedures. It describes : (i) the overall organization of the program including
and organizational diagram andjob description of the accounting and financial staff; (ii)  the accounting
system to be followed; (iii)  the main transactions cycles; format, content, and timing of the program's
financial reporting, Le., financial statements and other financial reports includingFMRs, filing system,
etc.; (iv) the various operational procedures including budget management ( planning, execution and


                                                - 15-

monitoring ) and management o f assets, procurement o f goods ands services, disbursement; and (v)
internal control procedures.

2. Financial Management

Financial Mechanism (See Annex 12):
Two special accounts will be opened for the implementation o f the Project, and they will be managed
by the NCU:
o    Special Account A (SA-A) to co-finance the subprojects;
o    Special Account B (SA-B) for other activities.
Details o f the financial management arrangements, including reporting, are detailed inthe PIM and the
Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual.

Accounting and Financial Reporting. The NCU will maintain the books and accounts o f Project
activities at the Central level and on a consolidated basis as well. The PPUs will maintain the books
and accounts o f the Project activities. The N C U will ensure that the production o f the annual financial
statements are done in a timely manner. A financial management firm will be selected to design and
install a computerized accounting and financial management system, based on internationally generally
acceptable accounting principles agreed with the Bank. The consultant will also prepare the
accompanying guidelines for the software operations and will ensure that the computerized guidelines
match the Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual. The Manual will be approved by
IDA. The consultant will be responsible for the initial training of the accounting and financial
management staff on the efficient operation o f the computerized accounting system. They will also be
responsible for the preparation o f a training program infinancial management with an implementation
timetable and will provide NCUPPUs with assistance. The selection o f the accounting software will
ensure that the system is supported by a reliable organization.

The N C U and the PPUs will maintain their accounts in accordance with International Accounting
Standards, and the quality o f financial management has been verified by auditors during the first phase
o f the Program. The N C U and the PPUs will keep all documentation related to Project expenditures,
and will all at times keep financial records inaccordance with sound accounting practices to reflect its
operations and financial position. These records would be made available to Bank missions and
independent auditors. The consolidated accounts of the Project maintained by the NCU would be
audited on an annual basis. The audltors would include PPUs selected on a random basis inan annual
audit.




                                                 -16-

   Financial Monitoring Reports. The NCU's responsibilities for preparation of Financial Monitoring
   Reports (FMRs) are explained in the Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual and in
   the PIM. The administrative and financial specialist will be responsible for preparing the FMRs, while
   the Coordinator of the N C Uwill be responsible for ensuring that they are provided to stakeholders and
   IDA on a quarterly timely basis. FMRs will provide information that establish (i)whether funds
   disbursedto projects are beingusedfor the purpose intended; (ii)    whether Project implementation is on
   track; and (iii)that budgetedcosts will not be exceeded. Financial information will be linked explicitly
   with the physical progress and procurement of the Project. The annual financial statements of the
   Project will be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and will include
   (i) discussion o f Project progress, (ii)sources and uses o f funds statement, (iii) o f funds by
                                                                                          uses
   expenditure type (iv) the output monitoring report, and (v) the procurement report. The audited
   financial statements will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end o f the fiscal year.
   The computerized accounting system will be customized to generatethe FMRsrequiredinthe forms as
   indicated in "Financial Monitoring Reports for World Bank-Financed Projects: Guidelines for
   Borrowers". A statement showing cash receipts by sources and expenditures by main classification,
   beginning and ending cash balances of the Project, and supporting schedules comparing actual and
   planned expenditures. Adequate financial management arrangements, including the ability to produce a
   timelyFMR, will be inplace by credit effectiveness.

   Auditing. Project records and accounts will be audited in accordance with internationalaudit standards
   by an experienced and intemationally recognized audit firm acceptable to IDA. The audit reports will
   be submitted to IDA within six months after the end of Govemment fiscal year. The auditor will
   produce their standard short-form report with an opinion on the annual financial statements, the SOEs
   and the special accounts. In addition the auditors will be required to: (i) out a comprehensive
                                                                                 carry
   review of all the SOEs as well as the intemal control procedures governing their preparation for the
   relevantperiodunder audit; and (ii) the management and utilizationof the special accounts and
                                       review
   the Project account; (iii) auditor will complete their in-depth review, started at interim (see
                              the
   paragraph below), o f the intemal control system o f the Project with a view to identify the major
   weaknesses and shortcomings and proposing practical recommendations for improvement. Regarding
   the matching grants for the Financial Support to Rural Communities, the audit firm will review the
   performance of randombeneficiaries, and provide a specific opinion on the effectiveness and efficiency
   of the lending and distribution procedures. The results o f this review would be documented in a
   Management Letter to be submitted along with the audit report.

   The auditors will review and audit, as a part of the Project first year audit, the use o f the PPF and
   PHRD Grant funds covering the period prior to effectiveness. They will also perform interimaudits (9
   months into the fiscal year) to review the intemal control system including management performance,
   and issue reports to that effect within one month from the end o f their work. The findings and
   recommendations o f the interimreports will be addressedby management without delay before the final
   audit which report is due 6 months after the closing o f the fiscal year. The contracting o f auditors on a
   renewable multi-year contract, acceptable to IDA, and certification by the financial auditors that the
   Project accounting system is operational, is a condition of credit effectiveness.


D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:




                                                   - 1 7 -

    A long-term lending tool. The only feature o f the program for which altemative options were
    considered was the use o f an APL. The choice o f an APL recognizes that support for
    community-driven development requires a long-term commitment from the Bank and other donors.
    Many reforms, especially those related to fiscal, political, and administrative decentralization, require
    further study and maturation and would take 10-15 years to implement. As part of the preparation
    process a decision was made to promote a shared understanding with the Government o f Cameroon on
    what the triggers should be for subsequentphases.

    A secondphase of the National Agricultural Extension and Research Program Support Project. The
    PNVRA aims to improve farmer productivity and income through an integrated, farmer-oriented
    agricultural extension system and a demand-driven research system. The project has launched pilot
    initiatives to assess the needs o f village communities and prepare development plans. Lessons from
    these pilot operations have helped define the PANDP. While some PNVRA activities could be relevant
    to the PANDP, agricultural services and producer organizations would be supported by other projects
    underthe secondthematic branchofthe rural development strategy. The PNVRA, originally scheduled
    to close in2003, has been extended to June 2004.

2. Major relatedprojectsfinancedby the Bankand/or other developmentagencies (completed,
ongoingand planned).
                                                                                  Latest Supervision
  ~~




               Sector Issue                             Project                     (PSR) Ratings
                                                                            (Bank-financedprojects only)
                                                                            Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                                Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)

Agriculture                                 NationalAgricultural Extension                          S
                                            and Research Program Support
                                            Project (PNVRA), Cr31370,
                                            active
Infrastructure                              Douala Infrastructure Project,                          S
                                            Cr36940, active
Infrastructure                              Transport Sector Project,                               S
                                            Cr28690, active
Health                                      Multisectoral HIV/AIDS                                  S
                                            Project, Cr34540, active
Energy                                      Petroleum Development and                               S
                                            Pipeline Project, Cr70200,
                                            active
Energy                                      Petroleum Environment                                  U
                                            Capacity Enhancement Project,
                                            Cr33720, active
Environment                                 CameroonForestry /
                                            Environment, planned,
Private Sector                              Public/Private Partnership,                             S
                                            Growth, and Poverty Reduction
                                            Project, Cr33590, active
Other developmentagencies
French Cooperation                         Local development, Rural
                                           development



                                                     - 18-

GermanCooperation                           Health, Forestry, Rural
                                            development
DFID                                        Forestry
Afncan Development Bank                     Local development, Rural
                                            development
FIDA                                        Local development, Rural
                                            development


3. Lessonslearnedandreflectedin the projectdesign:

   Lessons in Cameroon. The Bank has developed significant community development experience in
   Cameroon through the PNVRA, the GEF-Biodiversity, and pilot activities during PAPNDP
   preparation. Lessons have been also learned from projects financed by other development agencies,
   especially the PDOB (French Development Agency). These operations have shown that:
        Community participation inplanning and financing local investments can yieldpriority investments
        that better reflect local needs. Other donors have supported similar village- or community-based
        schemes.
        Working exclusively at the community level has some limitations as well. The main concems relate
        to the appropriate selection o f investments (some may be larger than any one community needs or
        can finance), financial sustainability (the need to finance recurrent costs), political accountability
        (Who is responsible for decisionmaking, how are they selected, to whom are they accountable?),
        andreplicability (How canthis be scaledupthroughout the country?).
        Capacity-building at the community level must be addressed before transferring resources to
        communities. Transferring resources without adequate attention to capacity-building could
        exacerbate rent-seeking behavior by local elites. Participatory processes that empower vulnerable
        groups would mitigate this risk.
        Responsibilities assigned to local governments must not exceed their level o f competence.
        Transferring resources to local governments without clear management procedures, mechanisms
        for transparency, and lines o f accountability could lead to rent-capturing by local leadership or
        bureaucracy.
        Adequate follow-up after the establishment o f community action plans i s necessary. Without
        continuing support from qualified technicians, up to half o f participating communities encounter
        serious problems implementing their action plans. Support is needed to reinforce the participatory
        process, train community leaders in financial management, and make administrative arrangements
        for support from local service providers. The proposed operation includes multisectoral teams to
        provide this support.

   Lessons from other countries.          The Bank has supported many community-dnven development
   initiatives in Africa. One o f the first projects in Central Africa was the Community Action Program in
   the Borgouregion of Benin. It offers the following lessons:
   0    Communities must be organized with a special participatory process (village-level participatory
        approach) to address the development needs o f their constituencies, particularly marginalized
        groups (herders), the underprivileged, women, and the young, and prioritize these needs at
        community level.
   0    The training process can be contracted to any operator with the required expertise (consultant
        firms, government services, NGOs).
   0    Communities attach more importance to the speed o f service delivery and accountability o f
        operators than to the level o f contribution (financial or inkind) they have to provide. Bureaucracy



                                                      - 19-

         must thus be limited, and intermediaries must be avoided between communities and their
         institutional partners (project management, financial institutions, government, and services
         providers).
         Direct communication between communities and project staff is essential. Staff should be recruited
         locally, provided they have the necessary expertise, or be fluent in at least one local language.
         Project management must be nimble andclose to the beneficiaries (geographically and culturally).
         Operational interinstitutional links must be spelled out clearly in framework contracts from the
         start o f implementation to avoid conflicts and delays (with Government o f Cameroon's local
         services for review and technical support, with financial institutions for the management o f funds,
         and with other partners for technical support andtraining)
         Even when literacy is very low, communities can carry out procurement efficiently and
        transparently, often more efficiently than institutions (Government, projects, or NGOs), provided
        that the necessary steps have been taken to ensure ownership and understanding o f the processes
         and that supporting institutions (project) leave the actual leadership o f operations to them.
        Without specific targeting o f and outreach to indigenous communities, prior patterns o f
        marginalization are likely to continue.

4. Indicationsof borrower commitmentandownership:
    The Government of Cameroon signed a Rural Development Policy Letter on January 14, 2004 (see
    Annex ll), confirms its Rural Development Strategy and the Round Table recommendations,
                  that
    including that (i)  local development is one axis o f the strategy and (ii) PNDP would be the
                                                                                      the
    framework for local development projects inCameroon.

    To show its willingness to implement a national community development operation, the Government
    has earmarked HIPCfunds to CoJinaizce the PAPNDP (FCFA 16.3 billion).

    The Government of Cameroon has adopted an Arrdtk to spell out the PNDP institutional
    arrangements (ArrCte 002lPM dated January 9, 2004, "Portant organization du cadre institutionnel
    d'execution du Programme National de Dkveloppement Participatif')

    The Government of Cameroon is engaged in administrative decentralization. As stipulated in Law
    74/23 and the 1996 constitution, the Government o f Cameroon has begun to create decentralized
    entities. The commune, governed by an elected mayor and council, will be the decentralized body
    closest to communities. Communes will have a major role in local development, collecting and
    depositing financial resourcesand selecting, implementing, andmaintaining local investments.

    With the adoption of its Poverty Reduction StrateD, the Government of Cameroon has madepoverty
    reduction a core objective. The PNDP is explicitly detailed inthe PRSP as an implementationtool for
    the second priority ("strengthening of growth through diversification of economy"), the rural sector
    being a key sector for economic growth. The Government o f Cameroon has also earmarked FCFA 60
   millions as counterpart funds to be deposited into the project account prior to effectiveness.

5. Value added of Banksupport in this project:

    The Bank has been active in Cameroon in the area of local development.                    The Bank has a
   comparative advantage in supporting community participation, scaling up operations to achieve
   national coverage, and improving governance at the national and local levels. Other donors, on the
   other hand, have been much more active in supporting decentralization. While the Bank could
   contribute to strengthening local government, it would be important to ensure that efforts do not


                                                     - 20 -

   conflict with the work o f other donors.

   The Bank has strong multisectoral experience in Cameroon.               With its support to forestry,
   infrastructure, education, health, and agriculture, the Bank has been instrumental over the past decade
   in helping the Government develop and implement operations enabling communities to gain control
   over service delivery and resource allocation. The Bank's presence in these sectors would allow it to
   participate inefforts to harmonize support to community action plans.

   The Bank has acquired broad experience with community-driven development projects in Africa.
   Several community-driven development projects are under way in Africa (Benin, Burkina Faso,
   Ethiopia, Guinea, Madagascar, Senegal), and some have already entered their second phase. The Bank
   acquired solid experience insocial fimds basedon the demand-driven development approach.

   The Bank is strivingfor better donor coordination in rural development in Cameroon. The Bank
   plays a strong role indonor coordination for rural development in Afixa, especially in Cameroon. The
   Bank led several multidonor preparation missions that ended with the financial and technical
   commitments o f several partners. Several multidonor meetings (2001, January 2002 and December
   2002) helped finalize the program design. French Cooperation and German Cooperation already
   declared their support o f the PAPNDP. French Cooperation would finance PAPNDP activities with a
   contribution o f US$ 25 million provided after HIPC completion point. In case of delay o f the
   completion point, IDA-financed activities would not bejeopardized because they do not depend on each
   other.


E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit        NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)
   The PAPNDP does not lenditself to cost-benefit analysis because:
   o   All investments would be demand-driven, andtheir nature can not be knownbeforehand.
   o   All eligible subprojectswouldbenonproductive.
   o   The economic benefits of capacity-building are difficult to quantify.
   Economic criteria are included in the Project Implementation Manual to appraise the economic
   dimensiono f subprojects.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 andAnnex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
   Financial mechanism. The PNDP would dispense financial support through a matching grant system.
   Beneficiaries would have to make a contribution before receivingproject funds.
   Once a subproject is approved at the province level (by the Provincial Decision Committee), a
   financing contract would be signed by the relevant PPU and commune. A grant would then be
   transferred to a bank account especially set up by the commune.
   Once a subproject is approved at the commune level (Communal Decision Committee), a financing
   contract would be signed by the relevant PPU, commune, and community-based organization. The
   grant would be transferred to a bank account set up by the commune and the community-based
   organization. FEICOM's mission inthe financial mechanism would be determined after its audit.




                                                   -21  -

Fiscal Impact:

    The PAPNDP would support fiscal decentralization by assisting the Government infinalizing the legal
    and regulatory framework, and strengthening communes' financial management capacities. The
    FEICOM would be strengthened based on the recommendations of the audit report so that it can
    channel funds to local governments.

3. Technical:
    Technical quality. Eligibility criteria inthe Project ImplementationManual would be usedto appraise
    the technical quality of subproject proposals. Technical ministries, such as the Ministries o f Health,
    Education, and Public Works, would be involved in the process, including community planning and
    approval o f plans and subprojects, to ensure technical quality and consistency with national standards.
    Technical ministry clearance would be mandatory before subprojects can be submitted to Decision
    Committees.

    Subprojects implemented with labor-intensive methods and using local workers would receive
    preference.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executingagencies:

    Consistency with the decentralization agenda.            The PAPNDP is designed to support the
    decentralization now under way. The Government has officially confirmed that the commune will be
    the most decentralized level in Cameroonian politics. The commune would thus be the center of the
    PAPNDP's institutional arrangements. Commune Decision Committees would oversee local
    development, determine consistency, and approve subprojects. The weak technical and financial
    capacities o f communes mean that Decision Committees would initially be independent and part o f the
    PAPNDP, with membership to include the mayor and communal representatives. Once the capacities
    o f the communes have been strengthened, they would take over the responsibilities of the Decision
    Committees.

    Communes and communities. The main actors inthe PAPNDP are communes and communities. The
    project aims to strengthen and empower communes and communities to handle their development. The
    project would support strong partnerships among communes and communities. Conventions would be
    signed between them to delegate authority to communities (as set out in the Project Implementation
    Manual). For community subprojects, although the commune would own the infrastructure, the
    commune and the community-based organization would open ajoint bank account to receive PAPNDP
    grants, would jointly subcontract to service providers, and would jointly monitor subproject
    implementation.

4.2 Project management:

    Limitedmanagerial and technical capacity is a serious constraint at the decentralized level, particularly
    inruralareas. The PAPNDP would (i)       capitalize and buildupon previous community-based initiatives
    and(ii) considerable resourcesfor capacity-building, especially duringthe first phase.
            deploy

4.3 Procurement issues:

The Country Procurement Assessment Review which was carried out in Cameroun in2000 by a national
committee representing all the sectors and a team from The World Bank found that the national



                                                     - 22 -

procurement system needed a major reform as the procedures for procurement o f works, goods, and
services were weak in several areas. The Government, with the Bank's assistance, started to implement the
recommended reforms o f which the following actions have already been accomplished: (a) preparation o f a
new procurement code, (b) signature o f the decree regarding the Commisson des Marchks, (c) audit o f
public procurement for 2000 and 2001 by an intemational auditor, (d) establishment o f specialized
procurement commissions and (e) appointment o f independentobservers. Since most procurement would be
conducted at the local level, during appraisal, a particular attention was paid to procurement rules and
procedures that would apply to community-based subprojects and carried out by community participation
procedures acceptable to the Bank and described inthe Project Implementation Manual. While the N C U at
the national level would be responsible for monitoring all procurement-related issues for project
implementation, the PPUs at the regional level would be responsible for coordinating project activities at
the community level.

4.4 Financial management issues:

    At the commune level. Financial management capacity at the commune level varies widely, but overall
    it is rather weak. The ProjectAdministrative, Financial and Accounting Manualcontains current rules,
    regulations, and procedures to serve as training tools for capacity-building o f financial management
    staff at the commune level and to identify areas requiring further clarification or reform for enhanced
    transparency and efficiency o f financial management.

    At the community level. Like the communes, communities need much capacity-building in financial
    management. Specifically, procedures and mechanisms need to be designed andagreedon to ensure full
    transparency and the involvement o f vulnerable groups. Considerable experience has been acquired in
    other countries (Benin, Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Indonesia) and in Cameroon. The program preparation
    team would draw on those experiences in designing financial management procedures for the
    community level.

5. Environmental:                         Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) andthe significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.

    Preparation of Environmental Assessment documents. As part o f the preparation, the following
    studies were undertaken: (i)   an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF), (ii)         a
    Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), and (iii)an Indigenous People Development Plan (IPDP).
    Terms o f reference were drafted during the participatory pre-appraisal mission with multiple
    stakeholders. The ESMF and RPF studies were carried out by intemational and local consultants. The
    intemational consultants visited Cameroon January 27-February           13, 2003. The visit included
    interviewsinYaounde, field visits to four of the five provinces selected for the program's first phase,
    and a final workshop held via videoconference. The IPDP was carried out separately, between March
    10, 2003 and April 8, 2003, by an intemational consultant knowledgeable of the Baka, Kola, and Aka
    (pygmy) ethnic groups. The study included interviews in Yaoundk, two field visits, and two
    participatory workshops. The reports were issued in the country and in the Bank's Infoshop on June
    19, 2003.

    Significant issues. Most o f the developments or subprojects plannedunder the PAPNDP's community
    financial support would be small. Their direct negative environmental and social impacts are therefore
    likely to be small. The project would not have any large, significant, or irreversible impacts. Because
    the financial support to subprojects remain very modest andbecause they would be distributedto many
    communities during the project's first phase, there is little risk o f cumulative impact o f combined
    subprojects. Insome areas, though, many community subprojects may create cumulative impacts.


                                                   - 23 -

5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?

   Principle. The ESMF proposes that environmental and social considerations be fully incorporated into
   the participatory process for identifying, implementing, and monitoring activities or subprojects, to
   ensure that operations are screenedfor potential impacts and are consistent with Bank safeguards.

   Mainstreaming environmental and social considerations into the PNPD design. Environmental
   policy formulation is being finalized but is still in an early stage o f development in Cameroon . The
   capacity for environmental management is still weak. Qualified staff trained in impact assessment are
   scarce, andbudgets are inadequateto carry out impact assessments at the community level.
   To carry out the environmental impact assessmentsneeded for the project:
   0   Key focal points incharge of coordinating and implementingthe ESMF would be designated (i)       in
       the N C U (a social and environmental specialist), (ii)in the PPU (a social and environmental
       specialist), and (iii)
                            at the local level (service providers contracted to support community-based
       organizations and communes inplanning and subproject preparation).
   0   Subproject impact guidelines relevant to the main types o f subprojects submitted by CBOs would
       be developed by the end o f the first year to facilitate assessment and formation o f recommended
       measuresto mitigate and address potential impacts. The guidelines would be used to train CBOs in
       performing their own impact studies.
   0   The PAPNDP would ensure that all levels of project management and service providers are given
       adequate preparation and sensitivity training in socioenvironmental issues, and would build
       capacity for implementation o f the ESMF and the RPF. Training would be provided in, but not
       limited to: (i)the use of the project's screening and reporting system, (ii) between natural
                                                                                     links
       resource management and sustainable rural livelihoods, (iii)     potential localized and cumulative
       impacts and suitable mitigation measures, (iv) relevant environmental policies, and (v) the
       PAPNDP's approach to policy reform and enforcement. The PAPNDP would also provide basic
       outreach and awareness training for community representatives and interested members o f the
       communities to raise the level o f environmental consciousness, promote adoption o f the screening
       checklist by literate community members, and alert communities to environmentally positive
       subprojects that the PAPNDP could finance. These training and sensitization activities should be
       incorporated into the training required for smooth functioning of the entire project management
       system.

   Screening subprojects. Communal and Provincial Decision Committees would decide on subprojects.
   Each proposed subproject would be checked against a screening checklist o f social and environmental
   issues with the assistance, especially during the first years, of the PPUs or service providers. PPUs
   should encourage literate members of the communities and communes (animal health workers,
   teachers) to perform this task themselves. The checklist is a simple yes-no checklist, culminating in
   whether specific advice to the community on environmental mitigation, environmental assessment,
   Resettlement Action Plans, mini-Waste Management Plans, and mini-Pest Management Plans are
   necessary. Decisions are based on likely impacts. A full Environmental Impact Assessment is not
   anticipated to be necessary for all subprojects. The completed screening form would need to be
   submitted along with the subproject application. The subproject application should have a section on
   "Environmental and Social Concerns" where design features to avoid negative impacts and capture
   benefits are described and any "yes" responses on the form are discussed and justified. Committees
   would then make a determination on the eligibility o f subprojects, taking environmental and social
   factors into account according to Bank safeguards.

   Resettlement Policy Framework. Resettlement issues would be identified in the environmental and


                                                  - 24 -

    social screening. The Resettlement Policy Framework specifies when a Resettlement Action Plan
    (RAP) or abbreviated RAP is necessary. People affected by the subproject must be identified in the
    subproject application. RAPs and abbreviated RAPs would be prepared by CBOs with technical
    support from the social and environmental specialist o f the province and a pool o f commune and
    village-level consultants trained in land tenure policies and the Resettlement Policy Framework.
    Completed RAPs and abbreviated RAPs would be submitted to the decentralized decision committees
    for screening and approval. RAPs would be submitted to the Bank and the N C U during the first year
    for quality assurance (and additional training would be provided if gaps in quality are identified).
    Subsequent RAPs would be reviewed by decision committees and local management units under an
    independent annual review. Compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation must be satisfactorily
   completed andverified before funds can be disbursed for civil works.

   Indigenous People Development Plan (IPDP). Without specific measures, pygmy communities would
   not be able to share inthe benefits o f the PAPNDP and would face higher risk o f marginalization. The
   project will carry out the following activities to fulfill the requirements o f O D 4.20 at end and a budget
   has been dedicated andapproved for implementingthese activities :
        Establishequal legal opportunities:
       o   Establish equal legal status for Baka, Kola, and Aka individuals (including ID cards) to
           guarantee that they have the same citizenship rights as other Cameroonians and that they are
           taken into account by the councils.
       o   Establish equal legal conditions for indigenous people CBOs to reduce the risk o f further
           marginalizationand dependency on community leaders o f other ethnic groups.
       o   Establish community forests or traditional huntingzones for indigenous people CBOs to pursue
           their hunter-gatherer lifestyle;
   0    Establish equal financial opportunities:
       o   Offer Financial Support to the Baka, Kola, and Aka for financing subprojects at a subsidized
           rate becauseo f their very low economic capacity.
       o   Offer special programs to help the Baka, Kola, and Aka benefit from job-creation opportunities
           (teachers, healthpersonnel, civil servants) relatedto subprojects approved by the PAPNDP.
   0    Establish equal organizational opportunities:
       o   Assist the Baka, Kola, andAka indecisionmaking.
       o   Provide training on intercultural communication to civil servants and councilors working in
           subdivisions with indigenous people.
       o   Help the Baka, Kola, and Aka establish independent bodies at various levels to coordinate,
           communicate, and facilitate activities.
       o   Include indigenous people representativesinPAPNDP committees.
       o   Establish a participatory monitoring and evaluation system for the IPDP o f the PAPNDP.
   0    Equal cultural opportunities:
       o   Sensitize the Baka, Kola, and Aka to the risks o f development.
       o   Assist indigenous people with capacity-building to prevent the loss of traditional knowledge,
           culture, andlivelihoods.
       o   Create forums for communication and exchange between indigenous people and other ethnic
           groups and promote mutualunderstanding.

5.3 For Category A andB projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                    Date o f receipt o f final draft: June 13,2003
   All three draft reports have been reviewedby the Bank. The final reports have been adopted by the
   Government of Cameroon and the Bank, and they were made available in the Bank's Infoshop and in
   Cameroon on June 19,2003.



                                                       - 25 -

5.4 How have stakeholders beenconsulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmentalimpacts and proposed environment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?

     a) ESMF and RPF

     Stakeholder interviews in Yuoundi and Project Target Areas. Stakeholder consultation was key in
     achieving the ESMF and RPF objectives. The ESMF and RPF teams consulted stakeholders and key
     informants in Yaoundk. Four separate field visits to the Provinces du Nord, du Sud, de 1'Ouest et du
     Centre were carried out in January and February 2003. The purpose of these visits was to meet local
     governments and agencies and potential participating communes and communities, and to verify the
     Bank's initial analysis o f the project's potential environmental and social impacts. Key stakeholders
     consulted on the project included:
    0      Decentralized technical services.
    0      Communes.
    0      Community members.
    0      Environmental and social NGOs.
    0      Internationaldevelopment agencies and the staff o f agency-funded projects.

     Wrap-up and completion. A briefingmeeting inYaoundk to present and discuss preliminary findings
     o f fieldwork inthe four Provinces was held on February 13, 2003. After comments from stakeholders
     and Africa Safeguards Policy Enhancement (ASPEN) were incorporated into a draft report, a final
     workshop to present and discuss the final report took place on April 28, 2003 (through
     videoconference).

     b) IPDP


     The IPDP was carried out betweenMarch 10 andApril 8,2003, ina participatory manner and inclose
     collaboration with all stakeholders (governmental agencies, donor organization, indigenous population
     as defined inO D 4.20, other ruralpopulations, NGOs). The study had three phases:
           Government agencies incharge of the PAPNDP (PAPNDP Project Coordination, MINEPAT) and
           responsible for ethnic minorities (Cellule des populations marginales et des sinistrks, Ministry o f
           Social Services), donor organizations with projects affecting indigenous people (Petroleum
           Environment Capacity Enhancement Project, World Bank, PGPNGTZ, ProfornatlGTZ,
           ECOFAC, SNV), NGOs (CERAD, INADES, RACOPY, Catholic Mission) and associations o f
           indigenous people (ASBAK, CODEBABIK) offered background information and assessed the
           current approachesto integrating indigenous peoples into development.
           The Baka and Kola people were directly consulted during two five-day field missions. Possible
           impacts and mitigation measurements were discussed with the population as a whole and in
           separate meetings with young people, the elderly, men, and women.
           After completion o f the draft report, its findings and recommendations were discussed in a
          participatory workshop (including four representatives o f the Baka, four representatives o f the
          Kola, and representatives o f PAPNDP, the Ministry o f Social Services, and several NGOs). The
          participants agreed with the general findings and recommendations. In a second workshop, the
           IPDP was adopted by the PAPNDP as an official document o f the Government o f Cameroon, and
           an appropriate budget has been includedinthe project to cany out this work.




                                                     - 26 -

5.5 What mechanisms have been establishedto monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?

   Reporting. The PPUs social and environmental specialists would be responsible for the provinces'
    annual reports. The N C U social and environmental specialist would complete an annual synthesis of
    impacts, on the basis o f the province's annual report.

   Monitoring and evaluation
   0    The key issues include monitoring of water quality, biodiversity indicators, agricultural production,
        income generation, health, and population influx.The ESMF outlines indicators, baseline data, and
        targets, although monitoring indicators depend on specific project contexts.
   0    Monitoring for the whole project would take place at several levels and be the responsibility o f
        communities, Communal and Provincial Decision Committees, PPUs (by the person in charge o f
        monitoring and evaluation inthe PPUinrelation with the social and environmental specialists), the
        N C U (by the person incharge of monitoring and evaluation inthe N C U inrelation with the social
        and environmental specialist), andthe consultant contracted to undertake the annual audit. It would
        also be important to include the decision committees inmonitoring and evaluation and ensure that
        results and issues are reported back to them in a timely manner. Monitoring and evaluation
        reporting should occur monthly and be the primary responsibility o f the Monitoring andEvaluation
        Technicians working withthe social and environmental specialists.
   0    Annual audits o f social and environmental performance would be carried out by an independent
        consultant who would (i)     review the paper trail o f screening checklists, Environmental Impact
        Assessments, and resettlement reports; (ii)   make field visits to a selected number o f community
        subprojects to investigate compliance with proposed mitigation measures and identify potential
        impacts that are not being adequately addressed; and (iii) recommend practical improvements.

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

   Key social issues. Economic reforms have brought few tangible benefits for the poor. Poverty
   reduction continues to be a challenge due to poor infrastructure and inadequate delivery o f public
    services. Structural adjustment programs have decreased state spending on health, education,
    agricultural research, extension services, and road maintenance. Price liberalization and currency
    devaluation have raised the prices o fbasic necessities.

   Social impact of the program on the population at large. The PAPNDP would make a significant
   positive contribution to environmental and social sustainability in rural areas, by providing the tools
    and training to support community-driven development. Potentialpositive impacts include:
        The PAPNDP would strengthen traditional systems of environmental and social governance and
        would incorporate community dialogue and traditional chiefdoms.
        In some cases, less poverty in communities would decrease natural resource degradation and
        encourageconservation, but such safeguards as community management plansneed to be inplace.
        Strategically placed rural roads and associated services may lead to more sustainable agricultural
        systems andtimely transport o f agricultural production.
        More strategically placed small-scale water points would more evenly distribute human and
        livestock pressures.
        In some areas, efficient management and reversal of natural habitat degradation would have a
        positive impact on habitats and biodiversity.
        Better understanding o f the tools and mechanisms for assessing environmental and social impacts


                                                    - 27 -

     and participatory approaches to community development would ensure that such tools are used
     over the long term incommunities and villages across the provinces.
0    Investments in social infrastructure, such as schools, health clinics, sport and leisure facilities,
     markets, and the hke, would promote sustainable rural development.

The speciJicity of indigenous peoples (Baka, Kola, Aka).               Three pygmy groups are found in
Cameroon: the Baka (about 25,000 inthe southem part o f the Province de 1'Est and the eastem part o f
the Province du Sud), the Kola (about 3,500 inthe westem part of Cameroon's Province du Sud), and
the Aka (fewer than 500 along the border with the Central African Republic). The smaller groups of
Aka on the southeastem border are closely related to the Baka. The status o f the Baka and Kola
communities insouthem Cameroon is analyzed inthe IPDP.
Competition for space (for logging, conservation, cash crops) and several campaigns to sedentarize
them have confined these peoples, who formerly rangedover broad swaths of intact forest as full-time
hunters and foragers, to areas where they have "home bases" with agriculture and outlying locales
where some hunting is still practiced. The previous relationship of interdependence with sedentary
farmers, in which pygmies suppliedvillage labor during the hunting off-season and villagers relied on
the pygmies' production of meat and wild forest products, has evolved into the pygmies' increased
dependency on villagers for cash, work, and a few govemment-derived social services. Unlike other
ethnic groups, however, pygmy communities are not full-fledged citizens o f Cameroon. There is not a
single Baka or Kola civil servant, no pygmy membersbelong to the 339 village councils, and only one
o f Cameroon's 13,000 villages is headed by a pygmy. Rough estimates of cash income indicate that
pygmy households earn about a thirdofthe averageruralincome. The issues they face include:
    Most Baka and Kola do not have ID cards or birth cert@cates because they cannot afford the
    US$25 fee and because administrators are unfamiliar with pygmies. The pygmies cannot
    participate incivic life, register to vote, or interact on a legal basis with governmental services.
    Baka and Kola settlements are usually not considered independent villages, administratively
    speaking, and are therefore usually unable to articulate their needs to government institutions. The
     interests of the Baka and Kola are often at the mercy o f elected mayors who see themselves as
    representinga mostly Bantu constituency.
    Lands of ethnic minorities, hunter-gatherer societies, or settlements without legal status as
     independent villages do not have any form of legal protection. Pygmies have no way to acquire
    rights to "community forests'' or to defend the remnants of their "homelands" from outside
    interests.

An Indigenous People Plan is currently being implemented through FEDEC (Petroleum Environment
Capacity Enhancement Project) and is assisting already Baka and Kola communities in southem
Cameroon. Activities include: ID cards distribution, health assistance, school supplies delivery,
agricultural inputs delivery. PAPNDP-IPDP activities will be coordinated with FEDEC in areas where
the two plans overlap. A formal agreement highlightingoperational modalities for coordination is under
preparation.

Outcome of the IPDPprocess
0   The PAPNDP respects the dignity,rights, and culture o fthe Baka, Kola, andAka.
0   The PAPNDP ensures that the Baka, Kola, andAka receive benefits from the PAPNDP that are at
    least equal to, or better than, those enjoyed by other ethnic groups.
0   The PAPNDP assists the Baka, Kola, and Aka to improve their legal, political, societal, economic,
    cultural, andpsychological situation.
0   The Ministry o f Social Services is empowered to carry out the mandate assignedto the Department
    o f Marginalized Populations and its underfundeddivisional delegations.


                                                  - 28 -

   0    Important synergies with NGO partners are achieved by taking up the cause o f these dispossessed
       people.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?

   Consultation and participation during preparation. All stakeholders have been involved in project
   preparation. The preparation group includes representatives o f the Government, the private sector,
   NGOs, and the mayors o f main cities and rural towns. Several workshops have been organized in
   various regions, and field missions have visitedcommunities to seek comments and advice.

   Consultation andparticipation during implementation. The program is participatory inits approach.
   The principal actors under the PAPNDP are communities within rural communes. After a participatory
   assessment, a base community would prepare its local development planthat reflect perceived priorities
   and elect a council to represent them. This whole process would be facilitated by operators hiredby the
   project. Community-based organizations within the base community would then prepare subprojects
   requests andsubmit them.
   The Communal Decision Committee which approves CBOs subprojects, would consist o f
   representatives o f decentralized technical ministries, community-based organizations, rural communes,
   andNGOs.
   The Provincial Decision Committees whch approve communal subprojects, would be comprised of
   representatives from public services ,communes, the National Assembly, and NGOs.
   The Steering Committee would include representatives from the ministries affected by program
   activities, representatives o f beneficiaries, and representatives o f civil society. Donors would also be
   represented (as observers).

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration withNGOs or other civil society
organizations?

   NGOs and civil society are among the key stakeholders and would participate in project
   implementation. The PAPNDP would rely heavily on NGOs with participatory experience to assist
   communities in assessing their needs, organizing themselves, and preparing and implementing
   subprojects. Baka and Kola organizations in particular, such as ASBAK and CODEBABIK and the
   NGOs working with the Baka and Kola, would have key roles in IPDP implementation. They should
   receive preferential financial conditions and benefit from the capacity- building and training activities
   o f PAPNDP components.

6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovided to ensurethe project achieves its social
development outcomes?

   See E 6.2. All institutional entities would have representatives o f all stakeholders so that all interests
   are expressed.

6.5 How will the project monitorperformance interms o f social development outcomes?

   See E 5.5 for general social monitoring. (The process would be the same as for environmental
   monitoring.). Inaddition:

   For the IPDP. The IPDPproposed an independent, participatory monitoringandevaluation system for
   the IPDP. For monitoring and evaluating the impacts of mitigation strategies, an independent
   supervisory body that integrates indigenous people into the PAPNDP would be more effective than
   leaving these tasks to the program's Bantu-only monitoring and evaluation unit. An international
   supervisory body should conduct biannual evaluations o f the IPDP. Qualified Baka and Kola
   representatives should be allowed to participate in the PAPNDP's national monitoring and evaluation


                                                    - 29 -

   meetings. Draft impact indicators have been developed, and one of the first tasks of participatory
   impact monitoring is to redefine them. Dueto unreliable data collected during the baseline study for the
   monitoring and evaluation system, the size and distribution o f Baka, Kola, and Aka populations in
   divisions and subdivisions needto be clarified.

   For the RPF. RAPSwould be submitted to the Bank and the N C U during the first year for quality
   assurance (and additional training would be provided if gaps in quality are identified). Subsequent
   RAPSwould be reviewed by decentralized decision committees and local management units under an
   independent annual review.

7. Safeguard Policies:



   Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP4.04)




7.2 Describe provisionsmade by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.

   Environmental assessment. OP 4.0 1was triggered because o f the potential for negative environmental
   impacts, mainly o f a localized nature and associated with activities to be financed by the community
   investment fund. An ESMF was designed to ensure that the PAPNDP complies with the country's
   environmental policies and donor safeguards. Most negative impacts can be mitigated and are
   addressed under the ESMF by the screening and review procedures. But Cameroon's environmental
   management capacity is currently very weak. So a list o f projects not to be financed during the first
   year o f project implementation, until sufficient capacity for screening and mitigating subproject
   impacts is developed, has been made. The ESMF also identified the major environmental and social
   issues that could result from project interventions and proposed measures, including training and
   monitoring, to mitigate them.The EA has been disclosed by the Government o f Cameroon on June 19,
   2003.

   Natural habitats. The OP 4.04 was triggeredbecause o f the potential for PAPNDP activities to affect
   natural habitats. The project borders or operates in several natural habitats, specifically in the North
   (Faro, BenouC, and Bouba-Ndjidda) and inthe South (Camp-Ma'an). Moreover, the PAPNDP aims to
   finance investments in natural habitats and biodiversity conservation. Cameroon possesses great
   biodiversity and several legally protected areas. The ESMF would identify any potential impacts that
   project-financed activities may have on natural habitats, reserves, or protectedareas.

   Forestry. The PAPNDP aims to support natural resource management through several subprojects,
   including soil protection and restoration, reforestation and woodlots, support for simple management
   plans for community forests, and management o f buffer zones around protected areas, including
   forested zones. It is unlikely that subprojects would adversely affect the use or sustainability o f forested



                                                    - 30 -

areas in Cameroon, but there is potential for indirect impact on forestry resources due to the demand
for construction materials. To mitigate this risk, appropriate criteria have been added to the screening
tools to address potential impacts on forestry resources. Moreover, training under the PAPNDP would
focus on boostingawareness o f community forest protection, illegal logging, and poaching.

Pest management. Insome cases subprojects proposed by the program have the potential to introduce
or increase pesticide use into certain areas and villages in Cameroon. The project i s not expected to
promote widespread pesticide use, but it has included appropriate criteria in the screening tools to
address issues o f pesticide use and would require a mini-Pest Management Plan for microactivities
triggeringthis criterion. Duringthe first year of the project, technical assistancewould be provided for
an Integrated PestManagement Framework to address the project's effects on pest management.

Culturalproperty. Cameroon has a rich anddiverse cultural heritage and is home to ancient tribes and
civilizations. The main concern in terms o f cultural property is related to construction work required
for certain small infrastructure projects. To mitigate the risk o f negative impacts on cultural property,
community training and technical service providers would ensure that chance find procedures are
incorporated into civil works contracts and that buffer zones are created to avoid damaging cultural
assets such as traditional or "sacred" forests.

Indigenous people. Because the PAPNDP is a national program focusing mainly on rural areas, it can
be expected to affect ethnic minorities, and particularly those referred to as "pygmies." According to
OD 4.20, an IPDP provides information supplementary to the ESMF and the RPF. An IPDP has been
prepared to ensure that the PAPNDP would respect the dignity, rights, and culture o f Cameroon's
"pygmy" populations and that they benefit from the PAPNDP. The IPDP has been disclosed by the
Government of Cameroon on June 19,2003.

Involuntary resettlement.      Community-driven development experience shows that infrastructure
subprojects-primarily      improvements     to  roads,   irrigation and water       control,  wells   and
schools-sometimes      cause loss o f land or loss o f access to other resources, particularly for new
physical works or changes in the configuration o f existing infrastructure. Land tenure and property
rights are regulated by the national land tenure system, but traditional landtenure systems are inplace
at the community level. Communal land is typically volunteered or chosen by the village elders for
community development. It is unlikely that microinvestments financed by the PAPNDP would result in
involuntary resettlement o f individuals, since communal laws and eaditional practices strive to avoid
this. But to mitigate any involuntary resettlement, an RPF was prepared for planning resettlements
under the PAPNDP in compliance with Bank policies and principles, namely OP 4.12 for Involuntary
Resettlement, and the landtenure policies and regulations o f Cameroon. The RPF would ensure that all
subprojects are screened for potential resettlement and that appropriate steps are taken to compensate
affected persons. The screening tools provided by the ESMF have been designed to address issues o f
resettlement andland acquisition inparallel with the screening criteria developed by the RPF. The RPF
has been disclosed by the Government o f Cameroon on June 19,2003.

Projects in international waterways. Cameroon borders six countries (Central African Republic,
Chad, the Republic o f Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, and Nigeria) and shares a number o f
waterways. This safeguard policy applies to the PAPNDP because subprojects might have an impact
on waterways (small dams, water delivery infrastructure). The notification process took place in
accordance with the requirements o f this policy.




                                                - 31 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:

   Sustainability of institutional arrangements. Because o f weak local institutions, efforts at local
   development could disappear when external donors leave. National institutions lack the capacity and
   resources at the local level to take responsibility for donor-sponsored development efforts and to
   sustain them. The project is designed to strengthen community and commune institutional frameworks
   so that support to local development becomes more sustainable.
   The responsibilities o f the Communal Decision Committees andProvincial Decision Committees would
   be progressively transferred to decentralized authorities. Communal Decision Committees and
   Provincial Decision Committees would disappear by the end of the PNDP. An ongoing study on
   institutional sustainability would more precisely define how these responsibilities would be transferred.

   HIPCJinancial resources. Cameroon is expected to reach its HIPC completion point by June 2004,
   generating considerable savings over the next 20 years, with a cumulative net present value projected to
   reach US$1.5 billion. This funding opportunity, together with donor contributions, would put rural
   development on a sustainable path. The Government has already approved a HIPC contribution of
   FCFA 16.3 billion to cofinance the first phase o f the PNDP.

   FEICOM. The FEICOM was established in 1974 to bring technical and financial assistance to
   decentralized authorities. It was designed to be a major instrument for decentralization in Cameroon.
   FEICOM has already approved a FCFA 2 billion to cofinance communal subprojects and capacity
   buildingactivities at the commune level duringthe first phaseofthe PNDP.

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column of Annex 1):
                    Risk                          Risk Rating                  Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Lack of coordinationbetween PAPNDP                      S          Regionalized technical ministries wouldbe
and national sectoral policies                                     involved indecision committees.
Lack o f coordination between                           M          Commune representativeswill be involved in
communities andcommunes                                            decision committees.
Lack o f interest inPAPNDP activities by                N          The demandfor social infrastructures is very
local populations                                                  high. Butstrong outreach and communication
                                                                   campaigns on PAPNDP activities would be
                                                                   launched throughout targetedregions.
From Components to Outputs
Communities lack resources to cofinance                 M          The financial management capacities of
subprojects                                                        communities would be strengthened.
                                                                   Microfinance institutions would be supported.
Lack o f a safe financial system for                    S          The PAPNDP would use differentways to
channeling funds to beneficiaries                                  transfer financial resources, including local
                                                                   microfinance institutions. The PAPNDP would
                                                                   support microfinance expansion inrural areas.
Lack of competent service providers                     S          Technical feasibility would be consideredwhen
                                                                   subprojects are approved.
Beneficiaries are unwillingto be involved               N          Strong outreach campaigns on participatory
inaparticipatory approach                                          techniques and strengths would be launched in
                                                                   targeted areas.


                                                      - 32 -

Local committees are not elected ina                 M            Maximuminvolvement of communities,
transparent and democratic way                                    encouragement o f discussions.
Overall Risk Rating                                  M



3. PossibleControversial Aspects:



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition

    0   The Borrower has opened a Project Account and the initial contribution of CFAF 60 million has
        been deposited init.

    0   The Borrower has appointed independentauditors, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.


    0    The Borrower has installed a financial management, accounting, and monitoring and evaluation
         system acceptable to IDA.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]


    0    Within six months of the Effective Date, the Borrower shall have remittedto the Association the
         audit report on the FEICOM, and adopted an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the
         channeling o f funds to communes.


    0    Within six months of the Effective Date, the Borrower shall ensure that representativeslisted inthe
         Project Implementation Arre"t6 (Arr&tC 002lPM dated January 9, 2004 portant organisation du
         cadre institutionnel d'ex6cution du PNDP)are designated within the SC.


H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivities arecompleteandreadyforthestart
         of project implementation.
IxI1.b) Not applicable.

[XI 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start o f
       project implementation.
El3. TheProjectImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundtoberealistic andofsatisfactory
       quality.
04. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):



I. Compliancewith Bank Policies
El1.This projectcomplies withallapplicableBankpolicies.


                                                   - 33 -

I?2. Thefollowingexceptionsto Bankpoliciesarerecommendedfor approval. Theprojectcomplieswith
     all other applicable Bank policies.




                                        JosgphBaah-Dwomoh             AliKhadr  '
Team Leader                             Sector ManagedDirector        Country ManagedDirector




                                               - 34 -

-                                   Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                   CAMEROON: Community Development Program Support Project



                                Sector Indicators:                iectorl country reports:       from Goal to Bank Mission)

Strengthening the institutional  0 Percentageo f poor per         0  PRSP surveys.                0 Country remains politically
framework for improved pro-poor    region.                        0 National statistics (INS).      stable.
economic management and          0 Rural GDP per capita.          0 UNDP human development        0 HIPC funds are usedto
service delivery.                0 Percentageo f households         reports.                        satisfy needs insectors key
                                   with access to safe water.     0 National surveys.               to reducing poverty.
                                 0 Rural medical coverage.        0  Rural sector monitoring
                                 0 School enrollment rate in         system reports.
                                   rural areas.




Program Purpose:                Snd-of-Program Indicators:        Vogram reports:                from Purpose to Goal)

Sustainable rural development    0 75% o f targeted               0  Supervision missions.        0 Participatory approach
through community                  communities are organized      0  Midterm and final review.      adoptedby central and local
empowerment and strengthened       and have adopted a local       0 National surveys.               stakeholders.
local govemance.                   development plan.              0  Beneficiary assessments.       Project benefits accruing to a
                                 0 60% o f community-based        0  Reports o f the PRSP.          sufficient number o f
                                   organizations have access to                                     communities.
                                   basic services (water,                                         0 Absence o f major crisis
                                   education, health, transport).                                   (war, drought, epidemics).
                                 0 80% o f rural communes                                         0 External funding sources
                                   show good govemance                                              continue to finance the
                                   performance (criteria in the                                     program.
                                   Project Implementation
                                   Manual).
                                 0 Women and pigmies are
                                   satisfied with the PAPNDP.




Project Development             htcome IImpact                    Voject reports:                :fromObjective to Purpose)
Objective:                      ndicators:

To set up and make operational a 0 Local developmentplans o f     0  Supervision missions.        0  Continued support from the
decentralizedandparticipatory      at least 50% targeted CBOs     0  Midterm and final               Government.
financing mechanismto ensure      within the 38 targeted            evaluations.                    Absence of political or social
community development inrural      communes have been             0 Program monitoring and           crisis in the country or
areas.                             approved.                         evaluation reports.            concernedregions.
                                 0 50% ofthese                    0 Rural Development Sector
                                  community-based                   Monitoring Unit reports.
                                  organizations have fully        0  Sample studies and surveys.
                                  implemented at least one
                                  subproject.
                                 0Communal development



                                                            - 35 -

 plans of at least 75%
 targeted communes have
 been approved.
0 50% o f these communes
 have fully implemented at
  least one subproject.
e 75% of targeted
  community-based
  organizations have benefited
  from training programs.




                         - 36 -

                                  -                                                                                          -
Outputfrom each                   htput Indicators:                  'rojectreports:              rom Outputsto Objective)
Component:

1.Supporting local
development (FADCR)
 0  A matching grants facility
                                                                                                    Willingness o f beneficiaries
    has been set up to support     070% o f subprojects approved     0  Development plans.        0
                                                                                                    to use facilities and services
    ruralcommunity                  for more than six months            Projectmonitoring and
                                                                                                    financed by the project.
    development.                    have been completed.                evaluation reports.
                                                                                                  0 Good collaboration between
 0  Rural communities have         0Time elapsedbetween              0  Accounting and financial
                                                                                                    communes and Decision
    better access to basic          subproject approval and             reports.
                                                                                                    Committees.
    infrastructures and services.   financing is less than 45        0  Field missions.
                                                                                                    Good coordination between
 0  Collective infrastructures are  days.                                                         0
                                                                     0  Extemalaudits.              PNDP activities and sector
    well managedand                0Bymidterm review 45% of
                                                                                                    policies.
    maintained.                     subprojects approved for
                                    more than six months have
                                    been completed.
                                   0By midtermreview at least
                                    50 classrooms, 30 water
I                                   supply infrastructures, and
                                    15 health postshave been
                                    built or rehabilitated and at
                                    least 10 rural road
                                    improvement subprojects
                                    have been completed.
                                   0By end ofthe project, at
                                    least 500 subprojects have
                                    been implemented.
                                   0At least 150classrooms, 150
                                    water supply infrastructures,
                                    and 50 health centers have
                                    been builtor rehabilitated
                                    and at least 30 rural road
                                    improvement subprojects
                                    have been completed.


 2. Supportingthe
 decentralization process
  0  Capacities o f communes are                                                                     Democratic process remains
     strengthened inhuman          0By the midterm review, staff      0  Project monitoring and    0
                                                                                                     functional.
     resources, financial           andor elected authorities o f        evaluation reports.
     management, basic              at least 12 out o f 38            0  Fieldmissions.
     infrastructure                  Communes have benefited
                                                                      0  Extemal audits.
     implementation, and             from training sessions or
                                     sensitization campaigns.
                                   0 By the endof the project,
                                     staff andor elected
                                     authorities o f 100% o f the
                                     targeted Communes in the
                                     Project Area have benefited
                                     from training sessions or
                                     sensitization campaigns.
                                   0 By the end ofthe Project,
                                     decentralization legal texts
                                     have been prepared.
                                   0 At least 50% oftargeted



                                                                - 37 -

                                     communes have a rate of
                                     fiscal covering higher than
                                     50% as compared with the
                                     baseline.
                                  0  At least 50% of targeted
                                     communes have a rate o f
                                     implementation o f their
                                     budget higher than 50% as
                                     comparedwith the baseline.

i. Capacity-buildingat the
oca1level                         0  By the midterm review, loca      0 Project monitoring and   0Committees are constituted
 0 Communities are organized         development plans of at leas       evaluation reports.       in a transparent and
   and have prepared                 15% o f targeted                 0 Field missions.           democratic way.
   development plans on a            community-based                  0 Committees and service
   participatory process.            organizationswithin 38            provider reports.
0  Communities implement             targeted communes have
   their subprojects.                been approved.

0  Priority training needs have   0  By the midtermreview,
   been identified and fulfilled.    communal development
                                     plans o f at least 30% o f the
                                     38 targeted communes have
                                     been approved.
                                  0  Byend of the project, local
                                     development plans o f at leas
                                     50% o f targeted
                                     community-based
                                     organizations within 38
                                     targeted Communes have
                                    been approved.
                                  0  Communal development
                                    plans o f at least 75% o f the
                                    38 targeted communes have
                                    been approved.
                                  0 The implementation ratio o f
                                    training plans establishedby
                                    the PPUs to the benefit o f
                                    community-based
                                    organizations reaches at leas
                                    55%.
                                  0 A properly grounded
                                    decision has been rendered
                                    on at least 95% o f
                                    subprojects submitted to
                                    Communal and Provincial
                                    Decision Committees.
                                  0 70% o f infrastructures
                                    camedout under the
                                    subprojects are maintained
                                    and operational.
.Supportingproject
ianagementand
oordination, monitoring           0 By the end o f the Project, at    0Fieldmissions.
nd evaluation, and                  least 80% o f the reports to      0Project monitoring and
ommunication                        be prepared by N C U under         evaluation reports.

0  Efficient staff is inplace to    the Project Monitoring and        0Extemal audits.
   manage the project.              Evaluation Manual have            0Investigations near
                                   been timely issued.
0  Project data are regularly                                          recipients.
                                  B 70% o f reports produced    by



                                                                - 38 -

disseminatedto all
                                the communities are rated
stakeholders.
Beneficiaries are efficiently   satisfactory.
                                At least 80% ofcontracts
involved inproject            0
                                signed by NCU have been
monitoring and evaluation.
                                executedontime.




                                                        -39 -

'roject Components I            Inputs: (budgetfor each   Jrojectreports:              From Components to
iub-components:                 somponent)                                             Iutputs)
.Supportinglocal                US$ 53.07 million
levelopment (FADCR)              IDA: US$ I O million       0  Disbursement reports;    0 Communities have resources
                                                            0  Supervision missions;      to cofinance subprojects.

                                                            0  Mid-tenn and final       0 A safe financial system
                                                               evaluations;               exists to bring funds to

                                                            0  Technical reviews and      beneficiaries.
                                                               audits.
.Supportingthe
lecentralizationprocess         US$ 5.56 million           IS above                     0 Continued willingness from

,I. Support to finalization of  [DA:US$ 0.86 million                                      the Government to

:gulatory framework                                                                       strengthen communes.
                                                                                        0 Service providers are

.2.Capacity building for                                                                  available and competent.

ommunes                                                                                 0 Local governments are
                                                                                          respected and elected

.3Sensitization on                                                                        transparently.

.ecentralization

  Capacity-building at the      US$ 10.22 million          is above                     0 Service providers are
oca1level                       [DAUS$ 3.59 million                                       available and competent.
 .1. Support for preparahon o f                                                         0 Elected committees are

.DP/CDP, subprojects                                                                      respected and competent.


 .2. Specific trainings and
iutreach campaigns for
ommunities


1.Supportingproject
nanagementand                   US$ 13.97million           is above                     0 Full collaboration of all
toordination,monitoring         [DAUS$ 5.55 million                                       relevant implementing

md evaluation, and                                                                        agencies.
                                                                                          Funding is secured.
:ommunication                                                                           0
                                                                                        0 Willingness o f beneficiaries
                                                                                          to be involved in
1.1. Management and                                                                       participatory monitoring and
:oordination                                                                               evaluation.

1.2. Project monitoring and
:valuation

1.3.Communication




                                                       -40-

-41-

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                CAMEROON:Community Development ProgramSupport Project

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$53.07 million
                      -
   IDA Credit: US$10 million

   Supportinglocaldevelopment

   Objective:
   The Community Development Program Support Project (PAPNDP) would channel grants to rural
   community-based organizations (CBOs with legal status) and rural communes to cofinance their
   proposed subprojects to reduce poverty by addressing their priority needs.

   Mechanisms:
  0     Community subprojects. Base communities are made up of people living inone or several villages,
        districts, hamlets, or campments sharing use o f the space and natural resources around the
        settlements. With technical assistance provided by the project (supported by component 3), each
        community would conduct a participatory assessment o f their needs and prepare a local
        development plan to spell out their priorities. Decentralized technical ministries (health, education,
        transport, etc) and communal authorities would be involved in the planningprocess to ensure that
        local developments are consistent with national standards and policies and with planned activities
        andinfrastructures inthe commune. The local development plans would thenbe sent to Communal
        Decision Committees (CDC), comprised o f representatives from decentralized technical ministries,
        rural communes, community-based organizations, and non governmental organizations (NGOs).
        The CDC would look at the consistency of local development plans with national policies. After the
        CDC approves the local development plan, community-based organizations would then prepare
        subprojects' requests. CBOs might contract service providers to prepare all technical documents
        related to their requests, and these costs would be considered part o f the subproject's costs. The
        subproject's technical documentation would be sent to the Communal Decision Committee for
        approval basedonthe eligibility criteria (see below).
  0     Communal subprojects.       The project would provide technical assistance to rural communes
        (supported by component 3) to prepare communal development plans. Community-based
        organizations would be closely involved in this process. Communal development plans would
        address intervillage issues and specific communal needs rather than combining several local
        development plans. The communal development plans would then be sent for approval to a
        Provincial Decision Committee, comprised o f representatives from decentralized technical
        ministries, communes, the National Assembly, and NGOs. The Provincial Decision Committee
        would be responsible for coordinating PAPNDP activities in the province. After the communal
        development plan has been approved, communes would prepare and submit subproject proposals,
        and the Provincial Decision Committee would be responsible for reviewing and approving them,
        according to specific eligibility criteria (see below). The decision committee would check the
        technical and financial feasibility o f the subproject and its consistency with national standards and
        social andenvironmental screening.

   Community-based organizations and communes may receive grants for any public subproject they
   deem important as long as they meet the following eligibility criteria:
  0     Beneficiaries are eligible and have the legal status to implement and maintain the subproject.


                                                     -42-

        The subproject is consistent with the local development plan or communal development plan.
        The subproject is not included inthe negative list contained inthe Project ImplementationManual.
        Beneficiaries contribute an agreed share o f the value o f the investment, as detailed in the Project
        Implementation Manual (0-1 5%).
        The subproject's total cost is less than FCFA 15 million for a community subproject and FCFA 75
        million for a communal subproject.
        There is no other source o f financing proposing to finance the same activities (excluding
        cofinancing).
        The subproject is consistent with national standards.
        The subproject is consistent with PAPNDP environmental andsocial safeguard policies.
        A specific subproject management committee has beenestablished, and adequate arrangements are
        inplace for financing maintenance and other incremental recurrent costs relatedto the subproject
        (human and financial resources).

   Communes will have ownership o f all infrastructure, whether the subproject has been requested by a
   community or not. When a communal subproject has been approved, the Provincial Project Unit(PPU)
   would transfer a grant to an account opened by the commune. For a community-based organization
    subproject, the commune would sign an agreement with the CBO to delegate implementation and
   management responsibilities. The community-based organization and the commune would open ajoint
    account to receive the grant.

   Eligible subprojects:
    Subprojects may be:
  0     Collective social investments, including schools, classrooms, teacher training, literacy, health
        posts, HIV/AIDS prevention centers, health personnel training, rural roads and bridges, rural
        electricity, wells, latrines, and landtenure initiatives.
  0     Public marketing infrastructures such as markets, storage, and slaughterhouses.
  0     Natural resource management activities for soil erosion control, soil fertility control, and
        community forest management.
  0     Rural finance subprojects to strengthen microfinance institutions.

    Resources would be allocated to beneficiaries on a first-come, first-serve basis to encourage dynamic
    communities and communes and to address as many basic needs as possible.

   FEICOM:
    The Fonds Sp&cial dzquipement et d'lnteuvention Intercommunale (FEICOM) was established in
    1974 to bring technical and financial assistance to decentralized authorities. It was designed to be a
    major instrument for decentralization in Cameroon. FEICOM will participate inthe implementation o f
    PAPNDP in several ways: (i)FEICOM would mobilize Centimes Additionnels Communaux as
    contributions for communes to cofinance subprojects, (ii)    FEICOMwould contribute to the monitoring
    o f commmunal subprojects implementation, and (iii)FEICOM would cofinance the PAPNDP as a
    donor (FCFA 1.7 billion). FEICOM is currently being audited, and, depending on the results, its
    involvement inthe Community Development Program (PNDP) might be more intense.

    Cost andfinancing:
    An IDA Credit (US$lO million) would cofinance subprojects inthe targeted rural communes.

Project Component 2 US$5.56 million
                      -
    IDA Credit: US$0.86 million


                                                     - 43 -

Supporting the decentralization process

 Objective:
This component aims to strengthen local govemance to give accountable decentralized authorities the
legal authority and human and financial resources needed for local development. It includes three
subcomponents.



Subcomponent 2.1 Support to the finalization of the legal and regulatory framework for local
governance:
Although decentralization is well under way, its agenda is still incomplete. Neither local rights and
responsibilities, nor the means to fulfill them, are fully defined. The PAPNDP would support studies
and technical and advisory services to support the finalization o f the preparation o f legal and regulatory
framework for local govemance in particular regarding fiscal decentralization, including on
mechanisms to transfer funds to municipalities. It may include support for a mechanism, such as the
FEICOM, to channel funds to municipalities. The current audit would propose recommendations that
mightbe implementedwith the PAPNDP's support.

Subcomponent 2.2 Capacity-buildingfor communes
Elected authorities are in place, but their capacity varies widely. Procedures for budget allocation,
budget release, and financial management are not always clear or respected, human resources are
lacking, elected officials and commune staff are not always aware o f their roles and responsibilities,
and logistical support (information technology and transportation) at the commune level is very weak in
most cases. A "commune graduation program" would be developed to assess the capacity and
performance o f communes. Each commune would be assessed according to criteria determined in a
participatory manner (involving mayors, administrative services, civil society, and donors). These
criteria would assess (i) poverty in the commune and (ii) govemance. Based on this assessment,
                                                            local
specific capacity-building activities would be designed for each commune, and regular capacity
assessments would produce progress reports. Communes would gradually buildup their capacity and
take on more responsibilities, including the temporary Communal Decision Committee responsibilities,
with the ultimate goal o fhandling local development withno support from the PAPNDP.
The project would finance:
 i.Studiestoassesscommunes'capacitiesanddevelopcapacity-buildingprograms.
 ii.Training (communal accounting, decentralization, conflict resolution, local development ) for
    elected decentralized authorities and commune staff.
...
111.Accounting agents to be progressively taken charge by communes.
iv. Equipment, mainly information technology, to allow adequate financial management and
    monitoring and evaluation.

Subcomponent 2.3 Sensitization on decentralization
The project would support the MINATD outreach and communication campaigns for administrative
decentralization. It would finance (i)workshops on decentralization, (ii)  trainings, and (iii) trips in
                                                                                               field
Cameroon and inother countries where decentralization is more advanced.

Cost andjhancing:
IDA Credit would support subcomponent 2.1. The IDA would also finance capacity-building for
communes (activities (i)(ii)(iii),and (v) of subcompoent 2.2.) in the targeted rural communes and



                                               - 44 -

   contribute to activities (i), and (iii)f subcomponent 2.3.
                                (ii), o

Project Component3 US$ 10.22 million
                       -
   IDA Credit: US3.59 million

   Capacity-buildingat the locallevel

   Objective:
   This component aims to strengthen and empower communities to get involved in decisionmaking and
   have an active role inlocal development. It includes two subcomponents.

   Subcomponent 3.1. Support for preparation of local and communal development plans,
   subprojects, and implementation
   The approach would be as flexible as possible dependingon the regional context, but the participatory
   approach would be systematically used.

   Preparation of development plans and subprojects:
  0     Community level.      NGOs or technical agents would assist communities in (i)defining their
        members, territory, assets, and common interests; (ii)assessing their issues and needs; (iii)
        perceiving their priorities; and (iv) drafting their local development plans. A local development
        plan would include (i)    background with a map and the current situation, (ii) priority issues, (iii)
        solutions and their impacts, (iv) related estimated costs, (v) programming, and (vi) monitoring and
        evaluation arrangements. Decentralized technical services and communal authorities would always
        be involved in planning to ensure consistency with communal activities and national policies. The
        plan would have to be approved by the whole community. Underprivileged groups would be
        specifically targeted to involve them in the participatory process. Each community would
        democratically elect representatives to the Communal Decision Committee. A community-based
        organization would then be responsible for preparing subproject technical documents and might
        contract as needed. The PAPNDP would cover costs under the first component, considering them
        part o f the subprojects' global costs.
  0     Commune level.       Service providers would assist rural communes in preparing a communal
        development plan. Each communal development plan would be prepared ina participatory manner,
        involving community-based organizations, decentralized technical services, and traditional
        authorities. Communal development plans would address intervillage issues and specific communal
        needs rather than combining several local development plans. Communal development plans would
        include (i)  background with a map and the current situation, (ii) issues, (iii)
                                                                            priority          solutions and
        their impacts, (iv) related estimated costs, (v) programming, and (vi) monitoring and evaluation
        arrangements. The commune would then be responsible for implementing the plan and for
        preparingsubproject technical documentation.

   Support to subproject implementation:
   NGOs or technical agents would be contracted to strengthen the beneficiaries' capacity to implement
   subprojects by providingtraining incommunity-based procurement, financial management, and project
   management.
   The Communal Decision Committees and Provincial Decision Committees would be strengthened to
   enable them to appraise and approve subprojects, in accordance with PAPNDP principles. The project
   would support (i)part o f their operating costs (including regular field missions to supervise
   implementation o f approved subprojects) and (ii)training in such areas as local development,
   Cameroonian sector policies, strategic planning, safeguard policies, andparticipatory monitoring.


                                                    - 45 -

   Subcomponent 3.Z.Specific training and outreach campaigns to improve communities' livelihoods
    and reducepoverty
    While assisting communities in the participatory planning process, facilitators would be able to assess
    community capacities and design specific training and outreach programs to be implemented by
    specialists contracted by the project. After each training or outreach campaign, beneficiaries would be
    surveyed to determine quality and impact. Themes addressed by trainings and outreach campaigns
    would include literacy, HIV/AIDS prevention, hygiene, nutrition, community-based integrated
    environmental management, community forestry, microcredit and savings, and safeguard issues.
    Specific attention would be given to marginalizedgroups, especially indigenous people, as described in
    the Indigenous People Development Plan.

    Cost andflnancing:
   An IDA Credit (US$3.59 million) would contribute to subcomponents 3.1 and 3.2 inthe targeted rural
   communes.

Project Component 4 US$13.97 million
                      -
   IDA Credit: US$5.55 million

    Supporting     project   management       and   coordination,     monitoring   and evaluation,      and
    communication

    Objective:
    This component aims to allow all actors of the project and the rural and local development sector in
    general to share information and tools. This component includes three subcomponents.

   Subcomponent 4.1 Management and coordination
    This subcomponent would finance project implementation, project coordination, and financial
   management. Project implementation includes (i)operating costs o f the National Coordination Unit
    (NCU) and the five Provincial Project Units (PPUs), (ii)   equipment and vehicles, (iii)
                                                                                           rehabilitation of
    office space, and (iv) trainings to strengthen PAPNDP's management entities (procurement, financial
   management, disbursement, monitoring and evaluation). Project coordination includes specific
    workshops and meetings aimed at better coordination among ministries, a better liaison with donors,
    and better national communication. Financial management includes consultant services for
   procurement, audits (financial and technical), and accounting, as needed.

   Subcomponent 4.2 Project monitoring and evaluation.
    The project monitoring and evaluation subcomponent is designed to (i)ensure sound management o f
   the project through daily technical and financial monitoring o f its activities; (ii)enforce strategic,
   technical, and operational links between the program and sector strategies, other development programs
    and projects, and all stakeholders involved (particularly beneficiaries); and (iii)optimize the
   management of information generated and used by project management units. Stakeholders at every
    level would be involved ingathering, processing, analyzing, storing, and disseminating the information
   required for transparent and efficient decisionmalung, and for sound financial andtechnical monitoring
   of activities. The subcomponent would rely on (i) monitoring and evaluation system to follow
                                                            a
   activities infinancial and technical terms and (ii)a knowledge management system for decisionmakers.

    The monitoring and evaluation system:




                                                   - 46 -

The monitoring and evaluation system of the PAPNDP is critical for managing the program's large
volume o f information-the     subproject cycle, the PPUs, community performance-and        for aggregating
information used to evaluate the program's impact. The management information system would have
three modules. The PPUs would have a streamlined version o f the systemwith information neededfrom
the NCU. PPUs would gather information from local beneficiaries and stakeholders and dissemination
lessons andbest practices to beneficiaries, thus ensuring effective participatory evaluationandprogram
steering. The database would be synchronized each month among the provincial and central levels. As
program coverage progresses,the systemwould be set up inthe concerned province.

Accounting and Jinancial monitoring.            During preparation of the project, a consulting firm
specializing infinancial and accounting systems was recruited to (i)     develop the software and install it
inthe NCU and PPUs, (ii) staff, and (iii) six months of technical assistanceto the NCU
                              train                 provide
and PPUs. Reports preparedinthe Financial MonitoringReport format would be issued quarterly. The
project would conduct annual financial audits o f the N C U and PPUs.

Activity monitoring and evaluation. A system has been developed to monitor and evaluate the
project's performance and impacts. This monitoring and evaluation system would provide information
to (i) set clear and realistic objectives for each activity, (ii) measure gaps between targets and actual
results to identify problems with implementation, (iii)propose options and arrangements to address
those issues, and (iv) better inform the stakeholders through periodic reporting (stakeholders' terms of
reference, status o f activities and problems encountered; organizational chart o f activities with
responsibilities, financial status o f the project, value o f key impact and performance indicators, value
o f trigger indicators). Reports and performance charts would create an interface with the accounting
and financial system so that financial disbursements and commitments could be compared to physical
status. Monitoring and evaluation o f activities financed under component 1 (subprojects) would benefit
from specific tools and procedures. The project's impact would be evaluated (i)once a year, by a
census o f a statistically representative sample o f beneficiaries; (ii)once a year, through an
environmental assessment; and (iii)every two years, through an appraisal by beneficiaries. The
PAPNDP would also continually look at participatory appraisal reports indicating levels o f community
satisfaction with PAPNDP and subproject implementation. Global impact information would come
from the Poverty Monitoring System, withthe Cameron Household Survey I1(ECAM-11) providingthe
baseline. A rural sector monitoring and evaluation system (Obsewatoire du Secteur Rural) would also
be developed through the PAPNDP.

Development operations and process monitoring. This module would be based on a Geographical
Information System to monitor (i)existing or planned infrastructure, services, and development
operations in affected departments; (ii)   sector policies; and (iii)
                                                                    expansion o f the program's geographic
scope (as measured on a predetermined scale ranging from "nothing happened" to "community fully
empowered, with strong local government involvement"). This tool would be used to update the
Provincial Development Frameworks. The Geographical Information System would use maps scanned
from archives or satellite photographs as backgroundto display the following layers:
0    Existingor plannedinfrastructure: schools, health centers, water points, markets, slaughterhouses,
     veterinary services, drainage facilities, socioeducational outreach centers, roads, andvillage stores.
0    Development operations under way that specify objectives, sectors, themes, budgets, effectiveness,
     closing dates, financing sources, and contacts.
0    Geographical scope o f the program, showing progress in a given area according to a predefined
     process scale.

National strategies and policies for poverty reduction, rural development, water management, health,


                                                   -47-

education, transport, and urban planning would also be monitored with this module, but without
geographic interface. To be successfully implemented, the system would have numerous links to other
monitoring systems (sector monitoring or development program monitoring), especially monitoring
systems for the rural sector.

Knowledge management in theprogram. The program's local dimension highlightsthe needfor sound
knowledge management procedures during implementation to ensure efficient information circulation
among stakeholders. "Information" includes (i)accounting and financial reports, (ii)     technical status
reports and related documentation (financing request forms), (iii)contact lists, (iv) communication
supports (brochures, flyers), (v) technical support documents and publications (books, studies, maps),
andso forth. A simple implementation manual describing knowledge managementprocedureswould be
written and would include a website with content that would dependon the target audience:
a. General public: an overview o f Cameroon's rural sector and present the program and its
    achievements.
b. Project's financial partners: technical and financial status reports, with direct links to program
    performance and impact indicators.
c. Project's technical partners: experience-sharing tools, including (i)an archive o f technical
    documents by sector (strategies, studies), (ii)a forum, and (iii)a calendar o f project
    implementationevents (commencement of studies, planning and validationworkshops).

Subcomponent 4.3 Communication
This subcomponent would focus on (i)     ensuring circulation o f strategic information in the PAPNDP;
(ii)ensuring circulation of technical and financial information to beneficiaries, partners, and experts;
(iii)
    ensuring communicationwith the public; and (iv) supporting the secondand the third component.
The communication plan would rely on (i)      direct communication with beneficiaries (books, picture,
movies), (ii)the support o f administrative and local authorities, and (iii)mass communication
(television, radio, Internet).

Cost andjnancing:
An IDA credit would partially finance subcomponent 4.1 for the N C Uandthree PPUs. The IDA would
also support subcomponent 4.2 by financing (i)      financial and technical audits, (ii) workshops and
technical advisory services for census and beneficiaries assessments to monitor impacts o f the project,
(iii)technical advisory services to monitor implementation of the Environmental and Social
Management Framework, the Resettlement Policy Framework, and the Indigenous People Development
Plan. IDA Credit would then finance technical services and workshops to support the implementation
of the PAPNDP communication strategy (subcomponent 4.3).




                                               - 48 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                 CAMEROON: Community Development Program Support Project




                                                                                                                                                  53.07
                                                                                                                                                    5.56
                                                                                                                                                  10.22
Project Management andMonitoring                                                                                                                  12.97
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                                                               81.82
Physical Contingencies                                                                                                                              0.20
Price Contingencies                                                                                                                                 0.80
                                         Total Project Costs1                                     73.32                    9.50                   82.82
                                 Total Financing Required                                         73.32                    9.50                   82.82




                                                                                                                                                        0.05
Vehicles and Equipment                                                                                                                                  3.27
ConsultantServices, Audit and Studies                                                                                                                  10.63
Training                                                                                                                                                6.33
Grants for Sub-projects                                                                                                                                53.07
Operating Costs                                                                                                                                         7.73
PPF                                                                                                                                                     1.74
                                                       Total ProjectCosts1                          73.32                      9.50                    82.82
                                               Total FinancingRequired                              73.32                      9.50                    82.82


  1
   Identifiable taxes andduties are 3.88 (US$m)andthe total project cost, net of taxes, is 78.94 (USSni). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 25.33% of
  total project cost netof taxes.




                                                                  - 49 -

                                            Annex 4
        CAMEROON: Community Development Program Support Project


The PAPNDPdoes not lend itself to cost-benefit analysis because:
o  All investments would be demand-driven, and their nature can not be knownbeforehand.
o  All eligible subprojects would be nonproductive.
o  The economic benefits o f capacity-building are difficult to quantify.
Economic criteria are included in the Project Implementation Manual to appraise the economic
dimension o f subprojects.




                                             - 50 -

                              Annex 5: Financial Summary
               CAMEROON: Community Development Program Support Project
                                    Years Ending
                                        2008
                                               IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD
                        IYear1 I Year2    I  Year3   IYear4  I Year5  IYear6  IYear 7
Total Financing
Required
 ProjectCosts
  Investment Costs         10.0      17.7        20.5    26.3      0.0     0.0    0.0
 Recurrent Costs            1.4       2.3         2.3     2.3      0.0     0.0    0.0
                                                                                  j~
Total Project Costs        11.4      20.0        22.8    28.6      0.0     0.0    0.0
Total Financing            11.4      20.0        22.8    28.6      0.0     0.0    0.0

Financing
   IBRDllDA                 4.4       3.7         5.2     6.7      0.0    0.0
   Government               1.6       1.2         1.5     2.0      0.0    0.0
       Central              0.0       0.0         0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0
       Provincial           0.0       0.0         0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0
   Co-financiersFrench      0.0       7.0         8.0    10.0      0.0    0.0
Cooperation :C2D
Beneficiaries               0.1       0.2         0.3     0.4      0.0    0.0
Government-PPTE             4.5       7.1         7.0     8.6      0.0    0.0
FEICOM                      0.8       0.8         0.8     0.9      0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Project Financing    11.4      20.0        22.8    28.6      0.0    0.0
Mainassumptions:




                                         - 51 -

                             Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
            CAMEROON: Community Development ProgramSupport Project

Procurement
GENERAL


   1. A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was carried out in Cameroun in 2000 by a
   national committee representing all the sectors and a team from The World Bank. It found that the
   national procurement system needed a major reform as the procedures for procurement o f works,
   goods, and services were weak in several areas. The Government, with the Bank assistance, started to
   implement the recommended reforms of which the following actions have already been accomplished
   (a) preparation of a new procurement code, (b) signature o f the decree regarding the Commisson des
   MarchCs, (c) audit o f public procurement for 2000 and 2001 by an intemational auditor, (d)
   establishment of specialized procurement commissions and (e) appointment o f independent observers.
   Cameroun's procurement laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA Guidelines. N o special
   exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit since Cameroon's procurement
   practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions inlocal regulations.

Guidelines

   2. Goods and works financed by IDA shall be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines
   under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits ("The Guidelines", January 1995, revisedinJanuary and August
   1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD), and the
   Standard Evaluation Report will be used for ICB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised
   locally would be carried out in accordance with Cameroon's procurement laws and regulations, which
   are acceptable to IDA provided that they assure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad
   consistency with the key objectives o f the Bank Guidelines. Inthe absence o f national standardbidding
   documents, the Bank's SBD will be used for NCB, with appropriate modifications relating to
   provisions for "advertising and notification", "currencies o f bid and payment", "settlement of
   disputes", deletion o f the domestic preference provision. This should ensure that: (i)methods used to
   evaluate bids and award contracts are known to all bidders and not applied arbitrarily; (ii)      all bidders
   have adequate response time (four weeks) to prepare and submit bids; (iii)bid evaluation and bidder
   qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iv) no preference margin i s granted to
   domestic manufacturers; (v) eligible firms are not excluded from participation; (vi) awards are made to
   the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with pre-determined and transparent methods; (vii) bid
   evaluation reports clearly state the reasons for the rejection o f any non-responsive bid; (viii) prior to the
   issuance of first bidding invitation, draft standard bidding documents, prepared as annexes to the
   Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual, are submittedto IDA for review.

   3.  Contracts for consultant services financedby IDA funds will be awarded inaccordance withWorld
   Bank Guidelines for the Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January
   1997, revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002). The Standard Request for Proposal
   (SWP), as developed by the Bank, will be used for the appointment o f consultants. Simplified
  contracts will be used for short-term assignments, i.e., those not exceeding six months, executed by
  firms or individual consultants. Models o f such contracts can be found in the SRFP. For evaluation
  purposes, the Sample Form o f Evaluation Report for the Selection o f Consultants shall be used
  (October 1999).



                                                    - 52 -

   4. Procurement of small works, goods and services for community-based micro-projects financed by
   the matching grant will be carried out in accordance with paragraph 3.15 o f the Guidelines
   (Community Participation in Procurement) and with the Bank's Guidelines for Simplified Procurement
   and Disbursementfor Community-Based Investments (February 1998) and the Project Implementation
   Manual (PIM).These will be detailed the PIM.

Advertising

   5. A draft General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared by the borrower and submitted to
   IDA for publication in the UnitedNations Development Business online (UNDB online) and in the
   Development Gateway Market (dg Market) following Board Approval, to announce major consulting
   assignments andany ICB. Inthe case o fNCB, a GPN will be published inthe national press or official
   gazette. The GPN shall be prepared prior to negotiations and published after Board Approval. It shall
   include all contracts under ICB and all large consulting contracts (Le., those estimated to cost
   $100,000 or more). In addition, a specific procurement notice (SPN) is required for all goods and
   works to be procuredunder ICB, and an Expression o f Interest (EOI) for all consulting services valued
   inexcessofUS$ 100,000.

Procurement Capacity Assessment

   6. A procurement capacity assessment was carried out during the appraisal mission and completed in
   November 2003. It was found that the first project preparation procurement activities were carried out
   by the National Coordination Unit (NCU) (Cellule de Coordination Nationale) which had some
   experienced staff but had not yet completed the recruitment o f its Procurement Specialist. Therefore,
   the recommendations made inthe action planto strengthenthe procurement capacities and the possible
   risks linked to it include: (i) of a Procurement Specialist at the NCU, (ii) space and the
                                 hiring                                              office
   necessary equipment to the procurement specialist, (iii)   procurement trainings to the procurement
   specialist and the other N C U staff, (iv) preparation o f a procurement plan to be discussed during
   negotiations, (v) establishment o f a procurement planning and contract management system integrated
   inthe computerized Financial management system to be installedat the national coordinationunit and
   regional units (PPUs) in order to ensure the follow-up o f contracts funds disbursement, (vi) technical
   assistancethrough short-term consultants as necessary, (vii) a clear development o f procurement rules
   and methods in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM), and (viii) annual technical and financial
   audits specific to procurement. By December 15, 2003, the Procurement Specialist's recruitment was
   completed and he was already on board.




                                                 - 53 -

Schedule of actions to be carried out

   I
   Actions to be undertaken                              Dates                   Responsible Institution
   1. Finalization of the recruitment of the             December 2003           Government o f Cameroun
   IProcurement SDecialist at the N C U                  I                       I                                I
   2. Equipement and office space for the procurement December 2003              National CoordinationUnit
   specialist
   3,   Participation    in procurement        training  As needed during        National CoordinationUnit
   workshops at the Regional procurement centers in project's life
   the region (i.e. Dakar, Senegal);
   4. Preparation of a procurement plan and a            December 2003           National    Coordination Unit
   regular updating o f such plan to reduce the risk o f                         (NCU)
   the extension of project duration
   5. Establishment o f a procurement planning and Before                        National Coordination Unit and
   contract management system integrated in the          effectiveness           Consultants in charge o f the
   computerized Financial management system to be                                installation o f the integrated
   installed at the National Coordination Unit and                               system
   Regional Coordination Unit inorder to ensure the
   follow-up o f contracts funds disbursement and
   aggregate amounts
   6. Short-term technical assistanceinprocurement       As needed during        National    Coordination Unit
   by consultants as necessary                           project's life          (NW
   7. Clear development o f procurement rules and        December 2003           National    Coordination     Unit
   methods in the Project Implementation Manual                                  (NCU)     and Consultants     in
   (PIMI                                                                         charge o f the PIM
   8. Annual technical and financial audits specific     At least twice a        World      Bank      teams   and
   to procurement                                        year          during    extemal Auditors
                                                         project's life



Procurement ImplementationArrangements

   7. At the national level, the bulk o f procurement for vehicles, equipment, construction or
   rehabilitation works for offices, consulting services, studies and training would be managed by the
   "Commission SpCciale de Passation des Marches" created by Arret6 No. 121/CAB/PM o f December
   2003 o f the Prime Minister, in collaboration with the National Coordination Unit (NCU) through the
   Procurement Specialist it will be staffed with. He will be incharge o f the preparation o f all the bidding
   documents (ICB, NCB and shopping), the requests for proposals, their submission to IDA for no
   objection before their publication. The "Commission SpCciale de Passation des MarchCs" staffed with
   the Procurement Specialist will make the evaluation o f the bids and the proposals and seek the no
   objection o f IDA before making any award, when appropriate. The N C U would use consultants as
   necessaryto carry out specific tasks inprocurement. As far as the Community level is concerned, since
   there will only be subprojects to be financed, these activities will be carried out by the Communities
   which will be trained in Community-Based Procurement. The Project Implementation Manual (PIM)
   will develop a section entirely dedicated to Community-Based Procurement with all the necessary
   elements for the use o f communities. The recruitment o f all positions in the N C U and PPU would be
   acceptable to IDA prior to project implementationand during the life o fthe project.



                                                   - 54 -

    8. Documentsrelatedto procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the
   Borrower for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. The N C Uwould be
   requiredto prepare a computer-based system to monitor the signed contracts inorder not to exceedthe
   approved amount during the life of project implementation.

ProcurementMethods

CivilWorks

   9. The project includes no major civil works. There will only be small works for the rehabilitation o f
   the NCU's office and the offices of the five PPUs to be financed by IDA. Each rehabilitation contract
   estimated to cost US$200,000 or less in value will be procured through NCB in accordance with
   national procedures acceptable to IDA.

   10. The remaining procurement consists of small works to be carried out under community-based
   micro-projects. Given the size, amount and demand-driven nature o f community-based works, these
   contracts will be govemed, when appropriate, by the Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and
   Disbursement for Community-Based Investments (February               1998), detailed in the Project
   Implementation Manual (PIM). Small works, as part o f grants for community-based micro-projects,
   will consist mainly of small community social infrastructures such as classrooms, rural health posts,
   youth facilities, community meeting facilities, small dams and dikes etc.       These expenditures are
   estimated to cost US$ 125,000 or less per subproject for a commune and US$50,000 for a community.
   They may be procured under the shopping procedure. Under this procedure, lump-sum, fixed-price
   contracts are awarded on the basis o f quotations solicited in writing from at least three qualified
   domestic contractors. The invitation shall include a detailed description o f the works, including basic
   specifications, the required completion date, a basic form o f agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant
   drawings where applicable. Quotations should be opened at the same time and to the extent possible in
   the presence o f community members. The awards will be made to the contractors offering the lowest
   price quotes for the required work, and having the experience and resources to complete the contract
   successfully.

Goods

   11. Computers, office equipment, materials and furniture, locally available at reasonable prices and
   valued at less than US$ 500,000 per contract, will be procured in accordance with NCB procedures
   acceptable to IDA. Procurement o f vehicles, motorcycles and equipment costing less than US$500,000
   per contract, will be carried out through NCB. Goods that cannot be grouped into bid packages o f
   US$50,000 or more may be procured through national or intemational shopping according to
   procedures acceptable to IDA, or through the UNDP Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
   (IAPSO). Goods under the community-based sub-projects will be procured under the simplified
   Procurement Procedures detailed in the PIM. After soliciting bids in writing from at least three
   qualified suppliers, the Borrower would award the contract on the basis o f an evaluation o f the bids
   received in writing from such qualified suppliers. The award will be made to the supplier with the
   lowest price quote for the required goods, and with the experience and resources to execute the contract
   successfully.

   12. IDA Reviews. IDA-financed contracts for amounts equivalent to the threshold value o f US$
   500,000 or more for goods and US$ 1,000,000 for works and the first three contracts for works and
  the first three contracts for goods awarded under National Competitive Biddingwill be subject to IDA'S


                                                  - 55 -

  prior reviewprocedures inaccordance with Appendix 1of the Guidelines.

  13. Community-BasedProcurement. The project will finance community-based sub-projects, for an
  estimated total o f US$53.07 million equivalent, o f which IDA will finance US$lO.O million. The
  sub-projects will comprise such things as small social infrastructures, classrooms, rural health posts,
  IEC-related activities and materials, minor repairs or works, capacity-building etc. N o subproject grant
  shall be in excess o f US$50,000 for a community subproject and US$125,000 for a communal
  subproject. Fundingfor these activities will be inthe form of grants. Communities will be required to
  contribute on agreed percentage o f the total budget in labor, in kind or in cash. The methods of
  procurement for sub-projects, according to Section D o f the Bank's Guidelines for Simplified
  Procurement andDisbursementfor Community-Based Investments (February 1998) are :


  0    Local Shopping for Goods
  0    Local Shopping for Works
  0    Local Biddingfor goods and works
  0    Direct Contracting/Off the shelf purchases

  See Project ImplementationManual for more details.

  14. Financing o f activities will depend on applications received from communities.         Due to their
  demand-driven nature, it is not possible to predetermine the exact mix o f goods, small works, and
  services to be procured in connection with these activities. Therefore, the types o f activities to be
  financed andtheir procurement details will depend on the needs identifiedby communities. A negative
  list o f activities which can not be financed under the project have been clearly developped in the PIM.
  Procurement o f items for the implementation o f sub-projects would be carried out in accordance with
  simplifiedprocurement procedures referred to the Project Implementation Manual. The Manual will
  describe procedures and tools in a special chapter based on the Bank's Guidelines for Simplified
  Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments (February 1998). The N C U and
  the PPUs will be responsible for ensuring compliance with these guidelines, and ex-post reviews of
  random sub-projects will be conducted periodically by the Bank and independenttechnical auditors.

  15.             The N C U and the PPUs will maintain a tracking system to follow-up disbursement against the
  contracts signedunder the project inorder to ensure that there is no overpayment.

ConsultantsServices, Audits and Studies

  16. IDA financing for consulting services, audits, studies, and training would apply to (i)   specialized
  studies, supervision, project implementation and monitoring, Management Information System,
  financial management support, financial audits; and (ii)  consultancies on technical matters and training,
  and skills development (participatory approaches), capacity-building for community development,
  empowerment and organization, and IEC campaigns. Consultants financed by IDA, totaling US$ 3.29
  million, would be hired inaccordancewith the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
  Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997, January 1999 and
  May 2002).

  17. Quality- and Cost-BasedSelection (QCBS). All consulting service contracts costing US$lOO,OOO
  equivalent or more for firms would be awarded through the Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS)
  method. To ensure that priority is given to the identification o f suitable and qualified national
  consultants, short lists for contracts under US$lOO,OOO equivalent may be comprised entirely of


                                                  - 56 -

national consultants (inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines),
provided that a sufficient number o f qualified individuals or firms (at least three) are available.
However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they shall not be excluded from consideration. The
NCU will ensure wide dissemination of expressions of interest in order to gather proposals from
consultants. Based on agreed upon criteria, the NCU will maintain and update regularly a list o f
consultants to be usedto establish short lists.

18. Least Cost Selection (LCS) will be the most appropriate method used for financial and technical
audits estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO.
19. Selection Based on Consultant Qualifzcations (CQ). Consultants for small studies, engineering
designs and supervision, monitoring and evaluation, and short term assignments, costing less than
US$lOO,OOO, will be selectedusingthe Selection Basedon Consultant Qualifications method.

20. Individual Consultants. Consultants for project implementation and assignments in such sectors
as agnculture, economics, sociology, land tenure and other types o f short-term appointment that can be
deliveredby individuals selectedinaccordancewith paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11and5.4 of the Guidelines.

21. Trainings, Workshops,Seminars and Conferences. The total cost of these activities is estimated
at US$6.33 milliono f which IDA will finance US$2.26 million equivalent. Training, workshops,
seminars and conferences attendance and study tours will be carried out on the basis of approved
annual programs that will identifythe general framework o f training and similar activities for the year,
including the nature o f traininglstudy tourslworkshops, the number o f participants, and cost estimates.

22. IDA Reviews. Inaccordance with Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for Consultants, Bank staff will
reviewthe Borrower's proposed selection process for the hiringof consultants. All consultingcontracts
costing US$200,000 equivalent or more for firms andall contracts for audits regardless their estimated
cost, and all contracts for the employment o f individual consultants costing more than US$lOO,OOO and
all contracts for individual consultants selected on sole source basis, the report on the comparison of
the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and
terms o f employment o f the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review. All other
contracts would be subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4 Appendix 1 o f the
Guidelines. Any amendments to existing contracts that increase their values to levels equivalent to or
exceeding the prior review thresholds are subject to IDA review.

23. All consultants' terms of reference would be subject to IDA prior review. Other procurement
subject to IDA review would include: annual training plans for local and overseas training and
workshops, including terms of reference and estimated budgets. All out-of-country training will be
subject to IDA approval.

24. Modijication or waiver of the scope and conditions of contracts. Before agreeing to any material
extension, to substitution o f key staff or to any modification or waiver o f the conditions o f contracts
that would increase their aggregate cost by more than 15 percent o f the original price, the Borrower
shall specify the reasons thereof and seek IDA'Sprior non-objection for the proposed modification. A
copy o f all amendmentsto the contracts shall be furnished to the Bank.

25. Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The PIM has already been produced and is being revised
to incorporate various comments. It will define the project's intemal organization and implementation
procedures and would include: (i)   procedures for issuing biddinginvitations, selecting consultants, and
awarding contracts; (ii)  procedures and sample contracts for community-based procurement; (iii)      the


                                                - 57 -

     intemal organization for supervision and control, including operational guidelines defining the role o f
     the executing agency and reporting requirements; and (iv) disbursement procedures. The
     Implementation Manual has been adoptedprior to negotiations.

     26. During negotiations, the Government has submitted to IDA for review: (a) a draft procurement
    plan for the first year o f the project ;(b) the Project Implementation Manual; (c) the standard bidding
     documents to be used for NCB procedures for goods and works; and (d) a training program for the
    N C U and the PPUs. The Government has also provided assurances that the N C U will: (a) use the
    Project Implementation Manual; (b) use the Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments for ICB, the Standard
    Request for Proposals for the selection o f consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation Reports; (c)
    apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above; (d) update the procurement plan
    on a regular basis during annual reviews with IDA and other donors, to compare targeted and actual
    completion times, and transmit it to IDA, during implementation, with all procurement-related
    documents; and (e) carry out, during annual reviews, an assessment o f the effectiveness o f bidding
    procedures and performance, as they relate to the program's procurement experience, and propose for
    IDA and other donors' consideration any modifications to the current procedures that would accelerate
    procurement, while still maintaining compliance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and adequate
    control over contract awards and payments.

    27. The Government has also provided assurances at negotiations that it will take the necessary
    measure to ensure that procurement phases do not exceedthe following target time periods:

 Procurementmethods(Table A)


       Procurement Phases                                     Maximum number of weeks
      Preparation o f bidding documents                     4 (6 for large contracts)
      Preparation o f bids by bidders                       4 (6-10 for ICB)
      Bidevaluation                                         2 (4 for large contracts)
      Signature o f contracts                               2
      Payments                                              3




                                                           Procurement Method'
    Expenditure Category                    ICB                NCB             Other?        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                                    0.00               0.05             0.00          0.00          0.05
                                           (0.00)             (0.04)           (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.04)
2. Goods                                    0.00               0.87             0.40          2.00          3.27
                                           (0.00)             (0.68)           (0.30)        (0.00)       (0.98)
3. Services                                 0.00               0.00             5.23          5.40         10.63
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (3.29)        (0.00)       (3.29)
4. Training                                 0.00               0.00             2.33          4.00          6.33
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (2.26)        (0.00)       (2.26)
5. Matching Grants for                      0.00               0.00             12.94        40.13         53.07
micro-projects                             (0.00)             (0.00)          (10.00)        (0.00)       (10.00)



                                                     - 58 -

6. Operating Costs                            0.00                  0.00              5.47              4.00          9.47
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)            (3.43)            (0.00)        (3.43)
   Total                                      0.00                  0.92             26.37             55.53         82.82
                                             (0.00)                (0.72)           (19.28)            (0.00)       (20.00)


   Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f
   contracted staff o f the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
   costs relatedto (i) managing the project, and (ii)re-lendingproject funds to local government units.




                                                         - 59 -

                 Table A I: Consultant SelectionArrangements (optional)
                                 (US$ million equivalent)




                     (1.59)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.30)   (0.40)  (0.00) (0.00)  (2.29)
B. Individuals       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00     1.46   1.77    3.23
                     (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)  (1.OO) (0.00)  (1.OO)
               Total 2.50      0.00     0.00      0.40    0.50     1.46  5.77    10.63
                     (1.59)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.30)    (0.40)  (1.00) (0.00)  (3.29)




                                          - 60 -

Prior reviewthresholds(Table B)
                  Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review         '
                 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                                                                                     Contracts Subject to
                                                                                          Prior Review
                                                                                         (US$ millions)
1.Works                       less than $200,000                NCB                       Post Review
Rehabilitation or                                                                   (except first 3 contracts),
construction                                                                         amount:USO.O5 million


Small works for
micro-projects                 $125,000 or less       Local Shopping for works            Post Review
                                                                                    (except first 3 contracts),
                                                                                     amount:USO.15 million
2. Goods                       $500,000 or more                 ICB                       Prior review




                               Below $500,000                   N C B                     Post Review
                                                                                    (except first 3 contracts),
                                                                                    amount: US0.87 million

                               Less than $50.000              Shopping                    Post Review
3. Services                    $200,000 or more                QCBS                       Prior Review
Consulting firms                                                                   (amount: US$2.50 million)



                               Below $100,000                   CQ                        Post Review
                                                                                      (TORSprior review)
4. Financial and              Less than $100,000                LCS                       Prior Review
Technical Audits
5. Individual              ;100,000or more and sole                                (Prior Review o f the report
Consultants                          source                                         onthe comparison ofthe
                                                                                        qualifications and
                                                                                    experience o f candidates,
                                                                                        the qualifications,
                                                                                      experience, terms o f
                                                                                     reference andterms o f
                                                                                       employment of the
                                                                                          consultants)
6. Miscellaneous

               Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$3.57 million
                       Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:       Average
      Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: One every 6 months
                                                                  (includes special procurement supervision for
                                                                 post-review/audits)



                                               - 61 -

"Thresholds generallydiffer by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacityto Implement
 Procurement"and contact the RegionalProcurement Adviser for guidance.




                                                    - 62 -

            Annex 6(B): Financial Managementand DisbursementArrangements
              CAMEROON: Community Development Program Support Project

FinancialManaPement
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagement Assessment

Scope of the assessment

   Based on program implementation arrangement, the overall responsibility for financial management
   will remain with the NCU and carried out by the Coordinator, the Assistant coordinator and the
   Financial Management Specialist. Accordingly, the scope o f the assessment will be limited to the
   NCU.     However, given the decentralized nature o f the program, the coordination and reporting
   mechanisms between the entities involved in the program and the N C U will be looked at to ensure the
   arrangements inplace will allow for smooth implementationo fprogram's activities as well as to ensure
   that loan proceeds are used only for the purposes for which the loan is granted, with due regard to
   economy, efficiency, andthe sustainableachievement o f the program's development objectives.

CNC financial management capacity

   The capacity o f N C U is acceptable and the preparation activities are in progress. The objective is to
   have a fully established and functional N C Uto declare the program effective so that at the outset o f the
   implementation o f the activities, the N C U has the appropriate accounting, internal control, and the
   relevant financial reporting systems inplace. This will allow the N C U to (i) record and report
                                                                                   reliably
   the financial transactions of the program ina timely manner, including those transactions involvingthe
   use o f Bank funds and other donors ;and (ii)   provide sufficient and relevant financial information for
   managing and monitoring program activities. All these considerations have been taken into account to
   define the financial management proposed below.

FinancialManagement

   The NCU through its financial management and accounting unit will have the overall responsibility of
   the project financial management. It will have to maintain project's consolidated budget and accounts.
   To that end, the financial management and accounting unit will be equippedwith a computerized and
   integrated financial management appropriate to the scale and nature o f the different phases o f the
   program and capable o f recording and reporting in a timely manner the program's by geographical
   locations, components, activities, expenditure categories and origin o f funds. The computerized
   financial management system will be multi-currency and will include the following modules which
   should be integrated : general accounting, cost accounting, assets management, preparation o f
   withdrawal applications and tracking o f disbursements by donors, reports generating, including
   quarterly FMR and annual financial statements. A fully functioning financial management system
   satisfactory to the Bank is considered as a condition o f credit effectiveness.

   A Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual has been finalized which includes a
   description of and procedures. It describes : (i) the overall organization o f the program including and
   organizational diagram and job description of the accounting and financial staff; (ii)     the accounting
   systemwhich will be on an accrual basis; (iii) main transactions cycles; format, content, and timing
                                                   the
   o f the program's financial reporting, i.e., financial statements and other financial reports including
   FMRs, filing system, etc.; (iv) the various operational procedures including budget management (



                                                   - 63 -

   planning, execution and monitoring ) and management o f assets, procurement o f goods ands services,
    disbursement; and (v) internal control procedures.

Financial Management risk

    The financial management risk are related to : (i)the weak implication of the technical staff on the
    internal control issue who are particularly involved in the core activities; (ii) availability o f timely
   regular budget for the operations of PAPNDP; (iii)The planning o f the activities for the different
   phases o f the program ( initiation, expansion and consolidation ) and the assessment o f the progress
   and the related costs; (iv) the ability o f local governments to be given the responsibility for managing
   PAPNDP resources; (v) the impact o f the variety o f donors inthe program and the combination o f the
   different natures of their contribution in the program ;(vi) the setting up of different mechanisms to
   channel funds to communes and communities.

   To mitigate these risks, the following has to be observed: (a) care must be exercised in ensuring the
   timely availability and release of Counterpart Funds; (b) regular Bank supervision missions, including
    SOEs reviews and timely follow-up of management letter issues, will be essential; (c) the planning and
   budgeting activity should be properly organized in consultation with different donors; (d) timely
    information on monitoring andevaluation mustbe provided.

Staffing

   At the national level, the most important part of the staff have been recruited based on a competitive
    selection acceptable to the Bank. The key persons of the project have relevant academic background
    andprofessional experience and are familiar with Bank procedures andrequirements.

   The PAPNDP Financial Management Specialist will work closely with the Bank Financial
   Management Specialist (FMS) during the preparation to finalize the terms o f reference o f the project's
    staff and that o f the auditor to agree the format and the content o f FMRs.

   A Procurement specialist and an environmental andsocial coordinator will be identifiedandrecruited.

    The key staff at the provincial level will be recruited The recruitment planwill be set in accordance
                                                             .
   with the project's implementationprogress.

Reporting

   At least two sets of financial reports will be prepared by the NCU: the quarterly Financial monitoring
   Reports (FMRs, as required by the Bank) and the annual program's financial statements.                The
    quarterly FMRs agreedupon at appraisal will be prepared and submittedto the Bank 45 days after the
   closing o f the quarter following the date o f effectiveness. The FMRs will be based on the formats
   developed in the Bank's Guidelines on Financial Monitoring Reports, agreed to with the Administrator
   and the Accountant, with some adjustments. For example, besides the two financial tables (Sources
   and Uses o f Funds, Uses o f Fundsby Project Activity), the N C Uwill prepare a thirdtable pertaining to
   Uses o f Funds by Category o f Expenditure. The FMRs focus on the financial aspects o f the project
   and their purpose is project monitoring, not management. The FMRs are not the same as the audited
   financial statements required annually for each project. However, they may form the basis o f these
   statements. Itwas also agreedthat the FMRs will include financial, physical progress andprocurement
   information to provide information that is useful to the borrower while also providing the Bank with


                                                     - 64 -

   sufficient information to establish whether: (i)funds disbursed to the project are being used for the
   purpose intended; (ii) implementationis on track; and (iii)
                           project                                        budgeted costs will not be exceeded.
   The annual financial statements will comprise and will not be limited to: (i)        the Statement of Source
   and Application o f Funds for the program during the current financial year, and cumulatively since the
   start o f the program; (ii)the statement of expenditures (SOEs); (iii)the Special Account
   Statement'Reconciliation; (iv) the Project Account StatementReconciliation and any other financial
   report the Accountant deems necessary andrelevant.



ProgramFinancialManagement Capacity StrengtheningAction Plan

   To ensure that the above mentioned financial management system requirements will be met in due time
   to declare project effectiveness, an action plan is proposed hereafter with tasks to be performed as well
   as target completion date.

    Action                                             Tasks                            Target completion
                                                                                        date
     1.Recruitment ofthe Procurement                   Preparation o f TORs and         12131103
    Specialist                                         simature o f contract

    2. Finalization o f the Project Administrative, Update informationo f the           02118/04
    Financial and Accounting Manual                    Manual basedon the Bank
                                                       review

    3. Selection o f an extemal auditor for annual Preparation o f TORs,                04/29/04
    accounts including the PPF inthe first year        launching of the the
    audit                                              recruitment process and
                                                       signature o f contract

    4. Installationo f the integrated financial        Design, installation,            04115/04
    management and Monitoringand                       configuration, testing, and
    Evaluation systems                                training o f staff.



2. Audit Arrangements

FinancialAudit

   The project's consolidated financial statements will be audited for each fiscal year by an independent
   auditor acceptable to IDA inaccordance with auditing standards also acceptable to IDA. Audit reports
   o f reasonable scope and detail will be submitted to IDA within six months o f the end o f the audited
   period. The auditor will provide an opinion on: (i)        the project financial statements (Statement o f
   Source andApplication o f Funds andBalance Sheet); (ii)       the statemento f expenditures (SOE); (iii)the
   Special Account (SA); and(iv) the project account.

   The auditor will also issue a separate management report on intemal and operational procedures,
   outlining any recommendations for improvements to intemal accounting controls and operational
   procedures identified as a result o f the financial statement audit at the levels o fNCU, PPUs and CBOs.



                                                    - 65 -

    Detailed terms of reference for the selection o f the project's auditor were prepared, discussed and
    agreed on during preparation. The Audit Scope will be tailored the program's specific risks in
    accordancewith Bank requirements and agreedwith the Borrower.

    The selection o f an auditor acceptable to the Bank is a condition of effectiveness.

TechnicalAudit

    Contracts with beneficiaries, for which templates are appended to the PIM, will be subject to
    micro-project technical audits. These may be ordered and managed, either systematically or randomly,
    by the NCU or the PPUs. For this purpose, the Program may hire outside firms.

3. DisbursementArrangements

Allocation of credit proceeds(Table C)

    A computerized accounting andintegrated financial managementsystem will be set up andassessedby
    IDA as a condition of effectiveness. The system will allow inputs at different levels to capture all
    disbursements to be effected under the project.

    Statement of Expenditures. Disbursements for all expenditures should be against full documentation
    except for expenditure items under contracts valued at less than: (a) US$500,000 for goods; (b)
    US$200,000 for consulting contracts awarded to firms; (c) $100,000 for consulting contracts awarded
    to individuals; and (d) civil works, all training and operating costs, which will be reimbursed on the
    basis o f Statements o f Expenditure (SOEs). All supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained at
    the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) and will be readily accessible for review by periodic
    Banksupervision missions andexternal auditors.

    In the case of the funds for grants to be made to communities, there will be pre-financing of
    expenditures, as communities are unlikely to start contracting without the assurance of funds. All
    disbursements against expenditures under the Financial Support to Rural Communities Development
    will be subject to expost financial andphysical audits, on a sample basis, to be carried out by auditors
    employed by the project.

    Special Accounts, Second Generation Special Accounts and 90-Day Advance.              To facilitate the
    project implementation and reduce the volume o f withdrawal applications, the Caisse Autonome
    d'Amortissement on behalf o f the Government, will open two Special Accounts (SA) in FCFA in a
    commercial bank on terms andconditions acceptableto IDA.The first Special Account (SA-A) will be
    used exclusively to finance all the micro-projects in form of Grants and the second Special Account
    (SA-B) will be used to finance all other activities such as monitoring & evaluation and project
    management costs (NCUPPUs expenses). The authorized allocation for SA-A will be FCFA 600
    million and will cover about four months o f eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation for SA-B
    will be FCFA 480 million and will cover about four months of eligible expenditures. Upon credit
    effectiveness, IDA will deposit the amount o f FCFA FCFA 600 million in SA-A, representing the total
    allocation for that account, and FCFA 240 million in SA-B representing approximately 50 percent o f
   the authorized allocation of this Special Account. The remaining balance will be made available when
   the total commitments issuedamount to the equivalent ofUSD 4 million. The Special Accounts will be
   used for all payments in an amount below 20% o f the initial deposit to the Special Accounts.



                                                    - 66 -

   Replenishment applications will be submitted monthly. Further deposits by IDA into the Special
   Accounts will be made against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documents.

   Inaddition to the Special Account A (SA-A), with the authorization ofthe National Coordinator of the
   project, the Provincial Coordinators will open five (5) Second Generation Special Accounts in the
   Province du Sud, Province du Centre, Province de I'ildamaoua, Province de I'Ouest and Province du
   Nord on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The N C U shall withdraw from the main
   Special Account and deposit an amount not to exceed FCFA 100 million into each Second Generation
   Special Account. These funds will be used exclusively to finance the sub-projects proposed by the
   communities.

   The Government will also open five (5) 90-Day Advance Accounts related to Special Account B
   (SA-B) in the same provinces, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The N C U shall
   withdraw from the main Special Account and deposit an amount not to exceed FCFA 30 million into
   each 90-Day Advance Account. These funds will be used to finance activities such as project
   implementation and management, monitoring & evaluation, consulting services and operating costs at
   the PCUs' level.

Flow of funds

   Resources needed for the financing o f program activities will flow from (i)the Credit Account for
   Direct Payments to be made by IDA to suppliers, (ii)the Special Accounts A and B, the Second
   Generation Special Accounts and the 90-Day Advance Accounts (all maintained in commercial banks
   acceptable to IDA) for the activities to be financed by IDA and (iii)    the Project Account for the
   counterpart funds. The project Financial Management Specialist (FMS) andthe Accountants will be in
   charge o f the financial management o f the project. The Managing Director o f the Caisse Autonome
   d'Amortissement (Directeur GCnCral de la CAA) or his Authorized Representative will sign all the
   checks for the payments to be made under the Special Accounts A and B. The Provincial Coordinators
   of the project in the PPUs and the Regional Accountants will countersign the checks for the payments
   to be made under the Second Generation Special Accounts and the 90-Day Advance Accounts. Under
   the supervision o f the project Financial Management Specialist, the project Accountants (one in
   Yaounde and 5 inthe Provinces) will prepare all the requiredsupporting documents andthe withdrawal
   applications for the replenishment o f the Special Accounts to be submitted to IDA at least once a
   month through the Caisse Autonome d'ilmortissement (CAA).         The Project Account will receive
   counterpart funds incompliance withthe terms o f the DCA.




                                                 - 67 -

                          Table C: Allocation of Development Financing Proceeds




Allocation of credit proceeds(Table C)
                                   Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds

                Expenditure Category              Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
     1.Civil works                                        0.04              100%of foreign expenditures
                                                                              80% of local expenditures
2. Vehicles andEquipments                                 0.98           100%of foreign
                                                                           expenditures
                                                                           70% of local
                                                                           expenditures
3. Consultant Services, Audits and Studies                3.20         1  72% of foreign
                                                                           expenditures
                                                                           70%oflocal



      Grants for Sub-Projects                    I        10.00         I100% of amount
  8 .

                                                                            disbursed
6. Operating Costs                                        2.50                70%
7. PPF                                                    1.31             Amount due
8. Unallocated                                            1.oo


ITotal Project Costs                             I       20.00          I

I Total                                          I       20.00          I




                                                 - 68 -

                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
              CAMEROON: Community Development Program Support Project


 ProjectSchedule                                           Planned                      Actual
 lime taken to prepare the project (months)              24
 First Bank mission (identification)

]Appraisal mission departure                   I         06/23/2003           I       06/23/2003    I
 Negotiations                                            0111212004                   01121/2004
 Planned Date of Effectiveness                           06/01/2004


Prepared by:
Ministryo fEconomic Affairs, Programmingand Regional Development


Preparation assistance:
Japanese Grants for project preparation (TF050810 for US$ 82,500 & TF026786 for US$ 630,560)


Bank staff who worked on the projec included:
                                                         Speciality
                                         AFTS3, Task Team Leader
 Franqois Rantrua                        SFRSI, Corporate Strategy Officer
 Noel Chabeuf                            AFTS4, Livestock Specialist
 Soulemane Fofana                        AFTS3, Operations Analyst
 Gilles Veuillot                         LEGAF, Legal
 MohammedA. Bekhechi                     LEGEN,Legal
 Pierre Morin                            AFTPC, Procurement Specialist
 Agnes Albert-Loth                       LOAGl,Disbursement
 Henri Aka                               AFTPC, Procurement Specialist
I
 FridolinOndobo                          AFTFM, Financial Management Specialist
 Siaka Bakayoko                          AFTFM, Senior Financial Management Specialist
 Helene Ndjebet                          AFMCM, Operations Analyst
 Robert Robelus                          AFTS1, Environmental Assessment Specialist
 Kristine Ivarsdotter                    AFTS1, Social Development Specialist
 Clotilde Ngomba                         AFTS3, Agricultural Economist
 Moctar Thiam                            AFTTR, Transport Specialist
 Luc Lecuit                              AFC07, Operations Officer
 Jacomina de Regt                        AFTS1, Lead Specialist, Peer Reviewer
WillemZijp                               ECCU8, Operations Adviser, Peer Reviewer
 Sylvie Mbappe                           AFTS3, Language Program Assistant
ValBrie Layrol                           Consultant, RuralDevelopment Sp.
Jean-Jacques Pesquet                     Consultant, Agro-economist
Yves Jantzem                             Consultant, Implementation Sp.



                                                - 69 -

 Olivier Franqois            Consultant, Implementation Assistant
 Magaye Gaye                 Consultant, Financial Management Sp.
 Dan Aronson                 Consultant, Indigenous People Sp.


FrenchDevelopmentAgency :
Denis Loyer                AFD Sector Manager Environment andNatural Resources
                            Management
Caroline Piquet             AFD Project Manager
Luc Mogenet                 AFD RuralDevelopment Specialist




                                    - 70 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
             CAMEROON: Community Development Program Support Project


A. Project Implementation Plan

        "Manuel d'execution du PNDP" (January 2004) ;
   0    "Manuel de procedures comptables, administratives et financibres" (January 2004) ;
   0    "Manuel de suivi et evaluation" (January 2004).

B. Bank Staff Assessments

   0    "Aide-memoire de la mission de prk-evaluation du PNDP" (July 2002);
   0    "Aide-memoire de la mission d'appui technique duPNDP" (November 2002);
   0    "Aide-memoire de la mission de cadrage duPNDP" (April2003) ;
   0    "Aide-memoire de la mission d'evaluation du PNDP" (July 2003) ;
   0    "Aide-memoire de la mission d'appui duPNDP" (November 2003);
        Procurement capacity assessment (AFTQK, November 2003);
   0    Financial management capacity assessment (AFTFM, November 2003).

C. Other

   0    "Decentralisation communale et developpement local au Cameroun" (July 2002);
   0    Environmental and Social Management Framework (June 2003);
   0    Resettlement Policy Framework (June 2003);
   0    Indigenous People Development Plan (June 2003).
*Including electronic files




                                                 -71 -

                                           Annex 9: Statement of Loansand Credits
                        CAMEROON: Community Development Program Support Project
                                                            11-Fev-2004
                                                                                                                  Difference between expected
                                                                                                                           and actual
                                                                 Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements'
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA                      Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO74490     2003 DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE                          0.00       56.40                      0.00   63.60         2.80      0.00

PO54786     2003 CAMEROONRAILWAYCONCESSIONPROJECT               0.00      21.40                       0.00   17.00         2.50      0.00
PO73065     2001 CAM:Multi-sectoralHlViAlDS Project             0.00       50.00                      0.00   35.90       -20.80      0.00

PO65927     2000 PubliciPrivatePartnership.Growth               0.00      20.90                       0.00   14.40        13.00      0.00
PO51059     2000 CHADCAM PIPE (CAM)                            53.40        0.00                      0.00     4.90       -2.90      0.00

PO48204     2000 ENVIRONMENTOIL T.A.                            0.00        5.80                      0.00     5.00        2.80      0.00

PO45348     1999 CAM:AG.EXT.BRES.SUPPORT                        0.00       15.10                      0.00     3.80        2.90      0.00
PO54443     1998 Cameroon SAC 111
                            -                                   0.00      220.70                      0.00   66.30       29.10      44.50

                                                     Total:   53.40      390.20                       0.00   211.00       29.60      44.50




                                                               - 72 -

                                          CAMEROON
                                       STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                     HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                          Jan 31 - 2004
                                        InMillions US Dollars


                                                         Committed                        Disbursed
                                                        IFC                             IFC

FY Approval     Company                          Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic

1995            AEF Comp Avicole                 0.34     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.34   0.00    0.00  0.00
2002            AEF FME-GAZ                      0.00     0.00     0.34     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.34  0.00
2000            AEF Hobec                        0.46     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.19   0.00    0.00  0.00
1996            AEF Notacam                      0.87     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.87   0.00    0.00  0.00
2003            AEF SODETRAN-C                   0.87     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
1999            AEF Saicam                       0.00     0.00     0.30     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.30  0.00
2000            BICEC                            0.00     0.94     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
1986            CICAM                            2.19     0.00     0.00     0.00   2.41   0.00    0.00  0.00
2000            COTCO                           86.10     0.00     0.00    86.10  86.10   0.00    0.00  86.10
2002            Orange Cameroon                   1.74    0.00     3.78     0.00   0.00   0.00    3.78   0.00
1992/94/97198   Pecten Cameroon                 44.00     0.00     0.00    65.85  13.04   0.00    0.00  32.96

                       Total Portfolio:         136.57    0.94      4.42  151.95  102.95   0.00    4.42 119.06



                                                     Approvals Pending Commitment

FY Approval     Company                             Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000            AEF Complexe I1                      0.00      0.17      0.00     0.00
2004           AEFNOSA I1                            0.42      0.00      0.00     0.00

                Total PendingCommitment:             0.42      0.17      0.00     0.00




                                               - 73 -

                                               Annex I O : Country at a Glance
                   CAMEROON: Community Development Program Support Project

                                                                  SUb-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                               Saharan   Low-
                                                       Cameroon  Africa income       Developmentdiamond^
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                             15.5    688    2,495                  Lifeexpectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                          560    450     430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                                                       T
                                                            8.7    306    1,072

Average annual growth, 1996-02

Population (%)                                              2.2     2.4     1.9
Labor force (%)                                             2.4     2.5     2.3      3NI                               Gross
                                                                                     Der                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                zapita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of populationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                        50      33     30
Life expectancyat birth (years)                             48       46     59                         l.
Infant mortality (per 1,000livebitfhsj                      97     105      81
Child malnutrition(% of children under5)                    22                            Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% of population)          58       58     76
Illiteracy 1%ofpopulation age 15+)                          26       37     37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)        108      86     95             W"     Cameroon
    Male                                                    115      92    103              -_ -  Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                  100      80     87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1982    I992    2001    2002
                                                                                     Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                  7.3    11.4     8.7     9.4
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                     24.8     14.3    18.1    18.1                      Trade
Exportsof goods andserviceslGDP                   36.8     20.5   29.5     28.0
Grossdomestic savingsiGDP                          29.6    16.5    19.0    16.6                         T
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                          27.2    12.4    14.7    13.7

Currentaccount balanceiGDP                          2.0    -1.9    -1.7    -6.9
Interest paymentsiGDP                               2.1     1.3     2.9     2.4
Total debtlGDP                                    37.1     74.9   96.1     90.6
Totaldebt service/exports                          15.7    16.3    12.3    16.1                         1
Presentvalue of debtlGDP                                          56.6
Presentvalue of debffexports                                      180.7                           Indebtedness

                                      1982-92 1992-02     2001    2002  2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
                                                                                    1
GDP                                      -0.2       3.6     5.3    4.4      5.2
GDP Der caDita                           -3.0       1.2     3.1    2.2      3.0             __ Low-incomegroup


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                  1982    1992    2001    2002       Growthof investmentand GDP (X)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                       28.7     27.3   42.4     45.5     15 T

Industry                                          32.1     25.8    17.7    17.9
   Manufacturing                                  12.1     14.3    9.3      9.1     11
                                                                                     5
Services                                          39.2     47.0   39.9     36.6
                                                                                     0
Privateconsumption                                61.6     70.7   69.7     71.7             97    98    99   w      01    02
Generalgovernment consumption                       8.8    12.8   11.3     11.8     I         -GDI          *GDP
Importsof goods and services                      32.0     18.3   28.6     29.5

                                               1982-92 1992-02    2001    2002     1 Growthof exportsand imports (%)
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                                       1
Agriculture                                         0.9     6.2    4.3      2.2     20

Industry                                           -0.2     3.0    5.0      2.9
   Manufacturing                                    0.5     4.3    5.6      3.7     10

Services                                           -6.5     1.6    5.3      6.7
                                                                                     0
Private consumption                                -0.4     4.6    6.0      6.1
Generalgovernmentconsumption                        4.4     5.4   12.9      7.0
Grossdomestic investment                           -8.2     4.7    5.2      4.5
Importsof goods and services                       -0.6     9.3    8.8      6.2

                                                                                                           Cameroon

 PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1982   1992    2001    2002      Inflation (%)
 Domesticprices                                                                                                            c
 (% change)
 Consumer prices                          13.4   -0.1     2.8     2.9
 ImplicitGDP deflator                     12.5   -1.3      1.7    1.8

 Governmentfinance
 (% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
 Current revenue                          24.6  15.7     19.8    20.1             97      9a     99      w     01        02
 Current budget balance                   11.6   -2.9     5.0     5.5             -GDP       deflator  -0-CPI
 Overallsurplus/deficit                    0.8   -6.3    -0.7    -3.2

 TRADE                                                                                                                      I
                                         1982   1992    2001    2002
 (US$ millions)                                                            Exportand import levels (US$ mill.)

 Total exports(fob)                      2,227 1,937    2,129   1,794    2.500 T
  Fuel                                     882   868    1,048    812
  Cocoa                                    134   132      103     130    2,000

  Logs                                      77   241      158     140    1,500
 Total imports(ciD                       1,285 1,023    1,617   1,833    1,000
  Food                                      59   189      181    203
  Fueland energy                            57     8       63      58      500

  Capitalgoods                             328   319     416     421          0
                                                                                 96    97    98    99    00   01
 Export priceindex (1990=100)              165    95      245    219  I
 Importpriceindex (1990=100)                87    99      212    207                   EB Exports        Imports
 Terms of trade (1990=100)                 190    96      116     106

 BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                         1982   1992    2001    2002     1 Currentaccount
 (US$ millions)                                                                            balance to GDP (Oh)

 Exportsof goods and services            2,432 2,342    2,708   2,377
 Importsof goods and services            2,117 2,087    2,479   2,757
 Resourcebalance                           315   254      229   -380

 Net income                              -228   -646    -494    -396
 Net currenttransfers                       57   176      119     127

 Current account balance                   144  -216    -147    -650

 Financingitems (net)                    -192    327     316     848
 Changes in net resewes                    48   -112    -169    -198

 Memo:
 Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)      81     30     340     640
 Conversionrate (DEC. /oca//US$)         296.7 280.4    743.5   732.7

 EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982   1992    2001    2002
 (US$ millions)                                                            Compositionof 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
 Totaldebt outstanding anddisbursed      2,715 8,531    8,369  8,495
   IBRD                                    182   723      179     142
   IDA                                    205   232      758     847

 Total debtservice                        387   394      335     386
   IBRD                                    17     63       39      56
   IDA                                      2      3       13      14

 Compositionof net resourceflows
   Officialgrants                                          26
   Officialcreditors                      107   447        43     -78
   Privatecreditors                        56     73      -91     -49
   Foreigndirectinvestment                               102
   Portfolioequity                                          0                          E: 5.648
 World Bank program
   Commitments                              0      0       58      83      A  IBRD                         E- Bilateral
                                                                             ~


   Disbursements                           52     54       32      51      B IDA
                                                                            -        D Other multilateral
                                                                                       -                   F Private
                                                                                                            -
   Principalrepayments                      5     32       28      50      C IMF
                                                                             -                            G Short-term
                                                                                                            -
   Net flows                               46     22       4        1
   Interestpayments                        14     34       24      20
   Nettransfers                            33    -12      -20     -19

'ueveiopment tconomics                                                                                             YIf/J/Uf/J




                                                     - 75 -

                 Additional Annex 11:Letter of Rural Development Policy
           CAMEROON:Community DevelopmentProgram Support Project

                                    UNOFFICIALTRANSLATION

CONTEXT

1. Since 1990, the Government o f Cameroon has undertaken a restructuring of the Rural Sector
within the framework of the revival of the Cameroon economy. Modernization of the agricultural
sector, which experienced a sharp decline inexport income since 1987, is one o f the expected results o f
this restructuring.

2. The impacts o f the country's first-generation agricultural policy reforms were not all foreseen. In
light o f this, the Government has altered its strategy inpreparing for a new phase of agricultural sector
growth, taking into consideration the favorable evolution o f the macro-economic environment o f the
late 90's. The Government likewise intendsto simultaneously address the social deficit following years
o f economic crisis, which is particularly visible inthe considerable deterioration o f human development
indicators.

3. Cognizant that a deterioration o f social capital could negatively impact growth and social cohesion,
the Government has chosento launch a new generation of socio-economic policies that promise to: (i)
consolidate the gains o f previous programs to increase the pace o f growth; and (ii) reinforce social
                                                                                         to
policy issues such that sound economic performance can translate into the amelioration o f living
conditions amongst the population. With these aims in mind, the Government has elaborated a Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).

SECTORALSTRATEGICCHOICES

4. Parallel to the elaboration o f the PRSP, a number o f framework policies have been devised,
including sector-based strategies and programs and projects to be implemented in short- and long-term
time horizons. These policies, intum, have been articulated along seven strategic axes:
o    The promotion o f a stable macro-economic framework;
o    The reinforcement o f economic growth through diversification;
o    Invigoration o f the private sector as an engine o f economic growth and partner for social services
     delivery;
o    Development o f basic infrastructure, natural resources management andenvironmentalprotection;
o    Acceleration o fregional integrationwithin the framework o f the CEMAC;
o    The reinforcement o f human and social capital and the integration o f marginalized groups in the
     economic system;
o    Improvement inthe institutional framework, administrative management and govemance.

5. Without further diversification, economic growth would remain dependent on export income from
traditional commodities, compelling the public sector to make frequent adjustments at the risk of
aggravating the situation o f vulnerable population groups. The Government is therefore determined to
accelerate economic diversification through reforms that can raise the growth rate at an average rate of
6% inthe period 2005 to 2015. The Rural Sector Development Strategy (RSDS) constitutes one o f the
pillars o f these reforms.




                                                 - 76 -

6. The improvement o f the living conditions o f the rural populace through participatory approaches
lies at the core o f the RSDS. Socio-economic studies carried out in the region in 2000 have revealed
that 86% o f the poor live in rural areas and 84% o f the rural population is poor. Among the
determinants o f poverty include:
o   Lack o f organization o f the agricultural sector prior to liberalization;
o   The isolation o f rural areas;
o   Weak govemance;
o   The existence o f numerous dysfunctions at the social level;
o   Poor access to basic social services;
o   Poor access o f economic actors to natural resources.

7. For each o f these above articulated poverty factors, a new frame o f reference has been outlined,
whose objective is to ensure strong, sustainable, and equitable rural sector growth. The Government
intendsto address several challengesinmeetingthis objective:
o   Ensuringaccess to social basic services;
o   Satisfying the increasing food needs o f the population;
o   Successfully integrating intemational and sub-regional markets;
o   Ensuringfor the long-term sustainability of sector performance.

OPERATIONAL STRATEGY

8. Participatory PRSP consultations with stakeholders helpedto identifyfive priority domains:
0   Local Development in the most decentralized mannerpossible to respond to questions linkedto the
    determination o f living conditions, effective participation indecision making and the appropriation
    o f new infrastructure.
0   The development of vegetable, animal andJish production to (i)           increase producer income, (ii)
    ensure the food security o f the rural and urban populations and (iii) appropriate conditions
                                                                              create
    for the effective integration o f producers innational, sub-regional or internationalmarkets.
0   Institutional support to producers, building essential capacities to adapt to the evolving
    environment.
0   Sustainable management of           natural resources to improve long-term productivity and
    performance, usingenvironmentally friendly technical andeconomical innovations.
0   Rural sector Jinance to encourage savings and income redistribution under concessional grants or
    credits guaranteeing access to credit for all producers, includingthe peasantry.

9. These priorities have been translated into a structured operational framework and programs with
an operational budget. Four managing principles will guide their implementation:
o   Coherence o f the interventions;
o   Contracting o f service providers;
o   Promotion o f subsidiary bodies;
o   Empowerment o f civil society.

SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT MEASURES

10. The sound recommendations from the rural sector partners roundtable in Cameroon, which took
place April 29-30, 2003, constituted an important step for adopting sectoral adjustment measures, and
achieving consensus on the subsequent action plan and concrete mechanisms to ensure harmonious
development o f the rural space.




                                                 - 77 -

11 Inaccordancewith the roundtable recommendations inCameroon, The Government undertakes to:
0   Establish coherent programs for each o f the intervention axes identified by the rural sector
    development strategy;
0   Promote dialogue and planningplatforms, at both centralized and decentralized levels;
0   Promote an adapted coordination mechanism for implementation o f the sectoral strategy, taking
    into account the specificities o f each sub-sector;
0   Promote the set up o f harmonized sectoral intervention and monitoring and evaluation mechanisms,
    and in particular through the set up o f coordination and follow up committees, both at central and
    decentralized level;
0   Reinforce the financial and technical capacities o f concemed ministries for efficient realization o f
    their assignedmissions;
0   Deepen sub-sectoral andthematic policies that can contribute to the optimal implementation o f the
    rural sector development strategy, such as local govemance, local hydrology and electrification,
    transportation, land tenure, community forests, the environment, etc.

l?
IL. The Govemrnent also intends to take a number o f measures in order to create a favorable
environment for the realizationo fthe objectives o f the rural development strategy:

a) Regardinglocal development, the Government
  o    Will continue to strongly reinforce the capacities of local decentralized authorities and
       communities;
  o    Designates the Community Development Program (PNDP) as the global dialogue, synergy and
       implementationframework for the local development axis of the rural development strategy.

b) Regardingthe development of vegetable, animal andflsh production, the Government will
  o    Establisha framework for positive incentives, through, inter alia, a re-engineering of the fiscal
       system, protecting sectoral economic agents and operators, and the development of a targeted
       subsidy policy;
  o    Urgentlyestablish a multi-disciplinary body to coordinate the preparation of the development of
       vegetable, animal and fishproductionsprograms.

c) Regardinginstitutional support, the Government will inparticular
  o    Ensure proper coordination of all technical ministries charged with the rural sector, at both
       centralized and decentralized levels to guarantee the coherent implementation o f programs and
       projects that conform well to sectoral policies and strategies.

d) Regardingsustainablenaturalresourcesmanagement, the Government will
  o    Clarify andprotect access to and use o f natural resources;
  o    Harmonize several ongoing or planned programs regarding the management o f community
       forestry along a community-based approach.

e) Regardingrural sector finance, the Government will
  o    Improve access to micro-credit, particularly through reinforcing the development o f a
       micro-finance network and an improvement o f the tax systeminthe rural sector;
  o    Harmonizemodalities to support the financing o f communal and community needs.

13. Concerned about the sustainability o f development interventions, the Government has already
committed to mobilize its own funds, in particular HIPC funds, to finance the priority needs o f
decentralized collectivities, rural communities, and professionalagricultural and pastoral organizations


                                                 - 78 -

that have been identified in participatory processes and that will be included in future programs and
projects under the rural development strategy. This resource mobilization will be explicitly reflectedin
the budget allocationprocess.

ADVANCING THE RURAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY

14. The rural sector development strategy declaration (RSDSD) will be advanced by sectoral
ministries charged with rural development. They will be supported by a Steering Committee, through
the rural sector monitoring mechanism to be developed by the Government. This mechanism would
improve with the evolution of different programs and projects. It will be equipped with monitoring and
evaluation tools, including performance and impact indicators. The scheduling of regular RSDSD
reviews shall fall underthe responsibility of the Steering Committee.

15. Given these commitments, the Government now seeks contributions, collaborations, and technical
assistance from the donor community and other development partners to implement all of the
components ofthe rural sector development strategy.




                                                - 79 -

*




     - 80 -

- 81 -

- 82 -

83-

          Additional Annex 12: Financial and Institutionalarrangements
        CAMEROON: Community Development Program Support Project


                                1. Financial arrangements



                          IDA Credit Account                                     CounterpartFunds
                            Washington                                             (Government)

                                                            mL
                                              --4
                                                SpecialAccount               ProjectAccount Funchoning
        Micro-projects]                        [Other activities]                   NCUPPUs



NCU                                  NCU



                                                         5 Special Accounts
   5 Second generation
       Accounts

PPU   I




                    f                        w                   v




                                            - 84 -

                            2. Institutional arrangements




National




Communal




                                                            Community Based Organizations
Local                                                                 ( C W


         Project ImplementationUnits

         Deliberationentities set up by the PNDP to approve Development Plans and
         Subprojects




                                         -85-

- 86 -

MAP SECTION


