                                                              97555 September 20, 2010
Cameroon: Community Development Program Support Project APL1




 COMMUNITY-DRIVEN RURAL DEVELOPMENT

 Empowering Rural Communes and Communities in Cameroon
 through Fiscal Decentralization




Overview
Using International Development Association (IDA) resources and expertise, Cameroon has
accelerated its fiscal decentralization strategy by empowering rural communes and
communities to identify, plan, implement, and manage priority activities defined in their
development plans, including construction of economic and social infrastructure and provision
of health, education, and agricultural extension services. For the first time in Cameroon, the
financial resources (about US$24 million) were directly transferred to local governments and
community-based organizations to plan and manage their own development. These
achievements were only possible because of the project’s critical role in improving the legal
and regulatory framework for strengthened local governance and empowering decentralized
authorities with the legal authority to manage local development. Finally, the successful test of
the mechanism for channeling resources to the local level encouraged the Government to
transfer selected areas of competence and associated resources of nine ministries to local
governments in 2010.


Challenge
The government of Cameroon signaled its strong interest in
                                                                    More Results
promoting decentralization more than three decades ago, but
progress achieved toward this objective has been slow.

                                                                    67
Efforts to empower rural communities have been hampered
by the absence of a common vision for local development,
lack of appropriate planning and budgeting tools, and weak
capacity at the local level. Communal elected officials have        deaths per 1,000 live births in
                                                                    2006 from 124 in 2002
not been sufficiently empowered to manage local
development and have had limited accountability toward their
constituents. Investments channeled to local communities

                                                                    87.3%
have often been influenced by politically well-connected
elites and have not necessarily taken into account local
priorities. Last but not least, the flow of resources to the
                                                                    of medically-assisted delivery in
local level has been inefficient due to lengthy and non-            2006 compared to 44% in 2002
transparent administrative procedures and poor tracking
systems, leading to delays in implementation of investments
at local level.


Approach
                                                                    2%
                                                                    of HIV/AIDS prevalence among
The Community Development Program Support Project                   young pregnant women in 2009
(PNDP) was designed to support decentralization and local
development by removing or reducing some of these
obstacles, with the goal of improving basic social services
                                                                   MORE INFORMATION
delivery and establishing a decentralized financing
mechanism for local development. The project transferred           Djibouti and the World Bank
resources directly to communes through a phased process            Health Sector Development
designed to put in place a sustainable mechanism for               Project
channeling funds to rural communities to finance prioritized
                                                                   Country Assistance Strategy
collective infrastructure projects and service delivery            2009-2012
programs. Establishment of a sustainable and decentralized
financing mechanism capable of operating with full                 Active projects
participation of rural communities was seen as a long-term         Lending summary
objective, so the project was designed as an Adaptable
                                                                   Economic and Sector Work
Program Loan (APL) to be implemented in three phases over
a twelve-year period.                                              All publications

                                                                   Doing Business

Results                                                            Djibouti Data

The project achieved important results in three main areas:        Millennium Development Goals

Established a system for channeling resources to rural
communities and increased access to basic social services in
rural areas. The project successfully transferred nearly
US$24 million (US$6.6 million from IDA and US$17 million in
the government’s own funds) to communes and community-based organizations for the co-
financing of subprojects. These resources, which were transferred securely into the bank
accounts of communes and communities, were used to finance 691 subprojects. More than 1.6
million people benefitted directly from infrastructure financed through the project:

      98,415 people have improved access to education facilities

      116,916 people have improved access to health facilities

      Number of 89,629 people with improved access to energy

      Number of 164,778 people with improved access to water and sanitation

      Number of 128,169 people with improved access to economic infrastructure

      8,764 Women with improved access to gender promotion infrastructure

      21,780 Youth with improved to sport and leisure facilities

      Number of 45,861 people with improved access to market

Strengthened the capacity of communities and local governments to plan and manage their
own development. The concrete results achieved on the ground were complemented by
important achievements in terms of capacity building. During the course of providing support to
approximately 3,100 community-based organizations in the preparation of their local
development plans, the project greatly strengthened the ability of rural communities to manage
public resources. The project also supported the preparation of communal development plans
in 135 communes. The project strengthened capacity at the local level by providing training in
communal planning, functioning rules of communal and community subproject approval
committees, and familiarization with national and simplified procedures.
Improved the legal and regulatory framework for decentralized rural development. The project
has made a significant contribution to improving the legal and regulatory environment of
decentralization, thus providing communes with an adequate framework for improved local
development planning, financing and management. One study on local taxation and financial
regimes of the decentralized territorial collectivities (DTCs) led to the adoption and
promulgation of several new laws relating to the financial management of DTCs and the
collection and use of local taxes. Another study on institutional diagnostics and standard
employment types of communes led to the passing of an official decree regarding the
organizational structure for communes. The project also supported the preparation of key legal
texts relating to the evolving decentralization framework, which were used in drafting the
national and sectoral strategy on decentralization.
The preparation, and sometimes promulgation, of key legal texts clarified the role and
responsibilities of the decentralized and deconcentrated administrations, thus giving these
entities the legal authority and the human and financial resources needed for local
development. It contributed to increasing the coherence in local development planning,
including better alignment between sector and territorial priorities, and a more efficient use of
sector’s resources. This change was facilitated by the institutionalization of development plans
as investment planning and budget tools. The improved legal framework also helped
strengthening the coordination between the project and sector ministries and between
communities and communes as well. This has led to strengthened local governance and a
greater command of the local development process by communes, and an improved delivery of
basic social services.


Bank Contribution
IDA support has consisted of US$20 million approved in 2004. The IDA resources have been
used to leverage an even larger contribution of the government’s own resources, bringing the
total to over US$50 million, including US$24 million from French Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries (HIPC) funds.


Partners
By launching the Community Development Program in the face of challenging institutional
constraints (weak local capacity, ineffective governance systems at the community level), the
government of Cameroon not only showed a strong commitment to local development, but also
took a calculated risk regarding its success. The government was successful in forging a
strong partnership with IDA and other development partners (Agence Française de
Développement, AFD, Germany’s development bank KFW and the German Agency for
Technical Cooperation, GTZ) in preparing and successfully managing this project. The
government provided critical support to the National and Provincial Project Units, and directed
sector ministries to work with decentralized local governments in the planning and
management of local development.


Moving Forward
The project has contributed to decentralized local development through its support to the
elaboration of the development plans, through its financing of capacity building activities, and
by setting up a system for channeling resources to implement priority activities in the
development plans. The project has now set the stage to expand and consolidate these
achievements during the subsequent phases, with the ultimate goal of setting up a sustainable
mechanism for channeling funds to communities and communes for financing local
development.


Beneficiaries
Based on the impact evaluation, the average growth rate of the number of students in schools
where the project intervened has reached 45 percent, the students per classroom has
decreased (from 89.8 to 84.3), and the net global enrolment rate of children aged 6 to 11 has
improved, (from 75.6 to 77.3 in almost all the regions). It is estimated that the construction of
health facilities contributed to reduce the average distance from the household to the nearest
health centers, thus increasing the annual number of consultations and of attended births over
the period. In communities who benefited from water and sanitation subprojects), the number of
persons per water point fell from 916 to about 644. This improvement was associated with an
increase in the proportion of households with access to drinking water (from 20.6 percent to
25.0 percent) and a decrease in the percentage of persons suffering from diarrhea.
Meanwhile, the percentage of households with electricity in regions where the project
intervened increased (from 50.8 to 55.1 percent) leading to the creation of new income-
generating activities for many households, including in areas such as food processing,
carpentry, welding, mechanics, commerce , and thereby contributing to improve the living
conditions of populations.
Finally, with up to 41 percent of the infrastructure portfolio the procedures introduced under the
project have succeeded in making infrastructure subprojects more gender-responsive by
addressing the needs and constraints of women, thereby enhancing women’s opportunities for
employment. These actions, which never before received such attention, have enhanced the
social standing and decision making of women in their communities. Priority investments
identified by women’s groups often relate to water and sanitation, health and professional
training centers.
