Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER  3999 AM 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 19, 2004 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3999 AM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 19, 2004 between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated October 
19, 2004, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to eradicate poverty 
from the Borrower
’s territory (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit as hereinafter 
provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:  
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read:  
Page  4
-
2
-
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read:  
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:  
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“DTI Facility” means the direct trade input facility, which allows lodging and 
validating declarations by the customs declarants directly, with no need for customs interventions; 
and  
 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its Central Bank, a deposit 
account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said 
payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
Page  6
-
4
-
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time 
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1 and 
November 1 commencing May 1, 2015, and ending November 1, 2044.  Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on November 1, 2024, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.  
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
Page  7
-
5
-
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due diligence 
to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into effect. 
(b)  
The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(c) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
Page  8
-
6
-
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement  is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economy 
 
1
Government House 
 
Republic Square 
 
Yerevan 375010 
 
Republic of Armenia 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
243331 LADA SU 
(3741) 151-069 
Page  9
-
7
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Yerevan,  Republic of Armenia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
By 
/s/ Vardan Khachatryan 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Roger J. Robinson 
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No.34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  11
-
9
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is 
a
party);  
6. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if 
such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
Page  12
-
10
-
the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  13
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Program Actions Taken By the Borrower 
 
1. 
The Borrower has maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic framework. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has submitted to the Association satisfactory quantitative 
schedules to reduce: (a) outstanding VAT refund claims to past and existing exporters; 
and (b) tax arrears owed to the Borrower. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has: (a) initiated the use of a self-declaration system at all of its 
customs houses; and (b) extended access to DTI facilities at all of its customs houses to 
importers and custom brokers, all in a manner satisfactory to the Association.  
 
4. 
The Borrower has adopted a resolution, satisfactory to the Association: (a) 
widening participation in the provision of international civil aviation services, without 
prejudice to the existing obligations of the Borrower; and (b) enabling managerial and 
operational autonomy in the Borrower
’s “Armenian Railway” CJSC to constitute an 
independent board and reform its tariff-setting procedure. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has established a plan, satisfactory to the Association, aimed at 
strengthening creditors’ rights, and encompassing: (a) improvement of civil procedures 
for debt recovery; and (b) simplification of procedures for certification of property sales 
and registration of secured credit. 
 
6. 
The Borrower has improved targeting of beneficiaries within the family poverty 
benefit system, satisfactory to the Association. 
 
7. 
The Borrower has established a task force to develop a plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, aimed at: (a) strengthening the applied research and agriculture extension 
delivery system; (b) improving the links and information transfers between research 
and extension services; (c) increasing the domestic financing of the public extension 
system; and (d) augmenting the role of private advisory services through, among others: 
(i) increased utilization of fee-for-services; and (ii) promotion of the involvement of 
private agri-food marketing and agricultural input companies.
 
