Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Retprt No. 6571-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 21, 1988
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dutles. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank aothoriztion.



CURRENCY BQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Colombian Peso (Col$)
US$ 1.00 - Col$ 223.00 (01/01/87)
WEIC-IITS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAH           -  Banco Hipotecario
BOR           -  Banco de la Republics
(Bank of the Republic (Central Bank))
Caja          -  Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero (Caja Agraria)
(Agricultural, Industrial and Miring Credit Bank)
CDT           -  Certificado de Deposito a Termino (Certificate of Deposit)
CPI           -  Consumer Price Index
DNP           -  DeparLamento de Planeacion Nacional
(National Planning Department)
DRI           -  Programa de Desarrollo Rural Integrado
(Inte6rated Rural Development Program)
FEDERACAFE    -  National Coffee Federation
FFAP          -  Fondo Financiero Agropecuario
(Agricultural Financing Fund)
HIMAT         -  Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y
Adecuacion de Tierras
(Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land
Improvement)
ICA           -  Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
(Colombian Agricultural Institute)
!DB           -  Inter-American Development Bank
IDZMA         -  Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecuario
(Agricultural Marketing Institute)
INCORA        -  Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria
(Agrarian Reform Institute)
INDERENA      -  Institutc Nacional de Recursos Naturales Renovables
(National Institute for henewable Natural Resources)
ISE           -  Inversion Sustitutiva del Encaje
(Reserve Replacement Investment)
OPSA          -  Oficina de Planemiento del Sector Agropecuario
(Agricultural Sector Planning Office)
PRODESARROLLO - Program for the Development and Diversification of Coffee
Growing Areas
RFMSS         -  Rural Financial Markets Sector Study
TAP           -  T:ade and Agricultural Policy Loan
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PROJECT YEAR
January 1 - December 31



Ka WVUL US ONLY
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITIlTIONAL DEVELOKtRNT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
L.   LOAN AND PROJECT SUM...... .....................................        1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .........................................       3
The Role of Agriculture in the National Economy.................    3
Agricultural 4................................................6..    4
Caja Agraria .............6                                            5
Government Strategy for the Agricultural Sector.................    8
Bank Role in the Sector           ........................................    8
Experience with Past Projects           ..................................    8
III. THE PROJECT ...................      .................................    9
Project Oii .....                                                      9
Project 9............................................  6666666666    9
Project Description*. .............................................o.......  9
Longer-Term Strategy for Caja's Development.*****....**. ......6      11
Project                               Css....,11
.........................   66666  6666666666  666  66666  66666666  666  66666  12
P r o c  u     r     e     m     e     n     t      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12
Disbursements. 66666666666 66 666666666 66666 6666 66 66 66 6666    12
Accounts and Audit                                                    13
Project Implemen-:ation,,,eooo,,oos.eeseeeees    13
Monitoring and Evaluation....a   l    u    a    ti................on. 6.6......    13
Benefits, Justification and Risks ..............................      14
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .........................    14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Colombia in July 1986. The mission comprised Messrs./Mmes. W. B. Johnson
(Mission Leader), A. Herlihy (Financial Analyst), F.M. Schorosch (Loan
Officer), M. Grossman (Consultant, Banking Specialist) and E. Diaz-Bonilla
(Consultant, Economist).
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance 
Lof their offcial duties. Its contents may rot otherwise be dischose without World Bankt authorization.|



- ii -
SCHEDULES AND ANNfEXES
Schedule A - Terms of Reference - Lead Consultant
Schedule B - Statement  n Caja Agraria's Objectives and Strategies
ANNEX 1 - Agricultural Credit in Colombia
Table I - Total, Rural and Agricultural Portfolio and Loans, 1974-85
2 - Outstanding Agricultural Portfolio by Financial Intermediary,
1974-85
3 - Resources Mobilized by Agricultural Baniks and Total Agricultural
Portfolio, 1974-83
4 - Compositioa of Deposits, 1974-85
5 - Statistics on Forced Investments, FFAP and Caja Agraria
6 - FFAP 1inancing Sources, 1974-85
7 - Major Aural Credit Lines - Effective Interest Rates, 1974-86
8 - Loan Interest Rates - Caja Agraria
9 - Loan Interest Rates - FFAP
Graph I - Movement of CDT Rate and CPI, 1974-86
ANNEX 2 - Caja Agraria
Table 1 - Financial Statements - Balance Sheet, 1982-1985
2 -                      - Income Statement, 1982-1985
3 - Projected Financiai Statements - Balance Sheet, 1986-1992
4-                                  - Income Statement, 1986-1992
5 - Ratio of Savings to New Credit
6 - Rural Lending by Use
7   Overdue Portfolio Statistics
8 - Growth Statistics
9 - Key Indicators
Chart 1 - Organization Chart
ANNEX 3 - Project Tables
Table 1 - Project Costs - Branch Office Improvements
2 - Project Costs - Office Equipment
3 - Technical Assistance Program
4 - Training Program
5 Implementation Schedule
6   Disbursement Schedule
7 - Price Contingencies and Devaluation
Chart 1 - Project Organization
ANNEX 4 - Documents Available in the Project File
MAP: IBRD 20315 - Caja Agraria's Operations



COLONBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INS 2ITUTIONAL DFVEL PMENT PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero (Caja).
Guarantor:        Republic of Colombia.
Loan Amount:      US$15 million equivalent.
Terms:            17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project           The project is part of Colombia's strategy to
Description:      stimulate the growth of the agricultural sector, through,
inter alia, institutional reforms to upgrade and improve the
operational capacity of key public sector agencies. The
project aims at strengthening Caja, the main financial.
intermediary for agricultural credit in Colombia, thereby
helping to meet the rural sector's needs for financial
services in a more efficient manner. The project would
comprise consultant services, training, office equipment and
civil works to assist Caja in defining and implementing
measures to improve operational efficiency, reduce its loan
portfolio arrears, improve credit procedures, enhance its
capacity to mobilize resources using market mechanisms,
improve its accounting and management information systems,
and rationalize and improve its branch network. The main
project benefic is that Caja would become a more efficient,
competitive and self-sustaining financial intermediary.
Project Risks:   The major risk is that the institutional improvements sought
for Caja wV.hin the project might not be achieved in a time-
ly manner. To mitigate this risk, technical assistance and
traLuing are key features of the project to facilitate
implementation of the proposed improvements. Caja's
management is committed to the reforms being pursued through
the proposed project. Finally, Bank staff would carefully
monitor project implementation through close supervision and
a mid-term review.



-2-
Propect Cost:
Local      Forelgn      Total
-(US$ million)---
Technical Assistance                   1.6         1.7          3.3
Training                              0.8          0.2          1.0
Offite Equipment                      3.4          7.9         11.3
Branch Improvements                  11.7          1.9         13.6
Base Coat                            17.5         11.7         29.2
Contingencies:
Physical                           1.5         1.0           2.5
Price                              1.0         2.3           3.3
Total Project Cost                   20.0         15.0         35.0
Financing Plan:
Caj a                                20.0         -            20.0
Bank Loan                             -           15.0         15.0
Total                           20.0        15.0         35.0
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FiscaW Year
1988       1989       1990       1991       1992
-----(US$ million) ---           ---  -
Annual                     2.4         1.2        5.5        5.5        0.4
Cumulative                 2.4        3.6        9.1        14.6       15.0
Economic Rate
of Return:               N.A.
MAP: IDRD No. 20315.



- 3 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Role of _qriculture in the National Econow
2.01      Agriculture is the most Important sector in the Colombian economy,
accounting for about 22X of GDP. Within the sector, crop and livestock
products contribute about 52% and 432, respectively, to the gross value of
production, with the remainder coming from forestry, fishing and other rural
activities. Agriculture provides employment for t.vo million people, or a
,'uarter of the national labor force. The country is a net agricultural
exporter.  Agriculture's share in total registered merchandise exports
fluctuated between 67X and 75X in recent years.  Of tne total value of
exports of US$3.8 billion in 1985, coffee accounted for 471, followed by fuel
oil (11%), bananas (5X) and coal (41). Agricultural imports, iainly wheat,
soybeans and fish products, represent 7X of Colombia's total registered
imports (US$4.7 billion), for 1985.
2.02      The recent performance of the sector has been heavily affected by
macroeconomic policy shortcomings and by external events. During the 1970s,
agriculture expanded at more than 4% p.a., due to the dynamism of non-coffee
agricultural exports in the first half of the decade and to the coffee boom
during the second. By contrast, during 1981-83 coffee exports were greatly
affected by depressed international markets, while non-coffee exports showed
a negative growth rate, resulting in sector growth of only 1.3X p.a. in
1980-84. In 1984 and 1985, coffee exports increased to close to the pre-1981
level to cover a large drop in world production due to an unusual frost in
Brazil. Factors contributing to the decline in agricultural exports and
sector performance in the early 1980s include: (a) unfavorable international
conditions for agricultural commodities exported by Colombia (coffee, sugar,
cotton, beef); (b) macroeconomic and sector-specific policies that imposed
export restrictions for some commodities and import restrictions for agricul-
tural inputs; (c) reduction of government investments in agriculture since
the mid-1970s; (d) a rapid increase of the real agricultural minimum wage
rate, which contributed to a rise in production costs; and (e) a shortage of
agricultural credit, particularly for small, and medium scale farming.
2.03      Agricultural Base.  Of the country's total area (112 million ha),
83% (93 million ha) has no or limited crop potential and is used mainly for
grazing and forestry. Of the remainder, 13 million ha are only suitable for
non-mechanized agriculture; 3.8 million ha could be used for modern agricul-
ture after providing some type of land reclamation works; and only 1.7 mil-
lion ha are suitable for modern mechanized agriculture without restrictions.
Structural problems in agriculture are the uneven land distribution and poor
land use (some good crop land is used for extensive grazing and marginal land
for cultivation). Countryside violence is widespread in newly colonized
areas. The lack of clear land title in these areas acts as a disincentive to
private investment, as does the decline in agricultural profitability caused
by a decrease in commodity prices relative to the cost of agricultural
inputs.
2.04      Sector Institutions.  The Ministry of Agriculture has primary res-
ponsibility for the formulation and execution of public sector agricultural



- 4 -
policy and programs, and within it the Agricultural Sector Planning Office
(OPSA) has the responsibility for programming and coordinating sector activi-
ties. OPSA maintains a close relationship with the National Planning
Department (DNP). Other lnstitutlans under the Ministry of Agriculture are
concerned with research and extension (Colombian Agricultural Institute,
ICA), marketing of crops (Agricultural Markcting Institute, IDEMA), land
distribution (Agrarian Reform Institute, INCORA), environmental protection
(National Institute for Renewable Natural Resources, INDERENA) and irrigation
and drainage works, hydrology and meteorology (Colombian Institute for
Hydrology, Meteorology and Land Improvement, HIMAT). In addition to these
public sector Institutions, producer associations provide a wide range of
services to their members and are a dynamic force in agricultural develop-
ment. Agricultural credit institutions are discussed below.
Agricultural Credit
2.05      The flow of institutional rural credit--comprising lending for
agriculture, marketing and processing activities--grew annually by about 3X
in real terms from 1974 to 1985. 1/ Over the same period, the flow of agri-
cultural credit alone grew by about 5% p.a. in real terms, but declined in
the early 1980s and in general has not kept pace with the growth of cradit to
other sectors.
2.06      In terms of the total agricultural portfolio (US$1.4 billion in
1984), the Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Credit Bank (Caja) is the most
important financial intermediary, accounting for 562 of the portfolio in
1984; the other agricultural banks (Banco Ganadero and Banco Cafetero, both
public sector banks) provide 282, and the private commercial banks and fin"n-
cial corporations, 16Z. In recent years, Caja's share in total lending has
been increasing; and it continues to be the major source of credit to small
farmers. Banco Cafetero and Banco Ganadero are also channeling an increasing
share of institutional credit to the sector, because of legal requirements
that they maintain a high percentage of their portfolio in agriculture (502
and 702, respectively). The importance of the commercial banks and financial
corporations in the financing of the agricultural sector has declined some-
what, due to relatively low profitability. Based on data from a recent
survey of four rural municipalities. credit from non-institutional sources
(friends, moneyleaders, etc.) may provide about a quarter of the value of
amounts lent.
2.07      Successive governments have intervened in financial markets to sup-
ply institutional credit to the agricultural sector at below-market rates,
through forced investments, subsidized interest rates, and directed credit
allocations. The system of forced investments is administered by the Junta
Monetaria within parameters mandated by the Congress. The system of forced
investments requires banking institutions to invest in certain types of low-
yielding bonds in proportion to their portfolio and/or deposits. In 1985,
56% of the funds generated through forced investment were allocated to
agricultural credit--47X went directly to the Agricultural Financing Fund
(FFAP), which is the primary source of funding for agricultural credit in
Colombia. The balance, 9%, went directly to Caja. All institutions lending
1/   See Annex 1 for a more complete discussion of agricultural credit.



- 5 -
for agriculture have access to FFAP and in 1985, Caja received 38% of FFAP
funds.
2.08      While the system of forced investments has allowed large amounts of
funds to be made available for directed lending, it has substantially lowered
incentives to mobilize rural financial savings, and increased depend,nce on
non-market mechanisms to obtain financial resources.  I. has placed serious
pressure on the profitability and liquidity of the banking system and does
not foster optimal allocation of the financial resources it mobilizes.
Progress has been achieved in the critical area of Interest rates, which have
been increased, in some cases, to levels close to market rates. This has
improved the profitability of the banking system and the allocation of
financial resources. Optious for further 'Liberalization of the financial
system, including the use of more market-oriented mechanisms for financing
FFAP, continue to be an integral part of the Bank's macroeconomic dialogue
with the Colombian Government.
Caja Agraria
2.09      Caja is the leading agricultural credit institution in Colombia
(para. 2.06). Its role is to provide farmers, particularly smaller farmers,
with agricultural credit, agricultural itputs, insurance, and banking
services. 2/ However, its growing commercial business, primarily in the
urban centers, now constitutes 18X of its loan portfolio. As of December 31,
1985, Caja had outstanding loans to some 500,000, mostly small-scale, farmers
(almost half of all farmers) and to 90,000 other clients.
2.10      Until the early 1970s, Caja was considered a relatively efficient
institution, but since then it has developed administrative and staffing
problems. Because of Caja's wide geographic coverage through Its 878
branches, it is used by the Government to provide access to credit for small
farmers and to provide concessionary credits after natural disasters and, in
remote areas, for political stabilization purposes; the latter kinds of
credit usually have poor repayment records. While Caja has an able General
Manager, some of its senior managers, who were political appointees, lacked
banking expertise. Other staff in general are qualified but suffer from lack
of training in modern banking and business techniques. The Government is
also involved in CaJa's wage negotiations and in financing the losses that
have resulted from the negotiated staff benefits package.
2.11      Caja has problems in the following areas:
(a) Efficiency. Caja's inefficiencies as reflected by a 13 percentage
point spread, arise from its cumbersome procedures and high staf-
fing costs. Caja's procedures are determined by its need to comply
with a complex set of regulations laid down by Government. Ihe
number of reports and approvals for all types of transactions is
excessive, ana farmers experience high transaction costs, as well
as uneven credit practices, such as delays in disbursements, and
2/   More information on Caja's operations and financial performance is
contained in Annex 2.



- 6 -
unexpected cancellation of loans to small farm!rs. Branches are
organized by service, which limits cross selling opportunities.
The main organizational issue is the insufficient delegation of
decision-making to the field offices.  Caja's high staffing costs
are largely the result of its present procedures, lack of automa-
tion, and a benefits package that is high compared to those offered
by the private banking sector. Caja has 13,000 employees, and
staffino is especially excessive at headquarters (2,110 employees,
or 16% of staff) and in the large regional branch offices, which
are the major factors in Caja's high operating costs. Generally,
Caja's staff is not customer-service oriented and makes little
effort to compete (particularly for savings). FLirmal training in
technical areas has only been available for a few mid-management
positions. On the other hand, senior managers' remuneration is
relatively low, which h'as increased turnover and hampered
administrative continuity.
(b) Quality of Portfolio and Credit Procedures. Caja's portfolio is
characterized by high loan arrears, which have increased from 12%
to 17% of total portfolio between 1974 and 1985. There is no
asset/liability management, no loan review function and no separa-
tion between the functions of loan promotion, administration and
analysis. Credit procedures are complex: they suffer from exces-
sive regimentation in the administration of some 75 credit pro-
grams, each with its own eligibility criteria, terms and monitoring
systems, and the present credit manual emphasizes compliance with
regiulations.
(c)  Mobilization of Financial Savings.  Although Caja's total deposits
have grown at 6.5% p.a. in real terms since i980 and savings at
0.7% p.a., the growth in total deposits of other financial inter-
mediaries, including official banks, has averaged over 10% p.a. in
the same period. On the other hand, the stock of FFAP funds
rediscounted through Caja has grown by 14% p.a. in teal terms over
the same period. Caja's relatively weak performance in mobilizing
deposits results primarily from its inability to offer savings
instruments that are competitive with those available in the market
due to the high administrative costs it incurs in its operations.
(d) Support Systems. Most work is done manually. Data processing
equipment is used at the head office but not in the branch offices.
Because of cumbersome manual procedures, branch personnel spend too
much time on administrative functions (over 50%) and not enough on
providing services to customers and securing new business. As a
result, loan processing is lengthy and not responsive to the
borrower's needs. Planning concentrates on the allocation of
credit resources, extends for only six months or a year, and is not
linked in a systematic way to budgeting. The management informa-
tion system does not provide proper information in an efficient and
timely manner. Major problems with Caja's accounting are the
result of inadequate systems for aggregating and transmitting basic
accounting information from the branch network to headquarters. As
a consequence, Caja's management cannot obtain timely reports on
its liquidity position, collection ratios, or reliable profitabi-
lity figures for its branches, product lines or customers.



(e)  Branch Network.  Caja maintains a branch network to allow it to
reach large numbers of small farmers in remote areas and to provide
the geographic coverage required by Government. This overextended
network contributes to the institution's high operating costs.
Moreover, many branches are operating at a loss based on corrent
practices in allocating costs between the main office and the
branches. In addition, many of the branches are old and in poor
physical condition due to lack of adequate maintenance. Often the
physiLal layout of branches is inefficient and allows customers
into the employees' work areas to transact business. Much of the
required basic equipmeat such as fans, air conditioning and office
equipn,ent, and in some cases electric generation equipment for
lighting, is non-existent or not functional. Many employees have
to provide their own calculators for their work.
2.12      Financial Perfonnance.  As of December 31, 1985, Caja's balance
sheet had assets oft US$1.4 billion, which comprised loans to customers (58%);
funds to be received from Government (21%); and land, buildings and equipment
(7%).  The mati  liahilities on the balance sheet were customers' savings and
checking accounts (50%); funds owed to FFAP and Benco de la Republica (BOR),
the central hank (2b%); and the amount of funds ti-at need to be set aside for
employee pensionis (18%).  Total income in 1985 was US$273 million with the
major expenses of interest oni deposits (US$109 million), personnel expenses
(US$101 milLion) arid other exrenses (US$62 million); a small profit of
US$1.1 million was reported, the first in over 10 years.
2.13      Since  1974, Caja's growth in lending, in terms of agricultural loan
portfolio, has averaged 5.9% p.a. in real terms, substantially above
the rate of growth of the country's total abricultural portfolio (3.2% p.a.),
reflecting its access to FFAP's funds. Income has grown at 8.1% p.a. since
1975 in real terms, bi,t has been more than offset by the growth in interest
expense (9.65 p.a.) and personnel expenses (6.8% p.a.).
2.14      Looking at more recent trends, Caja's total portfolio growth has
accelerated to 10% p.a. since 1980, with commercial lending doubling its 9%
share of total portfolio. The increased portfolio growth has been supported
by growth in use of FFAP funds (16.9% p.a.) and in deposits (6.5% p.a.).
Total income growth increased to 10% p.a. while the growth in personnel
expenses has fallen Lo 3.3% p.a.  The high growth rate in Caja's interest
expense (15.7% p.a.) reflects the growing proportion of customer savings in
certificates of deposit.
2.15      In spite of a 13 percentage point spread, Caja fails to cover its
costs mainly due to its high personnel and administrative costs. It had
accumulated losses ot about US$300 million by 1983; the small profit in 1985
is projected to change to losses in 1986 and 1987.  If present trends con-
tinue, it is expected that staff costs will continue to grow, at least at
about 3% p.a. in real terms, and overdue loans will remain at the current
h'gh level of 171.  Moreover, in the absence of a major effort to mobilize
financial resource- using maiket mechanisms, agricultural lending can only
continue to grow at the historic rate of 5.9% p.a. in real terms if funds
from forced inve'-tments continue to grow and Caja continues not to fund its
employee pension funid, for which its accrued liability was US$230 million at
the end of 1985.



- a -
Government Strategy for the Agricultural £ector
2.16       Direct government involvement in agricultural production has been
practically non-existent, and in support activities it has been lessened due
to the well-rganized private sector producers associations, which provide a
wide range of services to their members. However, given its importance in
terms of foreign exchange earnings, overall economic growth and employment,
agriculture is a focus of the Government's satategy to stimulate the growth
of productive sectors. Agricultural productivity and production are being
encouraged through sectoral policy changes that: (a) rationalize trade and
price intervention policies in agriculture; (b) improve the functioning of
rural credit markets; and (c) strengthen the institutional capacity of key
public sector agencies. The Government's agricultural sector investment
program, which places heavy emphasis on agricultural technology generation
and diffusion, and on irrigation development, is expected to lead to
increased on-farm investments and highet agricultural input use. Caja would
have to increase its importart role in rural credit markets, particularly
with regard to small farmers.
Bank Role in the Sector
2.17      Since 1966, the Bank has made 16 agricultural loans to Colombia
totalling US$577.0 million equivalent.  Three of these loans have been for
agricultural credit; two for livestock developmenc; two for colonization;
four for irrigation/drainage; two to support the Government's rural develop-
ment program; and one each for a pilot watershed management project, an agri-
cultural research project, and an agricultural diversification project in
coffee areas. Most of the projects have focused on increasing the producti-
vity, incomes and welfare of small farmers; all except the last one were
executed by public sector institutions. In addition, the US$250 million TAP
Loan was approved in March 1986 which seeks broad agricultu.al credit policy
reforms.
2.18      The Bank's strategy is to maintain the focus on the needed reform
of the rural credit system and on the institutions which operate it. This
project would concentrate on rebuilding Caja's institu-ional capacity to a
level commensurate with its importance to Colombia's agricultural sector.
eencewithPastrocts
2.19      Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued for six of the
projects (Loans 502-CO, Atlantico Irrigation; 624-CO, Agricultural Credit;
651-CO, Second Livestock Development; 739-CO, Caqueta Land Colonization;
849-CO, SecorJ Atlantico Development; and 1118-CO, Caqueta Rural Settle-
ment II). An Impact Evaluation Report on the Atlantico Irrigation Project
was issued in 1982.  These projects were by and large successful.  The main
lesson learned from implementt,ion of the Second Agricultural Credit Project
was that policy changes affecting the whole agricultural credit system are
unlikely to be adopted on the basis of an agricultural credit project alone.
This lesson has been reflected in subsequent Bank lending strategy, which is
pursuing broad reforms through policy lending (the TAP loan) and comple-
mentary project lending (the proposed project) pursuing institutional
strengthening.



- 9 -
III. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
3.01      In March 1980, Caja requested Bank support for an agricultural
credit project for production and small-scale agroindustries, but chose rPt
to proceed with the project because of the reforms such a project would have
pursued. In early 1985, Caja proposed an institutional development operation
to improve its internal efficiency. The proposed project was prepared by the
Bank and Caja with assistance from FAO/CP. It was appraised by the Bank in
July lq86, and negotiations took place in Washington, from Decemberl6-18,
1987. The Colombian delegation was led by Dr. Carlos Villamil Chaux.
Project Objectives
3.02      The main objective of the project would be to strengthen Caja, the
main financial intermediary for agricultural credit in Colombia, thereby
helping to meet the agricultural sector's credit needs in a more efficient
manner. The project would help Caja to become a more modern, self-sustaining
financial intermediary, enhance its capacity to mcbilize resources, and lower
its costs of financial intermediation. Caja would implement the project
through components comprising branch improvements, office equipment, training
and technical assistance.
Project Description
3.03      Branch Improvements.  The prolect would include US$16.0 million to
cover the cost of a program to begin the task of renovating and modernizing
Caja's many branches, including civil works and basic building equipment and
furniture. The entire cost of this component, which would involve mainly
local cost financing, would be borne by Caja.
3.04      Office Equipment.  The project would provide US$14.3 million to
cover the cost of equipment; the loan would provide US$11.9 million (79% of
the loan amount) for this purpose. The equipment would be of two type3:
(a) data processing equipment, including personal com  ters and calculators,
communications and other office equipment needed to introduce improved
accounting, management and credit processing systems; and (b) overhead
projectors and video equipment needed to implement the training program.
3.05      Training.  The project would provide US$1.0 million to finance a
training program which would help improve the management, technical skills,
and customer service orientation of Caja's personnel (Annex 3). The loan
would provide US$0.7 million (5% of the loan amount) for this purpose. The
training program for the first year of the project was agreed at negotiations
During negotiations, Caja provided assurances that the detailed annual
training programs would be submitted to the Bank for approval at least two
months prior to the start of each subsequent year of the project
(para. 4.01 (a)).



- 10 -
3.Ob      Technical Assistance.  The project would provide US$3.7 million to
finance an estimated 370 staff-months of local and foreign consultants
(Annex 3); the loan would finance US$2.4 million (16% of the loan amount).
Terms of reference for a lead consultant (see Schedule A for TOR) were agreed
et negotiations. As a condition of effectiveness, Caja would select the lead
consultant to assist the Project Director (paras. 3.23 and 4.02 (a)). The
consultants would assist Caja with work in branch improvements, credit
procedures, portfolio management, especially arrears reduction, resource
mobilization, organization, personnel budget and management information and
accounting systems (Annex 3). The various activities to be included in the
ToRs of consultants were agreed at negotiations. During n?gotiations, Caja
provided assurances that all consultants would be employe,1 in accordance with
Bank Guidelines, and with qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.01 (b)).
3.07      The above inputs would be directed at strengthening Caja and
addressing its key problems (para. 2.11) by defining and implementing
measures to: (a) improve efficien-y; (b) improve the quality of the portfolio
by reducing arrears and improving credit procedures; (c) enhance its capacity
to mobilize financial savings using market mechanisms; (d) improve support
systems; (e) rationalize its branch netwuri; and (f) prepare a longer-term
strategy for developing Caja into a self-sustaining financial intermediary,
as discussed in paras. 3.08-13 below.
3.08      Efficiency.  In order to improve efficiency, Ca-a provided
assurances during negotiations that the following efficiency targets would be
met (para. 4.01(c)):
(a)  throughout the life of the project, total administrative costs
would be held below the 1986 level in real terms, unless otherwise
agreed with the Bank;
(b)  annual administrative costs as a percentage of loan portfolio would
decrease from 18.3% at end 1986 to 17.6% at end 19£), 16.3% at end
1988, 14.9% at end 1989 and 13.7% at end 1990; and
(c) branch office staff as a percentage of total staff would increase
at a rate of 2 percentage points p.a., starting in 1988, from the
present 84% of total staff to 90% by the end of 1990.
In order to help meet the above targets, Caja introduced in January 1987 and
agreed at negotiations to: (i) maintain a remuneration package for employees
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.01 (d)). This remuneration package should
enable Caja to attract and retain qualified senior staff and to align the
terms of employment for all of Caja's employees with those in the hanking
industry; and (ii) by Jui.e 30, 1988, design, and thereafter
implement,improved systems satisfactory to the Bank for simriplifying Caja's
internal procedures and decision-making processes (para. 4.01(c)).
3.09      Quality of Portfolio and Credit Procedures.  Caja would provide
assurances during negotiations that loan arrears, expressed as a percentage
of loan portfoll , would be reduced to meet the following targets: 16% by end



- 11 -
1987, 152 by end 1988, 142 by end 1989 and 12% by end 1990. In order to help
Caja meet these targets Caja provided further asaurances during negotiations
that: by June 30, 1988, It would review the loan portfolio, and thereafter
Implement improved portfolio management satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.01
(c)).
3.10      Mobilization of Financial Savings.  In order to increase the amount
of financial savings mobilized by Caja using market mechanisms, Caja provided
assurances during negotiations that it would meet the following targets in
the real annual growth rates of its deposits (excluding interbank deposits):
7.02 in 1988, 7.52 in 1989 and 8.02 in 1990 (para. 4.01. (c)). Caja would
achieve this through introduction of more attractive savings instruments and
improved customer service.
3.11      Support Systems.  In order to improve support systems Caja provided
assurances during negotiations that, by June 30, 1988, it would design, and
implement thereafter, improved systems, acceptable to the Bank, in
accounting, management information, and data processing (para. 4.01 (c)).
3.12      Branch Rationalization.  In order to reduce the fin3ncial burden to
Caja of maintaining unprofitable branches, Caja provided assurances during
negotiations that, by December 31, 1988, Caja would prepare, and thereafter
implement, a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, to rationalize its
branch network, including a program to reduce the number of, or increase the
efficiency of, branches showing continuous losses (para. 4.01 (e)).
Longer-Term Strategy for Caja's Development
3.13      While there is a general concensus between Government and Caja on
Caja's prime role of supplying banking services, including credit to the
small farmer, there are some areas where there is not full agreement: for
example, the extent of Caja's non-banking activities and the level of urban
banking business in Caja's overall portfolio. To help direct the longer-term
development of Caja under the project, Caja would, as a condition of
effectiveness, prepare a statement, satisfactory to the Government and the
Bank, on Caja's objectives and strategies for achieving them
(para. 4.02 (b)). A draft statement is attached as Schedule B. In addition,
as a means of building on the institutional strengthening supported under the
project, assurances were obtained during negotiations that, by December 31,
1988: (a) Caja would also prepare, and implement thereafter, a plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for it to become a financially self-sustaining
institution (para. 4.01 (f)); and (b) Government would take all necessary
actions to enable Caja to prepare such a plan and to subsequently carry it
out (para. 4.01 (m)).
Project Costs
3.14      Total project costs are estimated at US$35 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$15 million, or 43Z. The project cost was calculated
using 1987 prices. Physical contingencies of 10% were included on office



- 12 -
office equipment and branch improvements. Price contingercies for all
components were based on the Bank's projections for international and local
inflation and for the changes in local currency exchange rates (Annex 3).
Physical and price contingencies total US$5.8 million.
Financing
3.15      The Bank loan of US$15 million would finance 43% of the total
project cost, equivalent to IGO% of foreign costs. The balance of financing
(US$20 million or 57% of the total project cost) would be provided by
Caja. 3/
3.16      The Bank loan would be made to Caja with the Government acting as
guarantor of the loan.  Caja would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Procurement
3.17      For orders for office equipment of over US$300,000 (estimated to
total US$9.2 million), internationial competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Guidelines would be followe6; and it was agreel at negotiations that
contracts under US$300,000 (estimated to total US$5.1 million) would be
awarded based on local procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Without limitation upon the provisions of the Guidelines, in respect of
procurement of goods and services: no requirement of local agents for foreign
bidders shall be made; no prior registration of foreign bidders shall be
required; no provision regarding minimum number of bidders shall be applied;
bids for goods shall be evaluated on a C.I.F. basis; freight costs quoted
freely by each bidder shall be used for purposes of bid evaluation; and
awards shall be made to the lowest evaluated bidders. During negotiations,
Caja provided assurances that: (a) it would follow procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank; and (b) for all contracts for goods of US$300,000 or
more, the Bank's prior approval would be required before invitations to bid
are issued and before contracts are awarded (para. 4.01 (g)).
Disbursements
3.18      Disbursements would take place over a five year period (Annex 3,
Table 6). Since there is no relevant standard disbursement profile for this
type of project the disbursement schedule is based on the esti'nated timing of
expenditures plus a lag for completion of disbursements and adj -ed for the
initial deposit in the Special Account. Contracts valued at US$300,000 or
less would be submitted under Statement of Expenditure. Disbursement of
funds would be made against supporting documentation, acceptable to the Bank,
and cover 100% of the foreign cost and 65% of the local cost of office
equipment (US$11.9 million), training (US$0.7 million) and consultants
(US$2.4 million).
3.19      To facilitate the availability of funds, Caja would establish a
Special Account with an initial deposit by the Bank, payable on receipt and
approval of a withdrawal application from the Borrower, in an amount
sufficient to cover the maximum estimated expenditure over a four-month
3/   Financing by Caja Agraria would be reduced to US$19.4 million in the
eventuality the Japanese Government approves a cofinancing grant of
US$0.6 million for technical assistance which was requested on
December 28, 1987.



- 13 -
period. During negotiations, Caja provided assurances that it would
establish avd maintain such a Special Account in BOR, in U.S. dollars, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and with an initial allocation
of US$2.0 million to cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures under
the project (para. 4.01 (h)). Replenishment of the Special Account would be
made upon receipt and appFoval of the Borrower's withdrawal applications.
3.20      The Bank will allow retroactive financing of up to US$1 million for
expenditures made after January 1, 1988 to cover technical assistance for
project activities and office ec"iipment necessary to allow implementation to
begin immediately after loan effectiveness.
Accounts and Audit
3.21      At negotiations, Caja presented reports on steps taken to resolve
the auditor's qualifications on Caja's financial statements for FY85. As a
condition of effectiveness, Caja would present its financial statements for
FY86 audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank
(para. 4.02 (c)).
3.22      Caja would establish and maintain project accounts in accordance
with consistently applied, sound accounting principles and methods. During
negotiations, Caja provided assurances that: (a) project accounts, SOEs and
Caja's financial statements would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (b) audit reports would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the close of each fiscal year; and (c) Caja would
include, not later than December 31, 1988 and every year thereafter as part
of its annual financial statements, a report on the profit and loss situation
of each of its branches, including an analysis of the reasons for any losses
and a reasoned assessment on whether such losses are of a temporary or
co.atinuous nature (para. 4.01(i)).
Project Implementation
3.23      Caja would be responsible for implementing the project.  The
project would be managed by a Project Director, assisted by a consultant,
reporting directly to Caja's General Manager and supported by a Deputy
Project Director and senior level managers as required (Organization Chart,
Annex 3). Project implementation would cover branch and credit procedures,
including reduction of portfolio arrears, human resources, including training
and organization, accounting system and management information system
improvements, and data processing. There would be a manager responsible for
a project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (para. 3.24). Caja appointed a
Project Director, acceptable to the Bank, prior to negotiations. Appointment
of the Deputy Project Director, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition
of effectiveness (para. 4.02 (d)). During negotiations, Caja provided
assurances that it would maintain a project implementing unit with staff,
functions and organizational structure satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.01 (j)).
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.24      A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would maintain records on project
implementation. Within one month after the end of each Caja fiscal year, a



- 14 -
project progress report would be sent to the Bank for comment. A mid-term
review by the Government, the Bank and Caja would be undertaken by June 30,
1989, to evaluate all aspects of the project, including progress with
institutional strengthening and achievement of the agreed targets, and to
agree on any necessary mid-course corrections. During negotiations, Caja
providedassurances that such a mid-term review would be held
(para. 4.01 (k)). During negotiations, Caja also provided assurances that it
would, by June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1991 furnish to the Bank the conclusions
of a public opinion survey carried out under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, on the quality of Caja's services rendered to rural clients
(para. 4.01 (1)).
Benefits, Justification and Risks
3.25      Benefits and Justification.  Under the project, Caja would become a
more efficient, self-sustaining financial intermediary, providing better
banking services and with lower transaction costs and more able to mobilize
financial resources. By the end of the project, Caja's deposits are expected
to have grown by 32% in real terms over the 1986 level, and loan arrears to
have been reduced by 29%, from 17% of portfolio in 1986 to 12% in 1990. With
no growth in annual administrative costs, productivity, in terms of annual
administrative costs as a percentage of total loan portfolio, is expected to
improve by 25%. In addition, annual administrative costs as a percentage of
total operating revenue would fall from 70% in 1985 to 47% by 1990. As a
result of the above, with the project, net profits would be reported in 1991
(US$15.4 million) and 1992 (US$26.2 million). Without the project, losses
would continue, accumulating to US$262 million by 1992. The incremental net
income to Caja, which should total US$290 million by 1992, would have a NPV
of US$160 million when discounted at the Opportunity Cost of Capital (see
Annex 2).
3.26      Risks.  The major risk is that the institutional reforms sought for
Caja might not be achieved in a timely manner due to the size of Ca-A 'nd its
long established institutional structure. Technical assistance and training
are key features of the project which have been included to facilitate imple-
mentation of the proposed improvements. Caja's management is committed to
the reforms being pursued under the project. Finally, Bank staff would
carefully monitor project implementation through close supervision and a
mid-term review.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached with Caja (Loan
Agreement) and ti.e Government (Guarantee Agreement) on the following:
Loan Agreement:
(a)  Caja would submit the detailed annual training programs to the Bank
for apprcval at least two months prior to the start of each
subsequent year of the project (para. 3.05);
(b)  Caja would employ all consultants in accordance with Bank
Guidelines, and with qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.06);



- 1S -
(c) Caja would take all actions necessary to comply with the
performance and operational targets agreed upon between the Bank
and the Borrower in paras. 3.08 to 3.12.
(d) Caja would maintain a remuneration package for employees
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.08);
(e) by December 31, 1988, Caja would prepare, and thereafter implement,
a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, to rationalize its
branch network (para. 3.12);
(f) by December 31, 1988, Caja would prepare, and thereafter implement,
a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for it to become a financially
self-sustaining institution (para. 3.13);
(g)  Caja wsuld follow procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank;
and for all contracts for goods of US$300,000 or more, the Bank's
prior approval would be required before invitations to bid are
issued and before contracts are awarded (para. 3.17);
(h) Caja would establish and maintain a Special Account in Banco de la
Republica, in U.S. dollars, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, and with an initial allocation of US$2.0 million to
cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures under the project
(para. 3.19);
(i)  Caja would: (i) have its project accounts, SQEs and financial
statements audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank; (ii) submit audit reports to the Bank within six months
of the close of each fiscal year; and (iii) include not later than
December 31, 1988 and every year thereafter, a report on the profit
and loss situation of each of its branches (para. 3.22);
(j) Caja would maintain a project implemaenting unit with staff, func-
tions, and organizational structure satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.23);
(k) by June 30, 1989, a mid-term review would be undertaken by the
Government, the Bank anJ Caja to evaluate progress of the institu-
tional strengthening eLd achievement of the agreed targets, and to
agree on any necessary mid-course corrections (para. 3.24); and
(1`) by June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1991, furnish to the Bank the
conclusions of a public opinion survey carried out under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank on the quality of Caja's
services rendered to rural clients (para. 3.24).
Guarantee Agreement
(m)  the Government would take all necessary actions to enable Caja, by
December 31, 1988, to prepare, and implement thereafter, a plan,
satisfactory to the Bank,for Caja to become a financially
self-sustaining institution (pa a. 3.13).



- 16 -
4.02      The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  selection of the Lead Consultant (para. 3.06);
(b)  preparation by Caja of a statement, satisfactory to the Government
and the Bank, on its objectives and strategies for achieving them
(para. 3.13);
(c)  presentation by Caja of its financial statements for FY86 audited
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.21); and
(d)  appointment of the Deputy Project Director acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.23).
4.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan to Caja of US$15 million equivalent; the terms would be 17 years,
including a 4 year grace period, at the standard variable interest rate.



- 17 -
Schedule A
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference - Lead Consultant
Position Description
The lead consultant would report directly to the Project Director
and would assist and guide him with pre-effectiveness activities as well as
project implementation as follows:
Prior to Loan Effectiveness
- preparation of terms of reference for the consultants who will
work on branch development and credit procedures, organization
and management information, personnel development and training,
and data processing.
- preparation of a detailed work program for project implementation
which would include, inter alia, staffing, scheduling and
training.
- preparation of terms of reference for studies to be undertaken
during implementation.
During Project Implementation
- assist with preparation of studies on loan portfolio, branch
rationalization and credit procedures, and staff remuneration
package;
- coordination of overall program of project activities;
- evaluation and selection of consultants;
- assessment of performance of consultants; and
- assessment of proposals for institutional strengthening.
Qualifications
The lead consultant would have an MBA or equivalent, with at least
10 years experience at a senior level in the field and a proven record in
managing similar restructuring schemes in financial intermediaries. He
should have up-to-date knowledge of bank dynamics and information systems, as
well as proven ability to transfer methodologies and technologies and to
manage people of diverse backgrounds in large organizations.
The lead consultant should have the ability to work and communicate
in Spanish, especially in a Latin American environment. He should also be
fluent in English. Knowledge of Colombian labor law is desirable.
Duration of Assignment: 40 months maximum.



- 18 -
Schedule B
Page I of 2
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Statement on Caja Agraria's Objectives and Strategies
Proposed Objectives for CaJa
1.        Over the medium term, Caja's objectives are to:
(a) provide a full range of banking and financial services, especially
to the rural population; and
(b) become a financially self-sustaining, efficient, autonomous insti-
tution following sound development banking practices.
Proposed Strategies
2.        To achieve the first objective of providing a full range of banking
and financial services, the following strategies will be implemented:
(a) Caja will expand its services with the aim of meeting the banking
and credit needs of the rural population it serves. These will
include, inter alia, rural credit, commercial lending and other
banking services, and mobilization of savings; and
(b) Caja will handle services contracted by Government--such as
disaster relief--provided they are carried out on a fully
reimbursed basis.
3.        To achieve the second objective of financial self-sufficiency, the
following strategies will be implemented:
(a) Caja will increase resource mobilization through improved financial
services and more attractive savings instruments, which will allow
it to phase out its dependence on subsidized funds generated from
forced investments, without constraining growth of credit;
(b) Caja will improve internal efficiency, which when combined with
growth and better customer service, will improve both net income
and resource mobilization;
(c) Caja will make significant improvements in staff utilization, auto-
mated systems and procedures;
(d) interest rates on both ±ending and deposits will increasingly be
established by the market;
(e) Caja will improve its credit procedures and collections with a view
to upgrade the quality of its lending and reduce the portfolio
arrears;



- 19 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
(f) Caja will recruit or train professionals whose background and
training emphasize both banking and rural credit. Caja will
develop Its personnel through improved staff selection, expanded
staff training and promotion based on merit; and
(g) Caja will have full responsibility for staff recruitment, promotion
and dismissal.



-20 -                        Page   of 14
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit in Colombia
1.        This annex provides a broad picture of agri ultural credit in
Colombia, including the forced investment mechanism.  /  It is divided into
five sections, as follows: credit institutions and policy, volume of credit,
resources for institutional credit, interest rates, and a summary of the main
issues and recent policy improvements.
A. Credit Institutions and Polilcy
2.        The Colombian banking system, as of the end of 1984, comprised 21
private banks, 5 official (public) banks and 15 finance corporations, which
between them had about 3,000 branches and agencies throij-hout the country.
Of the five public banks, three are of special relevance to the agricultural
sector: Caja, Banco Cafetero (Coffee Bank) and Banco Ganadero (Livestock
Bank).
3.        The bankiag system is governed by the Junta Monetaria (Monetary
Board). The Junta Monetaria is chaired by the Minister of Finance and Public
Credit, and its members include the M:nister of Agriculture and the General
Manager of the Banco de la Republica (BOR).  It establishes policies regula-
ting loans and deposits, forced investmeuits and rediscounting. These
policies are then implemented by BOR, which acts as the central bank. BOR
also administers several special funds which channel credit to specific
sectors in accordance with government priorities. The agricultural fund,
FFAP, 2/ was created through Law 5 in March 1973, with the specific objective
of capitalizing the agricultural sector by rediscounting lcans made to
farmers by other financial intermediaries.
4.        There are three major types of formal financial intermediaries that
disburse credit to the rural and agricultural sectors. The first and most
important is CaIa, which accounted for 56% of the total agricultural port-
folio in 1984. / Caja was established in 1931 specifically to finance
farmers' subsistence, by granting credit for working capital until their
crops were harvested. Today it provides a large share of the financing for
crop and livestock farming, particularly that for small and medium-sized
farmers. The second type of institution comprises the banks, both public and
private, which together accounted for 38% of the total agricultural portfolio
in 1984.  The third type of institution is the finance corporations.  These
1/   This annex is based on the Rural Financial Markets Sector Study (RFMSS),
Bank Report No. 5860-CO, dated February 13, 1986.
2/   The Fondo FinanLiero Agropecuario (Agricultural Financing Fund).
3/   See Annex 2 for more information on Caja.



-21 -                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 14
provide a much smaller share of credit to the rural sector than either Caja
or the banks and accounted for 6% of the total agricultural portfolio in
1984. Credit needs are not being adequately met, as evidenced by Caja having
to close offices during the year due to lack of funds, PFAP often running out
of budget by September/October, and the estimate tnat non-institutional
credit--provided by moneylenders and friends who lend exclusively short-term,
primarily for family consumption--makes up an estimated 25% of rural credit
needs.
Rural Credit Policy
5.        In Colombia, the Government has thought that the agricultural
sector should be assigned priority access to credit resources under special
conditions and terms. This priority is based on agriculture's importance to
production, exports, income and employment; the risks inherent in agricul-
tural production; and the need to compensate for macroeconomic, crade and
exchange rate policies, which have often had a negative impact on the agri-
cultural sector. These policies have contributed to deteriorating internal
and external terms of trade and to high costs of agricultural production. In
addition, the Government has viewed directed credit as an instrument for
promoting production of certain crops and adoption of new technology, for
protecting or increasing the incomes of specific sectors of the farm popula-
tion, and for improving income distribution,
6.        The resulting agricultural credit policy has pursued three main
objectives: (a) to supply institutional credit to the agiicultural sector at
below market rates; (b) to improve the sector's income level, especially that
of small farmers; and (c) to stimulate agricultural production and producti-
vity. The main policy instruments used to pursue these objectives--forced
investment, subsidized interest rates, and directed credit allocations--are
discussed below.
7.        Forced Investment.  Forced investment pursues the objective of
ensuring a supply of credit to selected sectors at below market interest
rates. The forced investment mechanism operates by requiring financial
institutions to invest in certain types of bonds ("A" bonds) and other finan-
cial instruments with interest rates substantially below market. In 1985,
these investments totalled Col$ 70 billion. The required level of such
investment is expressed as a percentage of the institutions' portfolio and/or
deposits. Final credit beneficiaries with access to funds mobilized through
forced investment also pay interest at rates substantially below market.
8.        Another type of investment--reserve replacement investment (ISE),
--involves authorizing commercial banks and financial corporations to earmark
a percentage of their reserve requirements for the purchase of certain types
of bonds. In 1985 ISE investments totalled Col$ 82 billion. ISE is a form
of forced inv;stment in the sense that the only alternative is to leava funds
with the BOR as reserve requirements at zero interest rate. The bionds (most
importantly for agriculture, Resolution 39/78 bonds) pay higher &nterest than
"A" bonds but still less than marke rates. The revenue raiset through these
bonds is allocated to a variety of specific uses by the monet'-y authorities
and BOR.



-22 -                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 14
9.        Forced investment (including ISE) totalled Col$ 152 billion in 1985
and was allocated to FFAP (472), housing for the poor (282), Caja (9%),
Central Mortgage Bank (8%) and direct to Government (82). To transfer the
funds obtained through forced investment Into credlt flows to the rural
sector, FFAP functions as a traditional refinancing mechanism for BOR. FFAP
rediscounting permits the expansion of credit: by rediscounting their loans
through FFAP, financial intermediaries (Caja Agraria, banks and financial
corporations) can leverage their own fundaby four or five times, depending on
the rediscount margin (presently ranging between 702 and 952). FFAP
rediscounts mainly loans made to medium- and large-scale farmers, but also
loans to small farmers (normally made by Caja) that meet FFAP's lending
criteria. These funds are available to all banks on a first come, first
ierved basis.
10.       Subsidized Interest Rates.  Until recently, interest rates for
almost all credit lines in the rural sector were below market and fixed. ThA
sub .dy created through provision of credit at below market rates accrues to
those farmers (and they are the majority of Colombia's farm population) who
have access to credit either through FFAP's rediscounting lines or through
Caja's ordinary credit resources.
11.       Directed Credit Allocation.  FFAP's funds are administratively
allocated to specific rural activities. The amount of credit provided is in
proportion to the costs of production involved in a particular activity. The
trend is increasingly for FFAP to finance all agricult'ral products and acti-
vities, including the purchase of land and livestock, ak.a agricultural
marketing and processing activities, although this credit line has not yet
begun to operate.
12.       The three agricultural banks essentially grant credit for any
financially viable agricultural investment, contingent on the availability of
funds. However, Caja's credit is to some extent directed to target groups of
beneficiaries (based on the level of their assets), to specific areas (after
natural disasters), or to specific crops.
B. Growth of Rural and Agricultural Credit
Growth Pattern
13.       The flow of rural credit has grown at 3.0Z p.a. in real terms
during 1974-85 (Table 1), with the faster growth concentrated in the earlier
years (1974-80). In the same period, agricultural credit, the largest
component of rural credit, grew somewhat faster (at 4.72 p.a.), indicating
the greater dynamism of agriculture vis-a-vis marketing and agro-industrial
credit. While impressive, these growth rates have not kept pace with the
growth rate of total credit in the economy (about 11% p.a.), despite changeq
in the composition of agricultural output towards relatively more credit
intensive activities.
14.       the outstanding rural and agricultural portfolios grew, respective-
ly, by only 2.3X and 3.2% annually during 1974-85, compared to 8.62 p.a. for
total portfolio (Table 1). As a result, the agricultural sector's portfolio
declined from about 24% of total outstanding portfolio in 1974 to about 142
in 1985.



-23 -                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 14
Table 1: Totl, Rural ad Mioultural Portfolio and trn
at Coutunt 1975 Prim.  1974-65
Portfolio                    ___         on
Total      &awl a/ Agricultal              Total    Rrl a/    -a1-Ut
Year     Portfolio  Portfolio   Portfolio  (3)/(1)  Loam         Ioens       Lcur
(1)         (2)         (3)      (4)      (5)         (6)        (7)
1974        70,623     20,548      16,778   23.8      51,392    17,971       12,148
1975        75,345      19,756     16,629   22.1      42,757    14,965       11,672
1976        89,725      19,745     17,129   19.1      88,937    22,673       17,069
1977        98,136     23,509      21,048   21.5    113,994    24,623        19,936
1978       111,277     23,580      20,184   18.1    131,747    27,262        21,155
1979       103,762     22,197      19,313   18.6    133,614    27,349        22,048
1980       123,963     23,749      21,163   17.1    192,053    27,009        22,167
1981       141,371     23,860      21,015   14.9    134,213    22,693        17,457
1982       141,121     25,060      21,860   15.5    126,282    24,872        18,684
1983       159,404     26,166      23,143   14.5    128,883    25,702        20,375
1984       170,001     26,743      24,053   14.2    123,673    24,166        19,250
1985       175,138     26,401      23,862   13.6    160,332    24,757        20,028
Groweth Rates
1974-85        8.6        2.3         3.2               10.9        3.0        4.7
1974-80        9.8        2.4         4.0               24.6        7.0        10.5
1980-85        7.2        2.2         2.4               -3.5       -2.5       -2.0
a/ Incliue agricultural, nUrketirg and agro-indstrial loG.
Source: RRES and mLssion estim.tes.
Table 2: Outstanding Agricultural Portfolio by
Financial Intermediary, 1974-85
(Col$ million)
Caja                                      Financial
Year      Total          %      Agraria         Z       Banks       X     Corporations  %
1974      13,782        100       6,208       45        6,705      49           869        6
1975      16,629        100       7,586       46        7,768      47         1,275        7
1976      21,180        100       9,837       46        9,652      46         1,691        8
1977      33,385        100      16,668       50       14,197      43         2,521        7
1978      38,112        100      17,660       46       17,205      45         3,247        9
1979      46,000        100      20,962       46       21,804      47         3,234        7
1980      63,685        100      30,920       49       27,881      44         4,885        7
1981      78,561        100      36,365       46       33,304      42         8,892       12
1982     102,202        100      49,676       49       43,192      42         9,334        9
1983     130,411       100       68,630       53       52,981      41         8,800        6
1984     164,361       100       92,500       56       62,129      38        9,732         6
1985E    198,849        100     118,000       59       71,054      36         9,795        5
Source: Revista del Banco de la Republica and Caja.
E - Estimate.



-24 -                       ANNEX I
Page 5 of 14
Role of Financial Intermediaries and FFAP
15.       In terms of total resources lent, Caja is the financial
intermediary providing the largest share of credit to the agricultural sector
(Table 2). It has increased its portfolio share from 45% in 1974 to 59% in
1985, mainly due to increased access to FFAP rediscounts. The share of the
financial corporations, which has remained fairly constant, and that of the
banks, which has slowly but steadily declined, are still significant,
together accour.ting for 41% of total agricultural credit.
16.       Since 1979/80, lending by financial intermediaries has been increa-
singly through the use of FFAP rediscounts, with FFAP now the main source of
funds for institutional credit to the agricultural sector. Of total new
agricultural lending in 1983, 4j% was accounted for by FFAP rediscounts, up
from 33% in 1979. However, the participation of the various financial inter-
mediaries in FFAP rediscounts has changed dramatically since 1974, reflecting
th3 reduced profitability to the financial intermediaries of the non-redis-
counted portion of the loans. Private commercial banks and financial corpo-
rations accounted for 61% and 4%, respectively, of FFAP's outstanding port-
folio in 1974; in the same year, Caja accounted for 10% and Banco Ganadero
and Banco Cafetero, 12% each. By 1983, the share participetion of commercial
banks and financial corporations had been halved--to 28% and 2% respective-
ly. Participation by Caja in particular (at 33%) and Banco Ganadero (22%)
had increased substantially. Banco Cafetero's share had increased to 15% by
1983.
C. Resources for Institutional Credit
17.       Resources for rural institutional credit come mainly from two
sources: (a) savings mobilized by the banking system, which provided about
half of all resources in 1983, and (b) forced investments from the commercial
banking system (paras. 7-8), which are channelled through FFAP's rediscoun-
ting credit lines together with a small proportion of market-raised funds
(mobilized, for instance, through agro-industrial bonds). These sources as
they relate to agricultural credit are discussed below. In addition, small
amounts come from fiscal and monetary sources (surcharges on Lustom duties,
special rediscount lines in BOR, etc) and separate credit lines 4/ with
financial intermediaries finance particular groups of farmers, mainly small
farmers, using funds from both domestic and foreign sources.
Savings Mobilization by the Agricultural Banks
18.       From 1974 to 1983, total financial savings mobilized by the three
major agricultural banks have grown on average by about 8% p.a. in real terms
(Table 3).  However, growth rates of the individual institutions have dif-
fered, with average annual rates in real terms of 4.4% (Caja), 8.3% (Banco
Cafetero) and 15.4% (Banco Ganadero). Caja's poor resource mobilization is
due partly to its increased access to FFAP funds and partly to its preferen-
tial position of holding current accounts of some government departments and
agencies.
4/   Run principally by INCOR.A (Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform), DRI
(Integrated Rural Development Program) and PRODESARROLLO (Program for
the Development and Diversification of Coffee Growing Areas).



- 25 -                        ANNEX I
Page 6 of 14
Table 3: Resources Mobilized by Agricultural Banks and Total
Agricultural Portfolio, 1974-83
(Constant 1975 - Col$ million)
Deposits
Caja      Banco      Banco              Agricultural  Deposits/
Agraria  Ganadero  Cafetero  Total  Portfolio a/  Portfolio
1974                 7,036    2,006       4,520    13,562    12,596           108%
1980                 8,509    4,942       6,522    19,973    13,546           147%
1983                10,341    7,391       9,243    26,975    13,990           193%
Growth
Rates: 1974-80       3.2%    16.3%        6.3%        6.7%      10.5%
1980-83      6.7%    14.2%       12.2%      10.5%        2.6%
1974-83      4.4%    15.4%        8.3%       7.9%        5.9%
a/   Net of FFAP rediscounts.
Source: RFMSS.
Table 4: Composition of Deposits, 1974-85
1974                    1983                  1985
Curr. Sav.              Curr. Sav.             Curr. Sav.
Accts Accts CDTs Total  Accts Accts CDTs Total Accts Aects CDT Total
Caja Agraria    30    70    -   100      35   55   10  100   36    50   14  100
Banco Cafetero  78    13    9   100      49   14  36   100  n.a.  n.a. rL.a. n.a.
Banco Ganadero  79     6    3    88a/    47    4   33   84a/ n.a.  n.a. n.a. n.a.
Comm. Banks    n.a . n.ea  n.a.  n.a.    43   19  38   100-  41    19  40   100
a/   Banco Ganadero also has some trust funds and other types of deposits.
Source: RFMSS and mission.



- 26 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 14
19.       All three banks have shown rapid growth (averaging 35% per year) in
the volume of certificates of deposit (CDT.). Caja, however, did not begin
promoting CDT. until 1979. While the growth rate over 1980-85 has averaged
81% per year in real terms and the trend is clearly upwards, CDTs in absolute
terms accounted for only 142 of Caja's deposits in 1985 (Table 4). Data for
1983 reveal that the structure of deposits of Banco Ganadero and Banco
Cafetero is more similar to that of the banking system at large than Caja's,
especially with regard to the volume of deposits held in current accounts and
CDTs.
20.       Mobilized financial savings are being increasingly diverted away
from the agricultural sector to other sectors of the economy: in 1974, the
ratio of deposits to the agricultural portfolio of the three agricultural
banks was 108%; by 1983, it had increased to 193% (Table 3). This trend
resulted at least in part from the banks' increased access to FFAP redis-
counts, which in effect freed their own reources for lending to other, more
profitable sectors.
FFAP and the Forced Investment Mechanism
21.       FFAP has had significant success in providing substantial resources
to the agricultural sector, with rapid expansion of its lending program,
especially since 1978. The most important factor in this increased flow of
resources was the expansion of forced investment (including ISE), which
provides about 80% of total FFAP funds.
22.       In 1985, the stock of forced investments, including ISE, totalled
about US$900 million (Table 5), and amounted to a substantial percentage
(about 18%) of deposits (current accounts, saving accounts and CDTs), of
total assets (about 13%), and of the loan portfolio (about 29%) of the com-
mercial banks. Forced investments, including ISE, have grown in real terms
by about 4% p.a. from 1974 to 1985 and 92 p.a. since 1981. Since its incep-
tion in 1978, ISE has shown a faster growth rate than "A" bonds; from 1981 to
1985, ISE increased its share of total forced investment from about 38% to
about 54%.
23.       The share of forced investment, including ISE, financed by the
private banks has ranged from 84% in 1974 to about 74% in 1984. However,
private bank participation is concentrated in forced investment, which yields
lower interest rates than ISE (private banks accounted for 78% of total
forced investment and 68% of ISE in 1984). The magnitude of the resources
captured through forced investment has imposed a serious burden on the
banking system's liquidity and profitability. Forced investment constrains
the banks' liquidity by forcing them to earmark part of the funds attracted
through customer deposits for purposes implying a freezing of funds and low
returns. The opportunity cost of funds in the banking system is apparent
from the divergence between its rverage lending interest rate--29% p.a. in
1984--and the rate then payable on "A" bonds and ISE--which averaged 16.5%.
Moreover, forced investments have longer terms than other bank loans and
funds, creating a situation where demand deposit funds must often be used for
long-term loans and investments. Bank profitability is reduced as larger
percentages of revenue-producing assets are earmarked for low-yielding forced
investments.



- 27 -                          ANNEX I
Page 8 of 14
Table 5: Statistics on Forced Invest ents, F"AP and Caja Agraria
1981   1982    1983   1984   1985
(Billions of Current Pesos)
Coomercial Banks
Total Deposits                                   345.7  413.0   520.7  645.9  846.9
Total Assets                                     491.6  594.2   758.0  926.4 1182.2
Loan Portfolio                                   211.7  257.6   346.8  416.1  521.6
Forced Investmnts a
law 5                                             20.1   23.3    34.6   37.2   43.8
Caja Ponds                                         7.3    8.2      9.5   11.0   13.3
Other                                              4.2    5.3      9.0   10.4   12.5
Total                                             31.6   MT       53.1   58.6   69.6
ISE                                               19.2   23.2    35.2   62.1   82.3
Total Forced Investinnts                          50.8   60.0    88.3  120.7  151.9
-(US$ million equivalent)                 900    900   1,000  1,100    900
Total Forced Inv. as a % of Comercial Banks'
-  Total Deposits                            15      15      17      19     18
-  Total Assets                              10      10      12     13      13
-  Loan Portfolio                            24      23      25     29      29
"aAP Fundi        °/
Naw 5           i                                 20.1   23.3    34.6   37.2   43.8
ISE                                                8.7    6.5    12.6   19.2   28.3
Other                                              3.1   10.0      6.4    9.9   12.3
Total                                             31.9   MU.8    53.6   66.3   84.4
---
"FAP Forced Inv. as a % of Total Forced Inv.    57        50      53      47     47
FFAP Forced Inv. as a Z of Total FAP              90      75      88      85     85
Funding to Caja from Forced Investmuents a/
Bonds                                              7.3    8.2      9.5   11.0   13.3
"FAP                                               8.4   12.6    19.0   30.0   32.2
Total                                             15.7   20.8    28.5   41.0   45.5
FAP to Caja as Z of total FAP                     30      34      37      45     38
Total to Caja as % of Total Forced Inv.           31      35      32      34     30
Forced Inv. to Agriculture as a Z of
Total Forced Investments                       71      63      64      56     56
a/   Stock at year end.
Source: Revista del Banco de la Republica and FFAP.



-28 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 14
24.        Funding VFAP.  The share of forced investment, including ISE, that
the agricultural sector receives through FFAP has increased rapidly, from
about 23% of total forced investments in 1974 to about 48% in 1985, with a
large increase in the early 1980s. The agricultural sector receives most of
the cheaper funds arising from the system, with forced investment %"A" bonds)
providing almost 60X of such financing during 1981-85 (Table 5).
25.        The composition of sources of FFAP funding differs in two distinct
periods.  Up to 1978, FFAP depended exclusively on forced investments ("A"
bonds).  Since then, the sources of funds for FFAP have been diversified and
include Resolution 39 bonds financed through ISE (which doubled their 14%
share of total funds between 1978 and 1984), external financing (6% in 1980
but only 1% in 1985), and in 1978-82, "B" bonds, which are similar to "A"
bonds but are purchased by public sector entities. Since 1979, market
resources have also been captured by FFAP through agroindustrial bonds. The
relative importance of 'A' bonds as a source of funds for FFAP has thus
steadily declined. However, they still account for more than 50% of all FFAP
resources and together with funds raised through ISE constitute over 80%.
Moreover, IFAP's fast growth rate of available funds (over 10% per year in
real terms during 1974-85) was due primarily to the expansion of "A" bonds
(Table 6).
Table 6: FYAP Finxwirg Souzcs at Cbstant (1975) Prices, 1974-85
(O,l$ million)
Bonds  X   Bonds  X     o-   2 XRsolution %  IED   X    Barw          2
Class      Class   Industrial      39/1978     In.1357      de la
Year     A          B       Bonds           Bonds                  epublica     Total
1974   3,483 100     -           -    -        -    -    -   -        -      -   3,480
1980   5,340  67    10          -    -    2,181   27  380   6         -      -   7,940
1983   6,167  65     -       1,527   10    2,234   23  201   2        -      -   9,550
1984   5,716  55     -       1,378   13    2,929   28  156   2       174     2  10,350
1985   5,372  52     -       1,397   14    3,460   33  110   1        -      -  10,340
Growth Rates
1974-80   7.4%       -          -          -             -            -         14.8%
1980-85   0. 1%      -                     9.7%        -22.0%         -          5.4%
1974-85   4.0%       -          -          -                          -         10.-%
Source: FFAP.



- 29 -                     ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 14
D. Interest Rates
26.       Since 1974, and with few exceptions, the interest rates applied to
most credit lines in the rural sector have been negative in real terms and
well below effective CDT rates, the best indicator of market-determined
interest rates. However, since 1980 there has been a trend towards a slight
increase in most rates. In 1983 and 1984, when the inflation rate dropped to
17-18%, many of the rates became positive, and the differential vis-a-vis
market rates decreased slightly (Table 7).
Table 7: Maior Rural Credit Lines - (Effective) Nominal
Interest Rates, 1974-86
FFAP                             Inflation
Caja               Rediscounting            CDTs a/        Rates
1974           n.a.               n.a.                    26.2          24.9
1975       15.3-20.2              15-16.5                 26.8          23.2
1976       15.3-20.2             15-16.5                  26.8          20.1
1977       15.3-20.2              15-16.5                 26.8          33.9
1978       15.3-20.2             12-16.5                  26.8          17.4
1979       15.3-25.4              18-21.5                 25.6          24.6
1980       17.7-35.1             21-24                    37.8          26.5
1981       20.2-35.1             21-24                    39.2          26.3
1982       20.2-35.1             21-24                    36.8          24.0
1983       20.2-35.1             21-24                    34.2          16.6
1984       20.2-35.1             21-24                    35.5          18.3
1985       17.0-32.3             21-24                    35.0          22.4
1986       17.0-32.3           23.9-26.5                  32.0          20.9
a/   Market interest rates are about 5 percentage points higher.
Source: RFMSS and Tables 8 and 9.
27.       Interest rates on agricultural lending vary widely.  Market rates
are rarely utilized due to their high level (effective rates of about 402 in
nominal terms or about 20% in real terms in 1985) compared to the subsidized
rates available. The subsidized rates are available on Caja lending from its
own resources (Table 8) and on the various credit lines that make resources
available by rediscounting through financial intermediaries (including Caja);
the most important such credit line is FFAP (Table 9).
E. Summary of Issues and Recent Policy Improvements
28.       The Government's agricultural credit policy has created a system
that is largely insulated and protected from market signals and probably not
sustainable in the long term. The main issues concerning use of the forced
investment mechanism and interest rate policy are summarized below.
Issues
29.       Forced investments have permitted large transfers of resources to
the agricultural sector, through FFAP's rediscounting credit line, on



- 30                       ANNEX I
Page 11 of 14
Tabla 3:  Loan Interest Rates - CaJa AEraria
Current Rates (1986)
Loan Type                       (Col$ '000)                Nominal        Effective
1. Development Credit
A. Food Crops
Assets up to                300                     18.0            19.5
From                 300 to  1,800          21.0            22.7
Above              1,800                    23.0            25.0
B. Others
Assets up to                100                     18.0            19.5
From                 100 to  1,200          21.0            22.7
From               1,200 to  1,800          23.0            25.0
Above              1,800                    29.0            32.3
Rehabilitation Assets                               18.0            19.5
Rural Housing                                       17.0            18.5
Integrated Farms                                    20.0            21.6
C. DRI
Assets up to                300                     17.0            17.0
Above                300                    21.0            21.0
2. Commercial Credit
Second Window                                       35.0            39.9
Commercial Loans                                    35.0            39.9
Loan against Savings                       27.0 -  30.0   29.9 -  33.5
Inventory Loans                                     24.0            24.0
Resolution 10                                       35.0            39.9
Credit Cards                                        35.0            39.9
Source: CaJa Agraria and mission.
October 23, 1986.



Table 9: 1,ai Izterust bAt. - WPFA
(Z)
1996 Ibt                                         1967 Noe
moini    bi.Rft Vri    It.Pe                      Nomm       t Raf   Mui         i.Rf
Pelmn         FXY !   of          Caa   Ef   |      dilamr A              Of      OaX  Effxxliv
LteraW                      Ro&        dscute Fns 1  1  e/    RM             FIndi   Pledson          P      a  Q/
Lae Far
9r-          Crops a/   18.5       21.5       75        21.5      24.7     19.5    23.0        70       23.0      26.7
Shrt-Tamu               19.2       22.0       75        22.0     25.4    20.0       23.5       70       23.5      27.4
MBdiumn-'Tem c          19.7       22.0        75     Variable    26.5     21.5     23.5       85    Variable      27.9
Loqg-Th  d/-            20.5       22.0        85     Variable    24.6     23.0     24.5       90    Variable      29.4
Sff LU Faznor b/
short-Ten Crops         185        21.5       75        21.5      24.7     14.5    19.0        80       19.0       21.5
Short-Term              19.2       22.0        75       22.0      25.4     15.0     19.5       80       19.5       22.1
diu.M-Terl c/           19.7       22.0        90     Variable    26.5    20.5      22.0       90    Variable      25.9
lorg'evon ld            20.5       22.0        85     Variable    24.6     21.5     23.0        95    Variable     27.1
a/ Swrt-'lkm Crops (low thm 6 .oh), Sxrt-'T   (lows tim  2 yers), and IrdiAiu mH}  (1am  tOm  8 yeau).
b9/ Aec lem tb (bl$ 3,OOD0,OOD.
/ Varble rate   a to re 1of MIl, curently abost 26L
Variable rae opal to rate of DM   phs 3 poLts, owrealy  amt 29L
e/Irest pald in advaome anuur-ter loom an amli1y for thepi       t yer for sodium- and 1m.g-tem loam.
Souoe: WUAP.
Jamiary 27, 1987.                                                                                                                     _



- 32 -                     ANNEX I
Page 13 of 14
relatively soft terms. As a result, however, the rural financial system and
the financial intermediaries have become increasingly reliant on !unds
mobilized through forced investments. This raises four main issues. First,
despite the large volume of funds mobilized through forced investments, agri-
cultural credit has grown more slowly than credit in other sectors and
appears unable to meet demand, at least at the current subsidized interest
rates. Second, with such large transfers through forced investments, there
is less incentive to raise adequate levels of market-mobilized financial
savings. Third, forced invastments already impose a severe burden on the
liquidity and profitability of the banking system, which effectively
precludes indefinite expansion of resource mobilization using this means.
Finally, forced investments are dependent on the Government's macrofinancial
and monetary policies, which may change in response to economic events
unrelated to the agricultural sector.
30.       Interest rate policies have led to a low, controlled and highly
subsidized level of interest rates. The rate dispersion does not reflect
market-related resource mobilization costs and risk differentials, but rather
administrative decisions. These factors have raised issues in several
areas. First, the low interest rates to borrowers translate into generally
low interest paid to depositors, which in turn constrains mobilization of
financial savings and contributes to the agricultural banks becoming
increasingly dependent on FFAP. Second, the low interest rates paid by
farmers reduce the profitability of agricultural lending, especially that
with longer terms; as a result, financial intermediaries are seeking more
profitable investments in other sectors, and agricultural credit is
concentrated in short-term lending. Finally, the high subsidy implicit in
interest rates has accrued primarily to medium- and large-scale farmers and
thus has not improved income distribution. On the other hand subsidized
credit to small farmers has masked a high level of inefficiency in financial
intermediation by Caja (see Annex 2). This has resulted in less credit being
made available to small farmers and at a higher relative cost (reducing the
effective subsidy to smaller farmers), while Caja pays low interest rates to
its (mainly rural) depositors.
Credit Policy Improvements
31.       To ensu.e a sounder basis for financing the rural economy, the
Rural Financial Markets Sector Study recommended that: (a) forced investments
be at least frozen at their present nominal level; (b) the proportion of
individual loans rediscounted by FFAP (i.e., the rediscount margin) be
progressively reduced, thereby allowing a given amount of FFAP resources to
blend with a larger volume of market-mobilized resources; (c) simultaneously
with (a) and (b), the margin to financial intermediaries and the interest
rates charged to farmers be progressively increased to levels that provide an
adequate incentive .or the financial intermediaries to fully utilize the
resources mobilized through forced investment and made available through
FFAP; and (d) mediurn- and long-term interest rates for FFAP rediscounting be
made partially variable, by making the interest rate on the non-rediscounted
portion of the loan equal to CDT rates plus about three percentage points.
Effective interest rates for the whole loan should a. least be positive
whenever they are less than CDT rates.



- 33 -                       ANNEX I
Page 14 of 14
32.       Some policy improvements have already been achieved through a
US$250 million Trade and Agricultural Policy (TAP) Loan approved in March
1986. As a condition of the first tranche release, FFAP on-lending rates to
farmers were raised between 0.5 and 7.0 percentage points, for an average of
1.5 percentage points, to between 21.8% and 25.1% effective. In addition,
interest on the portion of medium- and long-term loans not rediscounted by
FFAP was made variable and equal to current CDT rates. Further discussions
on interest rate policy and the use of FFAP are expecced with the release of
the second tranche in 1f87.



COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Movement of CDT Rate and CPI, 1974-86
40-
38 -
316 
34-
32-
30 
z
o    ~28-
26                              7      7      B
24
22-
20-
18 
74    75      76     77    78    79       80    Si    82    83         84     85    88           1
0    CDT RATE                -*   CONS. PRaCE INDEX



~ 35 -                    ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 16
COLOMBIA
CA_A A AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Caja Agraria - The Implementing Agency
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero (Caja) is one of the
largest banks in Colombia, with assets of Co1$ 242 billion (US$1.4 billion)
and new lending of some Col$ 100 billion (US$580 million) in 1985. Caja is a
large and complex organization whose mandate is to provide financial services
and inputs to small farmers. By December 1985, Caja had a network of 878
branches, 411 warehouses and input stores, and a staff of some 13,000. It
has become the main outlet for credit to small farmers, as well as a channel
for government assistance programs in rural areas.
2.        The provision of specialized rural credit began in 1924 with the
establishment of Banco HIpotecario (BAH) to provide loans for rural housing.
In 1925, a section was created (Caja de Ahorros) to mobilize savings and in
1927, in an effort to lower the cost of production to farmers, another sec-
tion was added for the provision of agricultural supplies such as machinery,
fertilizers, seeds and insecticides. In 1931, the BAH was reorganized into
two separate institutions, Ca4a de Credito Agrario and Caja Colombiana de
Ahorros. Caja was created when these two institutions subsequently merged.
In 1944, Caja's scope of operations was widened to include insurance sales.
3.        Caja was originally set up as a mixed entity, with 25% of equity
owned by the Government, 10% by commercial banks, 4% by the National Coffee
Federation (FEDERACAFE) and 61% by its borrowers. It was designed to operate
as a credit union, with members acquiring shares in direct proportion to
their loans outstanding. This attempt to use private capital from borrowers
failed, and as the Government raised its participation to 93%, CaSa became
effectively part of the public sector. In 1968, the Government revised the
laws and regulations governing the public sector, and Caja was classified as
a State Industrial and Commercial Enterprise subject to the various restric-
tions and regulations applicable to government corporations. The current
legal situation with regard to Caja's equity composition is shown below:
Classes of Shares           Subscribed by:                Allowed Percengage
A                    Public enterprises            no less than 80%
B                    Banks and corporations        Up to 5%
C                    National Federation of
Coffee Growers             Up to 10%
D                    Public                       Up to 5%
4.        Caja's role in agriculture has always beeh understood as develop-
ment in a general sense, and the entity continues to carry out a variety of
tasks not always related to credit. Other activities are important in terms
of their size relative to the markets they serve: in fertilizers, for



-36-                         ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 16
instance, Caja has held 25% of the market during 1981-85, and the installed
capacity of its 5 seed production plants is equivalent to 12% of the national
market.   These activities are, however, minor compared to Caja's lending
operations: in 1985, insurance and agricultural sales accounted for the
equivalent of 12% of operating revenues from the banking operations. Lending
is not restricted to the rural sector, and in 1985, 20% of Caja's portfolio
was placed in other sectors.
5.        Up until the early 1970s, Caja was considered a relatively effi-
cient institution. It now has serious administrative problems rooted Li its
political value to the Government. As the Government assigned an increasing
number of functions to Caja, i/ no provision was made to cover the budgetary
effects of these new programs, nor were they assigned following a clear
long-term strategy. The results are a lack of appropriate lending pioce-
dures, no depth nor leadership of middle management, excessively high over-
heads and loan arrears, lack of automated equipment, high transaction costs,
bad quality of service and low employee morale. In spite of this, Caja is
still considered the only institution able to reach small farmers on a large
scale, and the Government has expressed its interest in reforming Caja.
II. ORGANIZATION, STAFFING AND PROCEDURES
Organization
6.        Caja is governed by an 11 member board chaired by the Minister of
Agriculture. Other board members are the Vice-Minister for Agriculture,
Vice-Minister for Finance, the General Manager of the Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria (INCORA), four appointees of the President of the
Republic, a representative from the Banco de la Republica (BOR), a represen-
tative from FEDERACAFE, and a representative from the Farmers Users'
Association. Caja's General Manager is a presidential appointee. Even
though he reports directly to the board, he has a certain degree of autonomy
and considerable political power, making this a visible, highly prestigious
and politically desirable position.
7.        The General Manager has seven department heads reporting to him.
Three (Finance, Administration and Personnel, and Legal Affairs) are support
units, and four (Credit, Commercial Banking, Input Supply and Insurance) are
service departments (see Chart 1).
8.        Caja's credit activities operate through branches that report to
the Credit Depdrtment through six regional offices. Branches are classified
into four categories according to number of staff and functions performed.
Caja has achieved a very wide coverage, with the number of branches
1/   Caja was given tasks such as collection of mortgage payments for the
Instituto de Credito Territorial, administering the "Subsidio Familiar",
(savings accounts of companies for the benefit of employees), etc.



- 37 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 16
increasing from 680 to 878 between 1970 and 1986 (by comparison, the private
banking system has about 1,900 branches). This branch network allows Caja Lo
reach large numbers of small farmers and to provide the geographic coverage
required by Government. This network contributes to the institution's high
administrative costs. Moreover, many branches are operating at a loss and in
a poor condition with little maintenance and modernization undertaken.
9.        Caja's organization reflects its haphazard evolution over time and
the need to maintain an excessive infrastructure to cope with unexpected
requests from Government. The large number of branches makes it feasible for
Caja to reach a large number of small farmers but contributes to the institu-
tion's inordinately high administrative costs ind closeness with local poli-
tical interests. In spite of the layered structure of the branch network and
the regional distribution, there is no effective decentralization: most of
the large regional and state offices merely transmit information between
headquarters and field offices and do not enjoy the necessary level of dele-
gation to function effectively. These large offices are heavily staffed and
have high operating costs.
Staffing
10.       As of February 1986, Caja had about 13,000 employees, of which
2,100 or 16% were at headquarters and 8,640 (66%) worked in branch offices.
The remaining staff were employed by the Input Sales Division (9%) or as
agricultural inspectors (9%).
11.       Staff levels are excessive.  From 1971 to 1976, when the number of
branches increased by 25%, from 678 to 833, the staff grew rapidly,
increasing from 9,776 to 13,928, or 43% (an average of 27 new employees fir
each new branch versus an average of 14 employees per branch in 1971). Since
then, there have been some attempts to reduce staff. In the late 1970s, Caja
introduced account automation, but the political pressures to generate
employment pre-empted any significant gains in productivity through
attrition. In 1976, early rezirement was offered and accepted by several
hundred employees, but since Colombian Labor Law establishes retirement ages
of 55 for women and 60 for men, the agreement is now being challenged    the
former employees. More recently, the policy has been to reduce numbers by
attrition and/or replacing permanent staff with contract staff or "interinos"
at a lower cost (e.g., 1,200 agricultural inspectors in early 1986 have now
been reduced to around 820).
12.       Staff productivity is low as indicated by a comparison between Caja
and Banco Cafetero for 1983. These differences can only be partly explained
by the smaller average size of loans and deposits at Caja.
Caja Agraria           Banco Cafetero
(millions ColS          (millions C-ol$
Deposits/No. branches                  55.0                    147.1
Deposits/No. employees                  3.9                       5.2
Assets/employee                         7.7                      17.1
Portfolio/employee                      5.8                     13.2
Source: Caja Agraria, Informe de Consultoria, Ley 68 de 1983.



- 38 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 16
13.       Recruitment.  Appointments to lower positions are made by each
branch manager; higher positions are filled by regional managers; and
vacancies at the regional offices are appointed by headquartIrs. Recently,
in an effort to mitigate the bargaining power of the union, _/ the General
Manager has reserled the right to appoint senior staff, making them public
employees rather than Caja's official employees. This step politicized these
positions (top managers tend to be selected on the basis of political
affiliations) and increased turnover at these levels. Reauneration for
public employees is relatively low, thus the political visibility and power
associated with these positions are the sole incentives for accepting them.
Promotion of Caja's official employees to these positions would entail a loss
of stability and remuneration. This situation has contributed to the lack of
continuity and managerial leadership.
14.       Training and Promotion.  Formal training tends to concentrate on
areas such 7s sales of farm supplies, and positions such as livestock inspec-
tors and bank clerks. Training in more technical areas has only been avail-
able for a few mid-Lanagement positions; one reason for this might be that
.ew would qualify for it because of age (the average age of Caja's employees
is ove: 40). Higher positions are filled from within rather than through
outside recruitment.
15.       Job descriptions for Caja were written in 19?4.  Positions are
classified according to the branch in which they are located, which rapre-
sents a serious obstacle in relocating personnel. The tendency is to move to
positions in the head office as these wield more power and are better paid.
Career paths have also been cut off by the reclassification of senior posi-
tions (para. 14).
16.       In general, Caja's staff is not public oriented and makes little
effort to sell. Most -on-credit services, i.e. savings, checking, drafts and
insurance, are only offered in connection with or as requirements for loan
approval. Caja's recent incursions into commercial banking have introduced
some new attitudes, however. In its commercial bank lending, as well as in
its Insurance Division, Caja has better trained and more motivated profes-
sionals with clearer objectives and a more innovative approach to financial
intermediation.
Systems and Procedures
17.       Accounts and Audit.  Accounting procedures follow guidelines
established by the Superintendency of Banks. Caja has adapted these for its
2/   During the biennial contract negotiations, the union has managed to gain
above average benefits, particularly in pensions, retirement, sick
leave, housing loans and educational grants for children. Relations
between management and the work force have become increasingly confron-
tational.



39 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 16
own internal purposes, but most reports can easily be reorganized into the
format required by the Superintendency of Banks. Hajor problems with Caja's
accounting are the result of inadequate systems for aggregating and transmit-
ting basic accounting Information from the branch network to headquarters.
As a consequence, Caja's management cannot obtain timely reports on its
liquidity position, collection ratios, or reliable profitability figures for
its branches, product lines or customers.
18.       As a Bank, Caja is subject '.o the supervision of the Superinten-
dency of Banks, but must also abide by regulations issued by the Junta
Monetaria. Its accounts are not audited by an external auditor, nor is Caja
subject to the Contraloria General. Financial statements must, however, be
approved by the Superintendency of Banks before publication. Caja's auditor
is a high ranking officer who is appointed by BOR and reports to Caja's Board
of Directors; his staff and budget depend on Caja. The auditor also partici-
pates in the approval process of some of Caja's programs.
19.       Planning and Budgeting.  There is very little effective planning
within Caja in spite of the number of people involved in making projections
in two different units in the Finance Department. Planning concentrates on
the allocation of ordinary resources (i.e. funds generated from deposits) and
government cornributions; it extends for only six months or a year at the
most and is nct linked in a systematic way to budgeting.
20.       Budgeting is a fairly lengthy but well structured process, with the
branches sending their estimates of new loans, input sales, etc., to the head
office where they are reviewed and aggregated. After adjustments to obtain
the desired level of credit, the figures are disaggregated by regional office
and each branch receives a budget for its lending operations. This exercise
is done twice a year and absorbs a vast amount of staff time. Data proces-
sing equipment is used at headquarters to add the individual branch budgets
but not in the branch offices.
21.       Operations.  Operational problems are evidetit in the branches as
well as head office. The number of reports is excessive, with over 180
reports produced monthly by the branches for the head office. The number of
approvals for all types of transactions is also excessive. Branches are
organized by service, which limits cross selling opportunities and causes a
disfunctional physical layout (clients in operational areas). At the head
office, Caja's management faces interference from the Board of Directors, as
the four main committees (Finance, Credit, Administration and Commercial
Policy) each include two directors among their members. There is also poor
coordination in decision making; problems affecting the whole entity may be
looked at by only one functional area, or a problem related to only one area
may be investigated by several departments.
22.       Caja is subject to a complex set of regulations by several govern-
ment agencies, mainly the Junta Monetaria, the Superintendency of Banks and
BOR, each with partial jurisdiction over some operational aspects. These
regulations not only relate to traditional instruments of monetary control
(such as the level of reserves), but also include specific and varying
requirements in respect of lending conditions applicable to borrowers by



- 40 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 16
income category, region and other characteristics. As a result, even though
the institution enjoys some independence in setting its own work plans, it
has to cope with extensive outside interference.
23.       External interference in Caja's management is particularly evident
in financial decisions. For instance, interest rates are set according to
non-commercial criteria (regional development and equity). Perhaps most
damaging are the emergency programs and the arbitrary manner in which a
variety of social tasks are added to Caja's regular activities. This
increases the tendency to focus on assigning people to the new task and
contributes to management turnover and lack of work continuity, as managers
are frequently rotated to carry out these unexpected requests. The result
over time has beun the creation of an oversized organization whose structure
and systems have the flexibility to support a variety of services, but with
no sense of continuity and no accountability in management.
24.       Credit.  Credit procedures suffer from excessive regimentation
intended to link funds from different sources to specific ends. There are
some 75 credit programs each with its own eligibility criteria, terms and
monitoring systems. The present credit manual is inadequate because of its
emphasis on compliance with bureaucratic hurdles and regulations.
25,       Organization of credit operations is also defective.  There is no
asset/liability management, no loan review function and no separation between
the functions of loan promotion, administration and analysis. Loan file
update and documentation are not centralized, nor is it the responsibility of
any particular officer. Loan processing is lengthy and carried out by poorly
trained personnel with little or no automation. Evaluation of loan
applications is based on the current value of collateral and equity of the
applicant, and not on asset conversion.
III. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS /
26.       This analysis of Caja focuses on its financial viability and tries
to bring out its major problems and vulnerabilities. The first section
begins by looking at the growth and structure of Caja's assets, where one of
the main issues is the distortions caused by use of funds generated through
forced investments. The section includes a look at changes in the
composition of the loan portfolio and the level of .verdues.  The next
sections look at the structure and growth of liabilities and Caja's capital
structure. The final section looks at different aspects of Caja's overall
3/   The information used for this analysis comes from various sources, but
most was obtained from Caja's financial department and BOR. The
1982-85 financial statements from which some data were drawn carry a
qualified opinion from Caja's auditor. The main qualifications reflect
defective internal control systems and the absence of adequate automated
equipment. Some problems, such as the non-reconciliation of accounts,
have lingered in Caja's financial statements for several years.



- 41 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 16
financial performance, including liquidity, operating margins and
profitability, where the most important issue is the size of overhead costs,
particularly personnel costs.
Structure and Growth of Assets 4/
27.       Caja's assets totalled Col$ 241.6 billion (US$1.4 billion) in
1985. The most important asset category is loans and diecounts, accounting
for just under 60% of the total every year since 1975. Government recei-
vables are the next most significant category, amounting to around
Col$ 50 billion, or 21% of Caja's assets in 1985. Receivables include a
grant made to Caja by the Government in 1983 to cover its accumulated losses
(Col$ 30 billion, or US$300 million equivalent) in the form of a 20 year note
at 2.5% interest. The Input Sales and Insurance Divisions account for 2% of
assets.
28.       Assets have grown at an average real rate of 5.2% p.a. over 1974-85
and the loan portfolio at 4.2% p.a. Even though these increases are below
that of credit for the whole econoMy (total portfolio growth of 8.6% p.a.),
they are greater than expansion of agricultural GDP (3.6% p.a.). This is
partly explained by the concentration of Caja's lending in agricultural
credit as opposed to agro-industrial and marketing credit (agricultural
credit has been the most dynamic component of rural credit, with a 5.9% p.a.
real growth in portfolio from 1974-85). Recently, Caja's lending has
experienced a strong push, with real growth rates of about 10% p.a. in the
purctolio in 1980-85. This performance is good compared to 7.2% p.a. for the
whole of the financial sector. Caja's commercial banking activities have
been expanding at higher rates than its conventional lending to farmers and,
since 1982, the commercial portfolio has increased from 9% to 18% of total
portfolio. The growth in different types of lending in recent years is as
follows:
4/   Caja's financial statements may be overestimating market values of
assets by as much as 20%. The present aging of receivables and loans
outstanding corresponds to requirements of the Superintendency of Banks
but does not fully convey default risks at market values. The
inter-agency float is not shown separately, nor are letters of credit
and overdrafts, which have grown substantially in the recent past. In
addition, Caja's other lines of business are not properly represented in
the balance sheet. The Input Sales Division shows only the inventory
category with no separation of the warehouses, trucks and receivables
directly associated with this line of business from the overall
accounts.



-42-                      ANMX 2
Page 8 of 16
Type of Lending          1982      1983       1984       1985      Increase
1982-85
(In real terms)
------- -----(million Col$) -        ----        ------
Total rural
portfolio            45,891    61,717    76,769    106,523           37
Rediscounted
lines (FFAP)         11,399    17,604    22,155       37,702         95
Ordinary
resources            34,487    44,113    54,614       68,821          18
Commercial
lending               4,783      7,726     9,463      19,608        142
29.       Access to funds from the Fondo Financiero Agropecuario (FFAP)--a
rediscount window at BOR financed with forced investments from commercial
banks as a means of providing agriculture with subsidized credit (see
Annex 1)--has allowed Caja to increase its share of agricultural credit at
th6 expense of the private sector. By making FFAP funds available for
agricultural credit, it has also freed up Caja's ordinary resources to allow
the growth of Caja's commercial business. In 1985, FFAP rediscounted loans
for a total of Col$ 83.0 billion (US$500 million), of which Caja placed about
46% through its lending operations. Between 1982 and 1985, Caja's lending
rediscounted through FFAP grew at an average annual rate of 25% compared to
6%, in real terms, for lending from its ordinary resources. At year end
1985, FFAP accounted for over 35% of Caja's total rural loans outstanding.
30.       There are advantages to Caja in using FFAP funds, but also some
drawbacks. Caja uses FFAP funds to remedy its liquidity problems, since the
availability of these resources permits Caja to liberate its own resources
for emergency programs, rural housing loans and commercial banking. At their
subsidized rates, there are no problems of demand for FFAP credit. Use of
FFAP funds has a beneficial effect on Caja's financial results (the gross
margin stands at betweeo 30% and 40%, compared to Caja's own margin of 14%)
and involves lower administrative and marketing costs. These loans require
less effort in terms of processing and tend to be for larger amounts than
loans from Caja's ordinary resources. In addition, any technical assistance
required is paid for by the borrowers. On the other hand, use of FFAP funds
results in a tendency towards lending to larger farmers rather than Caja's
target group of small farmers (lending to large farmers accounted for 28X of
the value of the portfolio in 1982, but 33% in 1985) and towards a passive
attitude in savings mobilization.
31.       The exransion of Caja's business into non-rural credit activities
has been the subject of some concern in Government. Caja's management has
seen the expansion of commercial banking as a means of improving its chronic
deficits without recourse to the Government, since lending rates for banking
operations move freely and can reach differentials of up to 15 percentage
points above rural lending rates. The concern expressed is partly justified
because the subsidies granted to Caja are based on the assumption that they
are eventually passed along to the rural population. On the other hand, Caja



-43 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 16
does not receive compensation from Government for its 'social" functions or
providing government services. If the Government were to limit Caja's
lending to the rural sector, It would also have to finance a larger share of
Caja's deficits. Additionally, It would deprive Caja of an infusion of
technical Innovation, a training ground for better qualified loan officers
and the experience of competing in a more dynamic financial market.
32.       Composition of the Loan Portfolio.  Evolution of Caja's portfolio
over time reflects a clear trend towards medium at the expense of short-term
lending, and a greater share of lending for infrastructure, livestock and
general purposes relative to crop lending. In 1970, short-term loans were
42% of the portfolio, but only about 32Z in 1985. Medium-term lending went
up from alout 41% in 1970 to 49% in 1985. In terms of activities financed,
short-term crops have decreased from 25% of total rural lending in 1982 to
about 20% in 1985, while lending f:r infrastructure and rural housing has
gone up from 13% to 29%.
33.       This change in portfolio mix could reflect a change in borrowers'
preferences and their views of the services offered by Caja compared to those
of commercial banks. Borrowers may be reluctant to use Caja for short-term
lending because of problems with the timeliness ar.d availability of funds
(see para. 46). Working capital for crop production was therefore more
likely to be financed out of savings or by private lenders.
34.       Overdues.  Caja shows a high level of late loans and this situation
has deteriorated over the past 18 months. Until 1984, Caja's overdue
situation was comparable to that of other official banks. As a group,
official banks tend to have higher arrears than the banking industry as a
whole. In 1985, there was a marked increase in Caja's arrears of less than
1 year. '/ This has brought total problem loans to Col$ 23.4 billion
(US$140 million), or 17% of the portfolio, up from 14% in the previous year
(Table 7). This deterioration was caused by the acceleration of lending in
recent years without improvements in the quality of the loan approval and
collection processes, and the undertaking of new lending programs (such as
for rural housing and political amnesty) that have a high risk of default and
slow repayment rates.
35.       Caja establishes its loan loss provisions in accordance with
regulations set by the Superintendency of Banks, i.e., that reserves be nade
for 100% of late loans without a real guarantee, but no reserves be made for
loans with collateral. The loan loss provision has fluctuated between 3.?,
and 2.2% of total loans in 1975-85. This is normal by banking standards, but
seemF iow v'hen compared to Caja's write-off percentages equivalent to 1.5%
and 1.6% for 1982 and 1983 (the last years for which this information is
available). Tnia level of write-offs is 8 times higher than expected in an
5/   Classification of the overdue portfolio at Caja corresponds to that
required by the Superintendency of Banks. Arrears are registered as
"Cartera Vencida" (less than 1 year) and "Cartera de Dudoso Recaudo"
(more than 1 year old). Rescheduling is frequently used as a temporary
solution to late loans, but rescheduled loans are not shown separately.



- 44 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 16
average OECD bank, and the figures do not even include losses on liquidation
of collateral. Caja's loan loss provision is thus inadequate to protect
against nonrepayment risks. This is partly because rules establishing the
provision do not consider the effect of changes in the age profile of loans
with collateral, or in the market value of the guarantees.
Structure and Growth of Liabilities
36.       In 1985, Caja's main liabilities were as follows: dep3sits from the
public 46%, subsidized funds (FFAP and Caja bonds) 19%, and re6iscounts from
BOR 5%. The remainder comprised capital infusions from Government, asset
revaluations and accrued liabilities, of which the most significant was the
staff's pension fund (16%). Growth of some oc the main liabilities is
discussed below.
37.       Savings Deposits.  Savings accounts are the major single category
in Caja's funding sources at Col$ 46.5 billion (US$270 million), or 19% of
total sources. Over the past 10 years, total deposits have grown at
4.5Z p.a. in real terms, while savings have grown at only 1.3% p.a. However,
from 1975 to 1980, savings grew at 1.82 p.a., but growth has been slightly
negative since 1978. (By contrast, the stock of FFAP funds rediscounted
through Caja have grown at 14% p.a. in real terms over the same 10 year
period.) The growth of savings is shown below (expressed in constant 1985
Col$ billion).
Year              Savings          Current                          Total
Accounts   x     Accounts    2    CDTs       X    Deposits
1975              41.0      67       20.0      33                      61.0
1976              43.8      68       20.4      32     0.1     -        64.3
1977              45.1      68       21.1      32     0.1     -        66.3
1978              47.7      70       20.3      30     0.1      -       68.1
1979              46.7      67       23.4      33     0.1     -        ;0.2
1980              44.9      65       23.6      34     0.7      1       69.2
1981              44.4      65       22.1      32     1.9      3       68.4
1982              43.7      58       24.7      33     6.8     9        75.2
1983              46.1      54       29.3      35     9.1    11        84.5
1984              47.8      53       29.8      33    12.0    14        89.6
1985              46.5      49       34.8      37    13.7    14        95.0
Growth Rates
1975-80             1.8               3.4             -                 2.6
1975-85             1.3               5.7             -                 4.5
1980-85            0.7                8.1            81.3               6.5
Source: Caja Agraria.
38.       Caja's record in attracting savings has been poor, as reflected by
the decreasing share of savings deposits in total resources (down from 28% in



45 -                      ANNEX 2
PageFj of 16
1982 to 19% in 1985), as well as by a declining market share (Caja's savings
accounts were 30% of the national market in 1981 but 27% in 1985). These
ratios are affected by the growing importance of other sources of funding
such as FFAP, certificates of deposits (CDTs) and the pension fund, but they
nonetheless show a downward trend in Caja's ability to mobilize savings.
Most of Caja's deposits are raised in rural areas, but in spite of its vast
branch network and well-established reputation, Caja has done poorly relative
to the other two agricultural banks (see Annex 1). This difference is partly
explained by the higher interest paid by the other banks and the higher
income level of their depositors relative to Caja's.
39.       Equally important, however, is Caja's greater reliance on FFAP and
BOR rediscounts and its passive approach to marketing its savings account
services. This lack of interest is puzzling considering that Caja's effec-
tive cost of savings mobilization is lower than the cost of FFAP funds. By
excessive reliance on FFAP and BOR rediscounts, Caja is bypassing the
opportunity of capitalizing on its institutional name with small savers in
rural areas.
40.       Demand Deposits.  Demand deposits at Caja have been growing at
5.7% p.a. in real terms over 1975-85. This rate compares well with those of
the commercial banks and the rest of the financial system. Caja's success in
attracting demand deposits can be traced to its recent incursions into
commercial lending and also to the fact that public entities in Colombia are
required to hold their liquid assets in official banks. The growth in this
type of deposit is expected to level off as Caja's share in commercial and
regular banking credit reaches the limits of what is politically acceptable.
41.       Certificates of Deposit.  Together with interbank loans, CDTs are
possibly the most expensive source of funds for Caja. Caja is a latecomer
into the CDT market, but has gone aggressively after this type of deposit
with the onset of its commercial banking operations, which are financed with
these high cost resources. By December 31, 1985, Caja had US$80 million
equivalent in CDTs, and its share of the CDT market went from 1% of the total
-in 1981 to 4% in 1985. CDTs now provide 14% of Caja's total deposits.
Preliminary estimates for the first semester of 1986 suggest that Caja has
maintained this share.
42.       Pension Liability.  Since 1982, when a special increase in the
workers' pension fund brought it up to its present level of magnitude
--Col$ 39.2 billion (US$230 million) in 1985-the retirement fund has been
one of Caja's major liabilities. Given the structure of workers' compensa-
tion and benefits, this item will grow more than proportionately to base wage
costs, unless specific actions are undertaken to reduce it. The pension
liability is completely unfunded and is therefore a major coutingency item,
as well as a serious constraint to restructuring Caja through the sale of all
or part of its business to the private sector.
43.       Rediscounts at BOR.  BOR has maintained a rediscount facility to
Caja, despite statements by BOR officials that Caja's access to this facility
would be ended. In December 1985, Caja had obligations to BOR amounting to
Co'^ 11.4 billion (US$66 million).



- 46 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 16
Capital Structure
44.       Caja's present sources of equity are those established by Law 68,
mainly the equivalent to 2% of 40% of cif duties and the payment of the
Col$30 billion long-term note receivable.
45.       The issue of an appropriate level of capitalizacion for Caja
deserves some comment. Caja will not generate a positive flow of income
until at least 1990, assuming a continuation of present trends. This would
prevent Caja from complying with the debt equity ratio (9:1) required by the
Superintendency of Banks. To maintain this equity ratio, Caja would require
additional capital of about US$300 million over 1985-90. The Government
therefore faces the dilemma of either enforcing equity requirements and
disbanding Caja at its next financial crisis, or again extending a grant to
Caja to cover its losses. Given the importance of Caja and the choices that
the Government has made in the past, the latter is the most likely outcome.
The Government should make its decision with full knowledge of the social and
financial implications: funding Caja involves a transfer :f resources from
taxpayers and savers to borrowers at subsidized rates and Caja's employees.
The extent to which each group will benefit or lose from this transaction,
and the cost effectiveness of using Caja to complete it, should be the
guiding criteria.
Financial Performance
46.       Liquidity. Liquid assets at Caja reached Col$ 22.6 billion in 1985
(US$13 million), or 9X of total assets, an improvement over the 14% in 1981.
Caja has reduced average cash holdings in an effort to expand its lending
program over the past 3 years and to compensate for the lower level of repay-
ments from its loan portfolio. In fact, Caja's liquid assets may be too low,
given its inefficiency in cash management. Caja's liquidity management pro-
blem is evidenced by the level of fines charged by BOR (over Col$ 6 billion
accumulated at end 1985, or US$3.5 million). Unanticipated shortages of
funds are not only expensive (they are usually covered with short-term money
market funds), but more seriously, Caja delays disbursements and sometimes
cancels loans to small farmers.
47.       Operating Margins.  Caja has a hefty net interest margin brought
about by its access to low cost funds, eg. from FFAP and its own bonds. In
addition, in 1977, the Government allowed Caja to reduce its reserve require-
ments from 15% to 0.5% (commercial banks are still required to keep reserves
equivalent to 30X of savings) and place these liberated funds into high-
yielding loans. _/  However, higher interest rates in the Colombian economy
have brought about a squeeze of this margin, as increases in Caja's marginal
costs of funds have outpaced increases in interest revenues. Average
interest on loans went from 21.6% to 24.2% between 1982 and 1985, due to
Caja's increased participation in commercial bank lending. In order to
finance its lending program, however, Caja has recently raised funds through
CDTs and other market-priced instruments whose marginal cost exceeds Caja's
6/   Such as "Credito de Segunda Ventanilla" and "Credito a Ahorradores" at
lending rates of 33% and 30%, respectively.



-47 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 13 of 16
average cost of funds. The average cost of funds has gone up accordingly,
from 9,6X in 1982 to 11.22 in 1985. Compared to the rest of the banking
system, Caja still enjoys a wide lntermediation margin (defined as interest
tacome plus commissions over interest expense plus paid cowuissions): while
the entire system had an Intermediation margin of 38.52, the figure for Caja
was 552.
48.       Total operating revenues (i.e., net interest revenues plus other
income) have nearly tripled over 1982-85, from Col$ 14.5 billion t7O
Col$ 36.7 billion (US$200 million), a 492 increase in real terms. / Inter-
est income and interest expense have both grown over 1982-85, but while
interest income went from 912 to 932 of total operating revenue (TOR), inter-
est expense went from 482 to 51% in the same period. Due to an enlarged
portfolio base, net interest income for 1985, at Col$ 15.3 billion
(US$89 million), nearly doubled the 1984 figure. Commissions and fee income
are a minor part of Caja's revenues at Col$ 2.7 billion (US$16 million), but
could grow if Caja widens the variety of financial services offered.
49.       Reported losses for bad debts have gone down from Col$ 3.3 billion
in 1982 to Col$ 2.9 billion In 1985. Their share of TOR went down substan-
tially, from 232 in 1982 to 82 In 1985. However, these figures do not take
into account losses resulting from the difference between liquidation and
book values of collateral.
50.       Profitability.  Caja has been generating losses since 1975 as a
result of successive increases in the staff benefit package, bad pricing
practices in input sales, and a gradual squeeze of interest margins. Past
and projected losses for 1975-87 are shown below:
Year                        Net Income                    Accumulated Loss
(Col$ million)                   (Col$ million)
1975                           (263.0)                          (185.3)
1976                         (1,016.4)                        (1,201.7)
1977                           (592.1)                        (1,793.8)
1978                           (671.5)                        (2,465.3)
-- 1979                        (1,036.8)                        (3,502.1)
1980                         (1,121.2)                        (4,623.3)
1981                         (1,795.2)                        (6,418.5)
1982                        (13,994.6)                       (20,413.1)
1983                         (9,630.0)                       (30,043.1)
1984                         (3,425.0)                        (3,425.0)
1985                            192.0                         (3,233.0)
1985 adj                     (1,138.0)                        (4,371.0)
1986 est                     (8,397.0)                       (12,768.0)
1987 eat                    (12,148.0)                       (24,916.0)
Source:  Caja Agraria.
7/   This figure does not make allowances for the fact that while interest on
arrears of less than 1 year accrues at 1002 of the applicable penalty
rate, penalty interest is often condoned whenever late loans are
settled. Adjusting for this, the reduction in revenues would be around
Col$3.1 billion for 1985 (US$18 million), or about 92 of all interest
revenues for the year.



- 48 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 14 of 16
51.       Increases in personnel costs accounted for 80% of the accumulated
losses between 1980 and 1983. CaJa's labor costs are the major component of
its overhead expenses and are high relative to those of other Colombian
financial institutions. This is because Caja's pension and other benefits
are abnormally generous, and because Caja is engaged in labor-intensive acti-
vities not normally performed by credit entities (eg. sales of agricultural
inputs and maintaining a vast network of small branches to cover every
municipality in the country). The mechanism by which staffing costs have
been covered in the past has led the Gcvernment into deficit spending on
behalf of Caja. In this sense, it can be argued that CaJa--and more speci-
fically the union--dotermines the allocation of public finances in advance.
This issue should be addressed explicitly in the establishment of more
effective cortrol systems and in defining the relationship betC;een Caja and
its regulatory environment.
52.       For 1986 and 1987, personnel costs are expected to account for most
of the projected Col$ 13 billion losses (see table above). Annual adminis-
trative costs at Caja are high in relation to TOR at 70% for 1985 (30-40%
would be more acceptable). The present level would be acceptable for a bank
with an average intermediation margin, as the bank would then be recovering
essentially all of its fixed and variable expenses. Caja's margin (14
points) is, however, way above that for comparable official banks (around 6
points for Banco Ganadero and Banco Cafetero). Even when the cost of main-
taining the branch network is considered, Caja's margin is still substantial,
and therefore personnel costs are excessively high.
53.       Other negative features of Caja's cost structure are the high
levels of arrears and bad debt collections and the low level of commission
income. Because of its general inefuiciency, particularly in dealing with
the public, Caja has not been able to develolp significant commission
revenues. Also, Caja's social objectives have meant that most of its port-
folio is placed at fixed, below market rates. Even though the institution
enjoys an abnormally high spread, its borrowing costs have been rising over
the past year, and the marginal cost of funds is now the higher CDT rates.
IV. FUTURE PROSPECTS
Caja's Changing Role
54.       Caja's main reason for existence is to assist a low income, dis-
perse population of small farmers with otherwise limited or no access to ins-
titutional credit and other financial services. With higher incomes, im-
provements in transport and communications, more and faster information
between producer and end consumer points, the needs of this population will
become more complex and sophisticated. Financial intermediation should not
only keep pace with these changes but also contribute to it by staying in
touch with the market and by developing the ability to innovate and translate
these new demands into appropriate financial instruments. In spite of its
recent crisis, the Colombian financial industry has proven to be responsive
to market stimuli. This was evidenced recently when following the introduc-
tion of liberalizing measures, financial markets witnessed the mushrooming of
a variety of specialized institutions. Caja should prepare itself to compete
likewise. For this it will need to improve the quality of its lending, its



ANNEX 2
- 49 -                              Page 15 of 16
ability to raise funds in substitution of official assistance (FFAP and
others) and to develop the financial and managerial skilli necessary for all
the above.
55.       Several changes will need to be initiated.  The major ones which
deal with personnel costs and training 6nd raising efficiency levels are
being addressed by the project. In the long-term, success of this
undertaking will depend on the level of commitment and understanding of the
project by Government and by Caja's management, their willingness to develop
a supporting culture inside the organization and foster a more cooperative
labor relations dialogue.
Benefits of the Institutional Development Project
56        The project would address Caja's key problems by defining and
implementing measures to improve efficiency, reduce its loan portfolio
arrears and improve its credit procedures, enhance its capacity to mobilize
financial savings using markeL mechanisms, improve support systems, and
rationalize its branch network. Caja would meet the following targets:
(a) total administrative costs would be held below the 1986 level in
real terms throughout the life of the project;
(b) current annual administrative costs as a percentage of current loan
portfolio would decrease from 18.3% at end 1986 to 13.7% at end
1990;
gc) branch office staff as a percentage of total staff would increase
from the present 84% to 90% by the end of 1990;
Cd) loan arrears, expressed as a percentage of loan portfolio, would be
reduced from the current 17% to 12% by end 1990;
(e) the amount of financial savings mobilized by Caja using market
mechanisms would be increased, so that the real compound growth
rate of its deposits (excluding interbank deposits) grows from 6.5%
in 1987 to 8.0% in 1990; and
57.       Achievement of these targets would mean that by the end of the
project, Caja's deposits would grow by 32% in real terms over the 1986 level,
and loan arrears be reduced by 29%. Staff costs as a percentage of total
operating revenue would fall from 70% in 1985 to 47% by 1990, and total
administrative costs would be held below the 1986 level in real terms, rather
than continuing to grow at an estimated 3% p.a. (the average growth rate
since 1981). As a result of these cost cuts combined with business growth,
productivity--in terms of annual administrative costs as a percentage of
average loaiL portfolio--would increase by 34%. Other performance indicators
are presented in Table 9.
58.       Net income has been used to estimate net cash flows created by the
project because of the difficulty in obtaining information necessary to
establish a cash flow table. The benefits of the institutional development
component would, of course, continue to accrue to Caja for several years



ANNEX 2
- 50 -                      Page 16 of 16
after the end of the project, but for simplicity only the impact during
1986-92 has been quantified, as follow:
Without Project       With Pro ect       Incremental Cash Flown
-_            _____________---__ __Col$ million) --------------------
1986             (8,397)              (8,397)                     0
1987            (12,148)             (12,148)                     0
1988            (10,364)              (1,664)                 8,700
1989            (14,136)              (2,129)                12,007
1990            (19,248)                 (34)                19,214
1991            (24,724)               6,390                 31,114
1992            (32,167)              12,119                 44,286
Source: Mission.
59.       These figures show that with the project, net profits would be
reported in 1991 (equivalent to US$15.4 million) and 1992 (US$26.2 million).
Without the project, losses would continue, reaching US$70 million p.a. by
1992 and accumulating to US$262 million. The net present value for the
incremental benefits at the OCC of 11% is Col$ 63.6 billion (US$160 million).
60.       By completion of the project, Caja would have become a somewhat
more modern, efficient and self-sustaining financial intermediary, mainly
through better systems and procedures, improved staff quality, increased
capacity for savings mobilization and updated premises. Institution-building
measures introduced through the project would simplify Caja's procedures and
decision-making process, and introduce improved support systems, namely an
accounting system and a management information system; a management process
that links Caja's strategic planning and budgeting processes; and wider
utilization of electronic date processing equipment. Caja would also
introduce a new remuneration package for its employees and rationalize the
branch network. Finally, to improve mobilization of savings, Caja would
introduce more attractive savings instruments and improve customer service.
61.       These improvements would, however, represent only the first step
towards Caja becoming a fully independent, self-sustaining financial
intermediary. Therefore, Caja would prepare a draft plan for becoming a
self-sustaining institution by the mid-1990s9 The plan would cover such
areas as capital structure, recapitalization, ownership, strategic and policy
plans, interest rates, savings mobilization and staff compensation.



- 51 -
J*.Cn 2
Pag I of 2
C5IN33
CAJ  G"        W rJn L OBM4rTPW
. . 1982-"
MblliM CoM$
ULMAN SUM 
AS8TS                         31-DeC482   S    31-DeC4r3    S    31-Dc-4104    S    31-Dec-85    S
Cah s  *d  eand                 10,624    11       8,526     7      11,855     6      15,831     7
Deposits at Catral &a*                    N                 N                 NA                mA
Govermt Securites                         PA                MA                                  NA
DA from Isi/Oe/    d                      PA                N                 M                 N
Other Miml   Risk Assets         2,566     3       3,251     3       5,562     3       6,830     3
Total Minimu  Risk Assets       13,189    14      11,779    10      17,416     9      22,662     9
Loans, Advance, Discomats       58,046    62      76,821    64      9,222    54      132,065    55
Past-DUe Loa                     3,060     3       5,999     5       7,181     4       8,476     4
Other late baivablas             1,447     2       1,987     2       2,717     1       4,061     2
Loa 1oe berva              1,689     2       2,676     2       3,325     2       3,786     2
Not laws                       60,864    65      82,132    68      105,795    57     140,856    58
Due fromlenk/Tim                         NA                 mA                MA                mA
Amto in Collectlon                        PA                mA                MA                MA
Govnernmt aceivable              3,637     4       5,416     5      37,444    20      50,423    21
Other Mrutabl  Securities                MA                                   MA                mA
Oiatmr Acception/lUAbiUtie              IA                MA                 NA                MA
Other laceivables                2,837     3       5,311    4       6,573      4       8,771     4
iquipant lmsed                            A                NA                 MA                NA
Total Norml Usk Amts            67,356    72      92,858    77     149,813    81     200,050    83
Total Blandg   uAts            60,548   86       104,637    87     167,229    90     222,711    92
Promsa  (Not)                    1,695     2       1,640     2       1,819     1       1,922     1
Accunlated Depreiation            867      1         999     1       1,164     1       1,333     1
Asst Uevaluetioo                 7,780     6       9,528     8       9,595     5       9,789     4
Insurance Division                492      1        747      1        731     0        1,413     :
Agricultural Inputs              1,887     2       2,177     4       4,567     2       3,094     1
Total Fixed Assets              11,853    13      14,292    12      16,733     9      16,217     7
Deforred Experse                    0    MA           0    MA           0    MA            0    MA
Sundry Asseo                      904      1         988     1       1,201     1       2,669     1
Total Other Assets            904     1         988     1       1,201     1       2,669     1
TOTAL ASSETS                    93,305   100     119,917   100    185,162   100    241,597   100



- 52 -                                   1     2
fhp 2 at 2
S^LOMC I8S  (eo  'd)
LZA&nIDJU &  QIMTT           31-1Oc-t2    X    31-De-43    2    31-Dec-84    2    31-D0c-85    2
Dko Opost1/Ot rw               14,558    16      20,197   17       24,416    13      34,757    14
SAwig                          25,$24    28      31,515    27      39,221    21      46,451    19
Tin DspoditsOthsr (CDT)         3,94      4       6,260     5       9,559     5      13,695     6
Othsr                           3,433     4       4,950     4       5,516     5      15,200     6
Other Deposits                           PA                NA                NA                N
Nhptabla CV                                                NA                EA                N
Du teo  relph *enb                                         NA                NA                NA
Totl Deposit                  47,809    51      63,225    53      52,012    44     110,162    46
state buer4" (1. erme y)                 PA                N                 PA                PA
"r, m, M   te.                 12,124    13      16,110   13       24,305    13      33,280    14
9Ie deo la bpAblica Dise.       4,436     5       5,467     5       7,519     4      11,425     5
AiD Lfoio (a0m)                    78    0           55    0           16    0            7    0
kraiNc    6 As* sed             2,740     3       3,490     3       4,768     3       4,931     2
boed  Payable                   7,612     a       9,054     8      10,526     6      12,443     5
Appro. ltir mt Frq.            19,633    21      27,961    23      32,156    17      39,234    16
Inurwace Liabilities               43    0           63    0           96    0           S6    0
bAs. for L unrafe                 421     0         631     1         582    0          9'0     0
Other Ltabllitil                3,584     4       6,115     5       6,046     3       8,489     4
Accrued Liabilities                      NA                NA                N                 N
Total Senior Liabilitia        9$,480   106     132,190   110     168,029    91     220,966    91
Subordited Debt                          E LA                                Nm                m
DivwA   yable                            ELA               NA                NA                NA
Deferred Incoem                         Ut                El                  l               En
Minoriy Int ert                          NA                EL                EL                N
Total 1labuitI                95,480   106     132,190   110    166,029   91       220,966    91
Capital kock (Subecribed)       7,417     S       8,176     7      10,899     6      13,579     6
Acc"laete Loses               (20,413)  (22)   (30,043)  (25)    (3,425)   (2)    (3,102)   (1)
Capital surplus                          EL                NA                ELA               M
Ave    llm  crves                         A                NA                NA                NA
LgAlbasrve                          4    0            4    0            4    0            4    0
Ast  vewaluatico t  rao         7,790     S       9,537     S       9,604     5       9,797     4
Acc.a Lrn1in   Lnarmne             27    0           52    0           52    0           52    0
Other basere                              I                EL                EL                NA
IJDIDSD NP8T5                           NA                NA                NA                MA
NET  ORMI                      (5,175)  (6)   (12,274)  (10)       17,133     9      20,631     9
TL LLUA  6 NIT WO              93,305   100     119,917   100     185,163   100    241,597   100



.53-
CGJA AIdAMZA                             PRO=lU~   ~     ~
?iaTacAll Statmata  1962-1965
(billlon CotS)
31-Dec-62    S    31-D0ec83    S    31-Dec464    Z   .31-De"-5    S
Interest Incecs                  13,196    91       17,787    92       22,804    92       34,073    93
Interest Rxpme                    6,932    46        9,511    49       12,874    52       16,750    51
Hot Interest Inof n               6,265    43        8,276    43        9,930    40       15,322    42
Cbossion & fe  nco                  6f9      6       1,217      6       1,407      6       1,738      5
Lnet TInce  & ID Debt hacv.         447      3         414      2         632      3         950      3
Total Operating Rvemou           14,542   100       19,417   100       24,843   100       36,761   100
Net Int. Incn, Cbun.  & Other   7,611    52          9,906    51       11,969    48       18,011    49
Ls:
Cgo tsaioas                      14     0           16     0           19     0           19     0
Other Admin. Expenses         4,182    29        6,181    32        6,370    26        7,537    21
Depreclation                    200      1         207      1         200      1         249     1
IJcollected Accoumts          3,355    23        2,789    14        1,973     8        2,914     8
Net Operating Inco                 (141)   -1          713      4       3,407    14        7,292    20
Other                             2,268    16        2,352    12        2,298     9        3,462     9
Provisions Loan Loss                        m                  Nk                PA                 MA
Insurance                             0    NA          691     4        1,648     7        2,451     7
Sale of Agricultural Goods          616      4         689     4        1,357     5        1,915     5
Overaccrual of Expenses           1,299      9       5,728    30        3,040    12        2,419      7
Not Inc. before Personnl Esp.   4,042    28         10,173    52       11,749    47       17,539    48
Personnel Expenses           18,042   124       19,802.5  32       15,174    61       17,347    47
Nst Profit after Other Ad 1   (13,999)  -96         (9,630)  -50       (3,425)  -14          192      1



CWB1A
C&UA ACwiA DLurm DIDCU3mfI-I mXum
CAA *AIST1IM    wnm     190131
Pro1.wte VimociAl stetemata 1961-i99
1blance an"                                                            (hiUfLL   cani)                                                        Wick Project
_ato                       12/31/15   Z   12/31/8A    X   U2/31/57   Z   12/31/US   S   12131/U    I   12/31/*         1   12/31/91   x    2/31/        x
h Md di__                    IS.131     7   22,016       7   27,36       8   33,950      *   42,014      a   51,77       5   63.223      I   7S.231       a
06pe1ta at Cmatral o              0    Oa         0    oh         0    NA         0    la         0    la          0    NA         0    ML         0     a1
oe Securtles                           0          0     a1        0    E1         0    oh         0    oh          0     a               EL              EL
ltereat tr      a                 0     0       762     0       7"      0       707      0      Go.9     0       GU      0       475     S       44S      0
Q_alqOCY  1Me_t_              61.630    3    6.792       3   11.         3   13.0        3   17.312      3   21.519      3   2V.5         3   22.97       3
Total I6ni_m risk _rne       22."2      9   31,590    11   39,117    11   46.54         11   60.065    12   74.o6      12   91.223    11  112,633    11
Hot Lam.  Mwnc, 0rncut  132,228    55  16.,193    S7  212,016            9  266.162    62  332.752    64  414.277    61  SIS.4    62  .412139    62
Pet-_00 LAN                  6,476     4    5,410      3   10.601       3   10,6U       2    9,913      2    4,143      1   41,420      I   5.793       1
Other Lote tc(Covern xc)      4,0S1      2    5,617      2    6,361      2    5,323      1    3.32S      1    2,071      0   2S.719       3   32I.0       3
La Lose ae              4,039      2    5.046      2    6,361      2    7.965      2    9,933      2    8.201       1   1S.473      2    19.2A4     2
Total Ldas                  140,56   5s  177,444    60  222.619    62  274,147    64  336,0W0   65  412,205    6.  572.510    76 712.774    69
Current yawr omrde           13,123      5   16,119      I   21,202      6   26.616      6   33.27S           41.428      7   S,577      6   64.214      I
Amin" La coUection                     PA              PA              PA               NA              ML              oh               a               la
GCoverngmt Noc               32,024    13   30.522    10   29.020        I   27.516      I   21.016      5   24,514       4   23,012      6   21.S10      2
Intwreat  oeslLvabln          8.45(     4   10.092      3   12.72k       4   13.306      3   16.636      3   20,714      3   25,769       3   32.107      3
Leae to for.1qm currael a     9,943     4    12,421      4   IS.513      4   10,190      4   23,521      5   26,651       5   40,071      S   49.694      5
Otint rreeiveblas             8.771     4   11.179       4   14,025      4   17,211      4   21,173      4   2S,969      4   36.046       4   44".9D      4
_quiomt 1esaoi 01                                       0               Ha              0 mi            Ml 01                            AL              '
Total MDroal rink *asot     200.050    63  211.657    62  2,948    12  351,434    _2  423,432    82  512.251    U2  M17.454    81  411.190    96
Total Bnkiq  Meats          222,711    92  273,247    93  222,9I6    93  399,998    93  483.477    93  56,355    94  761,6.77    94  973,024    9f
-      -      -        -       -               -     2-35   -           -      -        -      -                -     
Pr lea (mat)                  1.922      1    2,354      1    2,660      1    3,461      1    4,171      1    5.005       1    1,006      1   7.207 
Acc_. depsrcletie             1.333      1    1.760      1    1,935      1    2,131      0    1.342      0    2.570      0    2.81        0    3.43      0
_Aet Byaluatie                9.739     4   10.706       4   11,614      3   12,SU       3   13,500      3   14.464       2   15,497      2   16.604      2
In ur -e divtalca             1.413     1    1,731       1    2,103      1    2,544      1    3,061      1    3,679      1    4,415       1    5.29d      1
gr"  inpat                    3.094      1    3,094      1                    01 1.69    1    7.557      1    9.361       1   11.54S      I   14.20       1
Total Flned Mts              16,217      7   lb6,5      6   21,463      6   24,642      *   2W.294      5   32.409       5   37,413      4   43.379      4
Dalerrpd 5pew                     0    oh         0    0k               MA                              IA              01                               o h
Smidry Aeets                  2,669     1    3,302       1    4.052      1    4,952      1    i027       1    7,301       1    SAM53      1   10,730      1
Total Other  _est e           2.669      1    3,302      1               1    40952      1    6.927       1    7.301      1    6.O53      1   10.730      1
Total Assets                241,5      100  295,244   100  358,710   !00  429,592   OD  517,797   100  621,146   IOD   3."3    100 1,027,932   100
-  -                                                                    -   -   -                                       -B _
0
Nwmmber 10. IN6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h



1AMSIA
CAJA AGRARIA INrTITUtIONAL DWEIL413W POWJECr
Projected Fliancial Statemete 1986-1992
i   (billlfon CbolS)
Balance Shiet                                                                                                                                         Witb Project
Uibilitles *nd Equdty        12/31/85    X    12/31186   X    12/31/87    2    12/31/88   X    12/31/19   2    12/31/90    S    12/31/91    2    12/31/92    Z
De.nd Deposita/other           34,767     14   44,319     15   56,4b6      16   71,346      17   89,781      17   112,514     18  140.418      17  175,241      17
Savinags                      46,481      19   56,939     19   70,564      20   67,090      20   107,043    21   131,021    21   160.369    19  1.f292    19
Tl e depefits/other            13,695     6    17,316      6    16,424      5   20,964       5   27,311       5    35,753      6    71,426      9   80,621       a
Other                           15.20      6    16,819     6    21,202      6    26,616      6    33,275      6   41,428       7   51,577       6   64,214       6
Other deposlts                           NA         0    NA                NA               NA               NA              Nh                NA               NA
Nelotiable CD's                           NA        0    NA                NA               hA               NA               NA               NA               NA
Mm to forR 8nks                          PA         0    NA                NA               NA               _A         0    Na                 A               Na
Total deposit.                110,162    46   135,393    46   164.653    46   205.936    48   257.411        S0  320.716      51  423.791      51   S16.569     S0
NMm world bmk loon                  0    MA         0    NA      2,360      1    8,280       2    9,630       2    11,220      2         0    NA          0     NA
FFAP, WI, ETC                  33.280    14   37,952    13   52,518        15   56,672      13   66,822      13   76.862    12   79.814    10   70.596           7
Banco de la Republics DIS      11,425      5    16,819     6    21,202      6    27,627      6    36.030      7   46,791       7   66.178    10   87.377         9
AID Lownc (bor)                     7     0         7      0         a      0         a      0         a      0         6      0         a      0         9      0
Branches and agecede            4,931     2    5.887       2    6,481       2    10,646      2    13.310      3    16.571      3   20,631       2   25,4ft       2
bonds payable                  12,443      5    12,956     4    13,380      4    13,762      3    14,09S      3    14,377      2    14,665      2    14,.56      1
Approp Detir mnt PLan          39,234     16   49,504      17   56,343     16   68,477      16   60,039      15   93.166      15  tOe,445      13  126.230    12
Insurance Lab                     86      0       toe      0       127      0       149      0       175      0       216      0       267      0       330      0
Mea. for Insurance                910     0      1,149     0     1,354      0     1,569      0     1,857      0     2.162      0    2.516       0     2.929      0
Other Liabitties                8.489     4    10.399      4    12,635      4    15,288      4    18,422      4    22,107      4    26.53       3   31.834       3
Other Credits                       0    NA         0     NA         0     NA     1.011     NA    3.972       1   10.131       2   46.757       0    79.2J2      6
Total Senior Liabilities      220,966    91   270,175    92   334,659    93  409.445        95   501,771    97  614.327    98 609.600    97  955,738            93
Subordinated Debt                  0    NA          0     NA         0    NA          0      N         0    NA          0     NA         0    NA          0    NA
Dividende Payable                  0    NA          0    NA          0    NA          0      N         0     NA         0     NA         0     NA         0     NA
Deferred lnc                        0    NA         0    NA          0    NA          0      N         0    NA          0     NA         0    NA          0     NA
Maority Interest                    0    NA         0     NA         0     NA         0      N         0    NA          0     NA         0     NA         0     N
Total Liabillitie             220,966     91  27,175    92  334,659        93  409,445      95   501,171     97  614,327    98   609.600       97  955,73      3W
Capital Stnck(Subscrbd)        13,679      6    13.679     5    13,879      A    13,679      3    13,6,679    13,679           2    13,879      2    13,579      1
Accis. Gian(Lo_ees)           (3,102)    (1)  (2,910)   (1)   (7,604)   (2) (15,366)   (4) (23,539)   (5)  (31,996)    (S) (39,442)   (5)  36,704)   (4)
Law 68 Cj.                         0     NA    3,500       1    7,175       2    11.034      3    15.065      3    19.340      3    39,6        5   62,697       a
L_ 68londs                         0    NIA       751      0       751      0       751      0       751      0       751      0       751      0       751      0
LeaUl leseerw                      4      0               NA               NA               NA               NA               NA               NA               N
_mt leluattio  "nsrvee         9,797      4    9.797       3    9,797       3    9,797       2    9.797       2    9.797       2    10,497      1   11.247       1
Acc. Eanel Inwarce                 52     0        52      0        52      0        52      0        52      0        52      0        62      0        74      0
law 68 Sonbouds                    0      A         0    NA          0     NA         0     NA         0    NA          0     NA         0     NA         0    NA
Undividsd Protita                        N                NA               NA               NA               N                NA               NA               NA
Net Nerth                      20,631     9    25.070      6   24,050       7   20.147       5    16.026      3    11.621      2   25.393       3   72,144       7
Total Ltiab. & not Ibrth      241.597    100  295.24      100  356,710    100  429,592    100  517.797    100  626,146    100  634,93    100 1.027,932    105          i   iI
a   a   -  a       -        -       a        -       a        -       a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e 



4XWOSIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSIUNMEwminlouwr PoiJCr
Frojected Finmela Stata"ta 1986-1992
(billios Coln).
Balance S9"et                                                                                                                                      VIlth Prject
InAM  Sat mt t              12/31/85    Z    12/31/86    Z    12/31/87    X    12/31/IS    Z    12/31/89    X    12/31/90    2    12/31/91    2    12/31/92    z
Interest Lnc                  34,073     93   40,336      93    50,597     93    62,210     93    76,206    93   93,412       93   130,276    94   162,193    94
Interest Expense              18,750     51   24,220      56   33,276    61    41,047       61    50.909    62    63.109    63    77,219       56   87.865      51
Net Intereat Income            15,322    42    16,116    37    17,321      32    21,163     32    25,297    31    30,303      30   53,0S7    36   74,328    43
Cboimulon & Foe Income          1,738     5    2,129       5    2,587       5     3,130      5    3.72        5    4,526       5     5,432      4     6,518      4
Invat Income+0 Debt R            950      3     1 055      2     1.331      2     1 669      2    2 063       3    2 591       3    3 303       2    4,075       2
Total Operating Eevenum       36761 i          43452i    1O0    54.515    1O0             ioo 1ih          I I oo 13I    I           U I     l     i7?7M  loo
Not Int.nc.. Come  0th        18,011    49    19,300    44    21,239      39   25,962      39   31,153      38    37.420     37   61,791            S4.921     49
-:-
Cb4  & Wrld Bank to (bt         19     0        23      0        29      0        36      0        45      0        55      0        66      0        79      0
Other d. Expenses           7,537     21     9,695     22    12,250     22    15,i19     23    18.216     22    21,862     22    26.759     19   32.753      19
Depreciation                     249      1       306      1       371      1       49       1       541      1       649      1       779      1       935      1
Uniollect Acounts 2a914                   8     3,364      a    4,240       8     4,791      7    5324        6     4,971      5    12.121      9    15.0        9
Net Operating Income           7,292     20     5,913     14    4,348       8     5,567      a     7,024      9    9,862      10   22,066      16   36.063      21
Other                           3,462     9    4,241       10    5,152      9     6,234      9     7.512      9    9,015       9    10,618      8    12,961     21
Provisicon Loan La..                     NA               hA               NA               PA               IA               IIA              MA               MA
Insurmnce                      2,451      7    2,769       6     3,364      6    4,071       6    4,905       6     5,866      6     7,063      5    6,476       5
Sale Agric. Goods              1.915      5     1,366      3     1,710      3    2,131       3    2.645       3     3,269      3    4,041       3    4,994       3
Overacrual of Expenoes         2.419      7    2,904       7    3,548       6    4,101       6    4,843       6     5,695      6     6,697      5     7 876      5
Net Inc Before Personnel      17539      48    17,193     40    18,033     33   22,104      33   26,929      33   33,747      34   50.686      36   70,391      41
Peraonnel Expenses          17,347    47   21,887      50   2 ,795      47    30.276    45    35,388    43   41,192        41   47,947      34   55,811      32
Net Profit After other Ad        192      1   (4.694)  -11    (7,762)  -14    (8,172)  -12    (8,459)  -10    (7,445)   -7           2,736      2    14,560      8
No_mer 12, 1986



57-                                  MANNEX 2
Table 5
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RATIO OF SAVINGS TO NEW CREDIT
CAJA AGRARIA
073-
0.72-
0 71
07-
069 -
vw 0 S83 -
067 
065 
064 -
(~063 
o    062-
75        767I7                              0      8       a         5      8
o     06 -
z
U0    058 
0 57-
056 
0 55
054
053
052
75      76      77       7s      79      so       SI      821      s3      84
'IEAPS



- 58 -
AEX 2
rabl 6
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL LENDING BY USE
CA.% AGMNA 1352
RURAL LE[INCN BY 11SE
CA. MAMrAA 1985
OTHER (4 BC)
RUPAL IWW#_ (10 7X)                      9.aRt TCIM 'prVFS (1o 7%)
INFWASTC (183')
It-"Plt 'PVff. (22 4 ' 



COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overdue Portfolio Statistics
Overdue Portfolio                                Statistics
Less than Doubtful
Total           1year       Recovery   TOTAL             B/A          CIA           D/A         C/D
Years    Portfolio
(A)           (B)           (C)        (D)            ()()(G)()
-------(Col$ million)----------    -------z-
(Dec.)
1975        10,945           872          389-      1,261           8.0          3.5          11.5         30.8
1976        12,891           952          397       1,349           7.4           3.1         10.5         29.4
1977        11,821),       1,005         439        1,444           5.6          2.5           8.1         30.4
1978        22,649         1,591         739        2,330           7.0          3.3          10.3        31.1
1979        29,071         2,0)18      1,560        3,578           6.9          5.4          12.3        43.6
1980        35,172         2,652       1,897-       4,549           7.5           5.4         12.9         34.2
1981        44,930         2,818       2,471        5,289           6.3          5.5          11.8        46.6 
1982        63,963         5,026       3,019        8,105           7.9          4.8          12.7        38-0
1983        88,131         6,927       5,999       12,926           7.9          6.8          14.7        46.4
3984       112,915         7,991       7,034       15,025           7.1          6.2          13.3        46.8
1985       142,312        14,850-      8,636-    23,485            10.4          6.0          16.5        316.8
Source: Caja Agraria. Published Statements and updated Information from Caja's financial unit.



-60 -
AM  2
cSa  mLm                                      Mible 8
Ca,M          *vh Std_
Ruib      DidsLi
CauulwAr     Ibtal UrIoa10h1   lel TbWTul    Interst  Pnrsxuoml   FM                       Qxwuse
Ya       ?oetfoJo    1ftfoUo    Amust                     & M         pes_  FlAP    Pr1t s1M
1974      8,786        6,2086       na          n.ea       n.e.        n.ae        874      10
1975     10,556        7,5%6        17,437     2,563         896     1,051       1,950      12
1976     12,500        9,837        21,731     2,948       1,103     1,803       3,017      15
1977     17,381       16,668        27,325     4,249       1,475     2,126       2,975      20
1978     21,910       17,660        32,646     5,568       2,111     2,677       4,201      23
1979     27,511       20,962        40,656     7,820       2,738     3,819       5,145      29
1980     33,275       30,920        52,596    11,093       3,437     5,612       5,865      38
1961     42,459       36,365        64,162    13,848       4,887     7,291       8,375      48
1982     60,884       49,676        93,305    18,725       6,931    18,036      12,570      59
1983     82,132       68,630       119,917    28,877       9,510    19,803      18,958      69
1964    105,796       92,500       185,163    33,184      12,874    15,174      29,944      82
1985    140,856       118,000      241,597    47,008      18,750    17,347      33,667     100
Gh'th Rst 
1974-65     4.2          5.9           5.2       L8           9.6        6.8       13.0
1974-80   - 0.1          4.5         - 0.1        6.3         3.8       10.5       iu.0
1986435    10.0          7.7          11.8       10.0         15.7       3.3       16.9
a/  IWre 1974 dat are anaf evaLiable, gpruth rate have bon tsli ltetd from 1975.



- 61 -
AMU  2
Table9
COLOMIA
CAJA ARIA INSTIUONAL DEVELOFIN  P.OJEC2
Kay Indicators
1986        1987          1988         1989        1990
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
EFFICIENCY
jut. Exp./Dep. & Borrowed Funds  14.62           15.75         16.30        16.59       17.22
Interest Inc./Interost Expenses   1.48            1.53          1.62         1.57        1.52
Net Interest Margin                29.89         24.55         34.39        32.24       30.54
Operating Margin                    5.38          2.27         16.30        15.07       15.24
Personnel Exp./Fin. Exp.           69.02         64.75         58.36        54.84      49.51
Personnel Exp./Nst Int. Inc.    174.85          192.47        114.08       117.46      113.69
Personnel Expenses/Avg. Assets   11.74           12.05         11.86        11.42       10.89
Total Adm. Exp./Tot. Oper. Rev.  69.68           63.44         53.16        51.27      47.11
Total Adm. Exp./Deposits           28.71         27.50         25.34        22.99       20.78
Personnel Exp./Loans               13.20         12.69         11.73        10.73       9.81
Total Admin./Loans                 18.29         17.61         16.30        14.93       13.68
RELIANCE
TNW/Risk Assets                     9.28          6.27          1.16         1.37        0.13
TNW/Loans                          13.99          9.01          1.60         1.83       0.16
Retirement Liabilities/
Total Liabilities                 18.46         18.64         17.29        16.58       15.63
Govt. Funds/Total Liabilities    20.24           18.23         17.54        15.75       14.55
ASSET QUALITY
Loan Loss Res/NonPerf. Loans        0.58          0.74          0.92         1.17        1.47
Loan Loss Res/Total Loans           2.88          4.89          5.01         5.06        5.14
Charge Off/Loan Loss Res.           0.67          0.40          0.31         0.28       0.24
Overdues/Total Loans               16.62         16.89         14.85        13.95       12.68
LIQUIDITY
MRA/Dep. & Borr.                   22.75         22.18         21.51        21.16       20.54
Loans/Deposits                    128.92        127.59        124.58       123.16      119.22



XHES~~~~~~~~~Ii                  6-4  1
if A U                               |



- 63 -
ANR    3
Table 1
WAA AMARIA DMfNlQ  TM   Wra
Project Costs - Bracth Offoes ic  exroinits
-rojeat Year-
Wkit             1          2         3       Tbtal
Branch lTprovemwt                           (US$000)           3,530     4,520      5,570     13,620
Total Base Costs                     (US$000)           3,530     4,520     5,570      13,620
of which:
Local ieee Cost (85X)                     (US$000)           3,060     3,900      4,720     11,680
Physical Mtingtmcy                        (US0)                306       390        472      1,168
3flation Factor a/ (Adj.for Dev.)                                1.04      1.05       1.06
Total Local Cbsta                    (US$000)           3,500     4,500     5,500      13,500
Fbreign Bue Costs (15)                     (US$000)             470       620        850      1,940
Ptysical Cmtingency                       (US$0C0)              47        62         85        194
Tnflation Pactor a/                                              1.16      1.17       1.18
Total Foreign COsta                  (US$000)             600       800     1,100       2,500
Total COpment Costs                  (US$00)           4,100      5,300     6,600      16,000
I a Ebse Costs d/                           C0b$ m               590       753        911      2,254
Physical Contingency                      Col$ m                59        75         91        225
Inflation Factor a/                       Col$ m                 1.55      1.82       2.15
Total local Costs                    Col$ m             1,006     1,508     2,155       4,669
Forein  ase Costs d/                        Cbl$ m                91       120        164        375
Physical  cmtingnicy                      COl$ m                 9        12         16         37
Inflation Factor a/ (Adj.for Dev.) c/                            1.72      2.03      2.39
Total Foreign Costs                 0Cl$ m                172       268       431         871
Total tpcernts Costs                 Col$ m             1,178     1,776     2,586       5,540
a/  Mid-year rate local and forein (hmex 3, Table 7).
b/ Local inflation index divided by exchange rate index.
c/   Foreign inflation index ultiplied by exchenge rate index.
dJ Conmerted at the rate of Cbl$ 193 - US$1.00.
1986.



- 64 -
ARM51 3
0OLOBIA
s   CJA AGRARIA INSTIT9tUONAL DQVEWPM?   PROJECT
Prolect Costs - Office Equipment
-PLoject YO&-
Unit      0          1          2       3       Total
Project Unit
Personal Computers)
Calculator         )                 US$000     45                                        45
Offi'e Equipment  )
Heed Office
Personal computers                   US$000                       250        250        50
Training
Over-Head Projectorre
Video Equipment                      US$000              65         75                   140
Data Frocesaing
Computers
Equipment                            US$000                               10,650      10,650
Total  ease Costs              US$000      45       65       325    10,900       11,335
of which:
Local Base Costs (302)               US$000      13      19        98      3,270       3,400
Physical Contingency                US$000       2        2         9        327         340
Inflation Factor a/ (AdJ for Dev) bt              1.02    1.04       1.05      1.06
Total Local Costs             US$000      15       22       112      3,813      3,962
Foreign Ease Costs (70%)             US$000     32       46       227      7,630       7,935
Physical Contingency                 USS000      3        4        24        763         794
Inflation Factor a/                              1.14    1.16        1.17      1.18
Total Foreign Costs           US$000      40       58       294      9,904     10,296
Total Component Costs         US$000      55      80        406    13,717      14,258
Local Baes Costs d/                  Col$ m      2.5      3.7       18.9     631.1       656.2
Physical Contingency                 Col$ m      0.4      0.4        1.7      63.1        65.6
Inflation Factor 8/                              1.31    1.55        1.82      2.15
Total Local Costs             Col$ a       3.8      6.4      37.5   1,492.5    1,540.2
Foreign Base Costs d/                Col$ m      6.2      8.9      43.8   1,472.6    1,531.5
Physical Contlngency                 Col$ m      0.6      0.8       4.6      147.3       153.3
Inflation Factor a/ (Adj for Dev) c/             1.46    1.72       2.03       2.39
Total Forelgn Costs           Col$ m       9.9    16.7       98.3   3,871.6    3,996.5
Total Component Costs         Col$ a      13.7    23.1      135.8   5,364.1    5,536.7
a/   Mid-year rate local and foreign (Annex 3, Table 7).
b/   Local inflation index divided by exchange rate index.
cl Foreign inflation index multiplied by exchange rate index.
t/   Converted at the rate of Col$ 193 - US$1.00.
December 1986.



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Program
------Project Year -----
Unit         0       1        2       3      Total
Consultants
Lead Consultant                       M/M          4       12      12        12        40
Branch Development
and Credit Procedures               M/M                  24      48        48       120
Organization and MIS                  M/M                  20      36        18        74
Personnel Development                 M/M                  24      24        12        60
Data Processing                       M/M                  12      36        30        78
Total                           M/M          4      92      156       120      372
US$000      36      828   1,404    1,080    3,348
of which:
Local Base Costs (50%)               US$000       18      414     702       540    1,674
Inflation Factor a! (AdJ for Dev) b/               1.02    1.04    1.05       1.06
Total Local Costs              US$000       18     430      737       572    1,757
Foreign Base Costs                   US$000       18      414     702       540    1,674
Inflation Factor a/                                1.14    1.16    1.17       1.18
Total Foreign Costs            US$000       21     480      821      637    1,959
Total Component Costs          US$000       39     910   1,558    1,209    3,716
Local Base Costs d/                  Col$ m        3.5    79.9   135.5    104.2    323.1
Inflation Factor a/                                1.31    1.55    1.82       2.15
Total Local Costs              Col$ m        4.6   123.8   246.6    224.0    599.0
Foreign Base Costs d/                Col$ m        3.5    79.9   135.5    104.2    323.1
Inflation Factor a/ (Adj for Dev) c/               1.46    1.72    2.03       2.39
Total Foreign Costs            Col$ m        5.1   137.4   '175.1    249.0    666.6
Total Component Costs          Col$ m        9.7   261.2   321.7    473.0  1,265.6
a/   Mid-year rate local and foreign (Annex 3, Table 7).
b/   Local infletion index divided by exchange rate index.
c/   Foreign inflation index multiplied by exchange rate index.
d/   Converted at the rate of Col$ 193 - US$1.00.
December 1986.



AM   3
COLOSIA
CAJA A-L11 VSTW fl vgMwN  PWC
Trainios Proarm
Cours                                           Total
length       N.. of           Nl. of           Ojurse
Course                                   Days         Courses        Prticipents         Days
Management Davelopnt                           3               8              100              25
Basic Mougent                                  5              50             800              250
Finaal Analysis                                5              50             800              250
Advanced Financial Awalysi                     5               5             100               25
Custosr Service Attitudes                      5             200           4,000            1,000
Basic Accounting Concepts                      5             50              800              250
Productivity M a_asent                         5             50              S0               250
Colombian tanking                              5              50             700              250
Introduction to Syste m                        5             50              600              250
Introduction to Personal Computers             5             50              600              250
Total                                                   560            9,300            2,800
Training Costs                  Unit         Yr. I          Yr. 2           Yr. 3           Total
Pfrticipants Expenwes         US$13/day       160             220            220              600
Counselors and Assistants    US$100/day        80             100            100              280
Material                      US$25/day        20              20             30               70
Total Bas Costs                              260              340            3S0              950
Of Which:
Local Base Costs (60S)         US$000        208             272             280              760
Inflation Factor a/ (Adi for Dav)  /           1.04             1.05           1.06
Total Local Costs              uS000         216              286            297              799
Foreign Base Costs (202)       US$000         52              68              70              19(
Inflation Factor 5                             1.16             1.17           1.18
Total Forelgn Costs            US$000         60               80             83              221
Total Component Costs          US$000        276              366            380            1,027
Local Base Costs d/            Col$M          40.1             52.5           54.0            146.6
Inflation Factor I                             1.55             1.82           2.15
Total local Costs              Col$t          62.2..           95.5          116.2            273.9
Forelgn Bas  Costs             COI$M          10.0             13.1            13.5            36.6
Inflation Factor V/ (Adj for Dav) C/           1.72             2.03           2.39
Total Foreign Costs            C01w$          17.2            26.6            32.3             76.1
Total Compoewnt Costs          Col$M          79.4            122.1          148.5            35d.n
a/ Mid-year local and foreign (Annex 3, Table 7).
b/ local inflation index dLvided by exchange rate index (mid-year).
c/  Foreign inflation index *ultlplied by exchange rate index (mid-year).
d/ Convrted at cth rate of Col$193 a US$1.00.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implement0lon Schedule
PvO Yewr    0                I                 2                  3
Activity                              .                             -                        
Semestmw    2nd      1st      2nd      li       2nd       1st     2nd
Rationalize banche and                                                         _
Improve Crodh Procedures
Pilot Develpnt
Raionolize Organizatwon
Manaogement Information System
D.stgn
Implementatlon
Personnel Development
Personnel Incentives
Traiinng                                         -
Data Processing Development
Determirne Needs-Personal Computer
-Large SystN
Equipment Procurement-Smnal
And Installdato      -Large                                         -        -        -
World Bank-30726:2



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
Table 6
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule a/
Disbursement
IBRD                     During Semester                 Cumulative
Fiscal Year   Semester         us$ Million        US$ million          Percent
1988           2                2.4                 2.4                13
1989           1                0.6                 3.0                20
2                0.6                 3.6                24
1990           1                2.7                 6.3               42
2                2.8                 9.1               61
1991           1                2.8                11.9                79
2                2.7                14.6                97
1992           1)               0.4                15.0              100
2)
a/   No standard profile for LAC projects of this type.  Schedule has been
adjusted for initial deposit in the Special Account.
April 1, 1987.



69 -
ANNEX 3
Talle 7
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Price Coa'iingencies and Devaluation
Inflation Index a/      Exchange
Calendar           Local    Foreign        Rate C/      Rate of Devaluation
Year            Cost       Cost b/        IndexX d/
1984             .82        .993           .66                28.3
1985            1.00       1.000          1.00                51.2
1986            1.20       1.120          1.23                20.0
1987            1.42       1.154          1.37                14.4
1988            1.67       1.165          1.60                16.5
1989            1.97       1.177          1.87                16.5
1990            2.33       1.189          2.17                16.5
1991            2.68       1.230          2.42                11.1
a/   All indices are end-of-year.
b/   MUV Index 9/12/86.
c/   As of 12/31/85 US$1.00 - Col$ 172.2.
d/   1987-91 figures based on current understanding of Government policy.
January 19, 1987



ANNEX 3
-70-                                     Chart 1
COLOMIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPiIENT PROJECT
Proljct Organization
I         .ard Ifretoro
[Gerwrai Ma-
E    PD"ct rtor    I
|         | ~~~~Mond   & Evauaio
==~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ - -- -   Cosltat
kandChO PDosdulaM entl HU                          manogement wjpmati       Dota Procesuing 0ov.lopm:nt
adrd  rsnand Ogwkanizanon  and EUnW Computing
World Bank-30726:1



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARLA INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Sector Background
Al   Rural Financial Markets Sector Study - Report No. 5860-CO
B.   Project Background
B3   Preparation Report by FAO/Caja
Project Brief
Resumen General
Componentes Agricola, Ganadero, Commercializacion y Asistencia Tecnica
and Institutional Development
Eatudio Sobre Mercado de Productos Agricolas Perecederos (4 volumes)
El Credito de la Caja Agraria Durante 1983-1985
B2   Caja Agraria -  Informe Estados Financieros al 31 Dic., 1985 (2 volumes)
-  Inforne de Labores, Semestre A, 1985
- Plan Estrategico 1986-1990
- Presupuesto Semestre B, 1986
- Evaluacion Financiera 1982-1985
- Costos Agricolas de Produccion
- Costoo Pecuarios de Produccion
- Credit Manual (3 volumes)
B3   Financial Data and Simulation Model by IID, May 1986
C.   Working Papers
Cl   The National Economy and the Agricultural Sector
C2   Institutional Strengthening Component



NOTES



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20315R
1-h.                           A. t.  700000 t$-- ;..N,. .lT AC
- I ~ ~ ~ ~ A
.   -7t               0_1+ v_  /   (14)           i  i  {               i                                  *§  
/. (AGDALINA       m                ' X 2.       ,
, , $^ \ M / < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ei Freae C"a6                                    10 d' "v  .m1e C'.oa.l  _l
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORH R                                            WecAs       Th   hn b  w, po"  ay The wa  o ' am owd* IN at c   of e
7;NW  s W 0 WM  kNW V sOf T-eV 01 F)  Cd,O01, 06N
do                                                                                     10' 51 mUSE Of NW 10'DO  0,   -vf   a ..l0 0. of N   E   Z U E L
> T ~~~~OROA                                  DE                 V   E   OU E   
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S AWAT^ND     
44,~~~~~~~~~4
PACIFIC                     - -N6RT'- fWSTERN
c  C  H(02 Co  ,,                                  ' '>w     ,fx *oL(50:)i 4 
OCEAN                                                         /  C ALA   AALDA5  N A A I
'   (t   7 't         U-1CtNA ANCA)                (13) 
[     )   )   x      \ TA_                        V I C H A DPA
_I-               (24)In2- PC
- ,iO      * THI fSG U A L L     A L I A                                          -A
& I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 
r' ' ~~~;ssvrHwEsrgR~~N "                          S)  nclu,  > ,    -   , w\
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL  \%     
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                 <         ^M^zoNAS*    ' 
(30)   1dumbe ofOepas38ou hanILchrUesIN  
C A U C           (39*Alm D o   ib                 o    d    /
-   -  Dup@tmSrW    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~0UA   IA   
P~~~~~ ~ ~ U I       U M A   13
KIL OMF E RS 
_  -   hDOiPOToW  HSedCt r
(30_                                                           *-~ of                          rrWrdWmh     



