Document of
The World Bank
FOR oFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14690
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(LOAN 2909-CO)
JUNE 28, 1995
Natural Resources Management & Rural Poverty Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso (Col$)
Average Exchange Rates
1987 - US1$ = Col$ 242.6
1988 - US$1 = Col$ 299.2
1989 - US$1 = Col$ 384.6
1990 - US$1 = Col$ 502.2
1991 - US$1 = Col$ 622.4
1992 - US$1 = Col$ 680.7
1993 - US$1 = Col$ 813.2
1994 - US$1 = CoA$ 800.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Caja         -     Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero
Caja Agraria
(Agricultural, Industrial and Mineral Bank)
CAS          -     Country Assistance Strategy
FINAGRO    -       Fondo para el Financiamiento del Sector Agropecuario
(Agricultural Sector Financing Fund)
IBM          -     International Business Machines
ICR          -     Implementation Completion Report
PC           -     Personal Computers
TA           -     Technical Assistance
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(LOAN 2909-CO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .......................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY .......................................................                          ii
PART I:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives ................................1
B. Implementation Record and Major Factors
Affecting the Project .................................3
C. Project Sustainability ................................                         10
D. Bank Performance ................................11
E. Borrower Performance .................................11
F. Assessment of Outcome ...............................                           12
G. Future Operations ...............................                               13
H. Key Lessons Learned ...............................                             13
PART II:  STATISTICAL TABLES
1.   Summary of Assessments ...........................................          15
2.   Related Bank Loans ..........................................               16
3.   Project Timetable .......................................... 16
4.   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............... 16
5, 6  Key Indicators of Project Implementation/Operation .................... 17
7.    Studies Included in Project ..................       ........................ 18
8A.  Project Costs ...........................................18
8B.  Project Financing ...........................................18
9. Economic Costs and Benefits .19
10. Status of Legal Covenants .20
11.  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .19
12.  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .19
13.  Bank Resources: Missions .23
14. Key People .24
ANNEXES
A.  Mission's Back to Office Report .25
B.     Borrower's Comments of the Draft ICR and Its Project
Implementation Plan .28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.            I



2
C.   Miscellaneous Annexes
1. Caja Agraria - Financial Statements ..........................                            36
2.  Caja Agraria - Financial Ratios ..........................                               39
3. Corporate Plan ..........................                                                 40
4. Cost Summaries ..........................                                                  49
D.   Map: IBRD 26153



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBUI
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(LN. 2909-CO)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Caja Agraria
Institutional Strengthening Project in Colombia, for which loan 2909-CO in the
amount of US$15 million equivalent was approved on February 2, 1988, and
made effective on September 14, 1988.
2.    The loan was closed on June 30, 1994; the original closing date was
June 30, 1992. Final disbursement took place on November 2, 1994, at which
time a balance of US$7.4 million was canceled. Cofinancing for the project was
provided by the Government of Japan in the form of a grant of US$0.5 million
equivalent.
3.    The ICR was prepared by W. B. Johnson and S. Joss, Natural Resources
Management and Rural Poverty, Division Im, Latin America and the Caribbean
Region. The ICR was reviewed by Jonathan Parker, Principal Operations
Officer, Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Division and Robert
Crown, Project Advisor, Country Department III.
4.    Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final
supervision/completion mission, January 1994. It is based on material in the
project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR and
commented on the final draft through its letter of June 14, 1995 (see Annex B).
The Borrower also prepared the final cost summaries for the project
(Annex C 4).
5.    All local currency amounts shown in this report are in US$ equivalents.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(LOAN 2909-CO)
COLOMBIA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
A. Project Objectives
1.    The main objective of the project was to strengthen Caja, the primary
financial intermediary for agricultural credit in Colombia (especially for small
farmers); thereby helping to meet the agricultural sector's credit needs in a more
efficient manner. The project was aiming at helping Caja become a more
modern, self-sustaining financial intermediary, enhance its capacity to mobilize
resources, and lower its costs of financial intermediation. These objectives met
Government's strategy at the time (1986) to improve agricultural productivity
and production by inter alia, improving the functioning of rural credit markets
and strengthening the institutional capacity of key public sector agencies. These
objectives are still valid and are consistent with the current CAS for Colombia
which includes rural poverty alleviation and institutional strengthening.
2.    A set of key indicators was established to measure the success in
strengthening Caja's operations. These were contained in a 'Supplemental
Letter" which was signed by the Borrower. The indicators were chosen to
measure improvements in efficiency, control of overhead costs and resource
mobilization. At the end of 1990, the legal time-frame for the above indicators
had expired. As part of the new Agricultural Sector Credit Project
(Ln. 3575-CO), a new set of key performance indicators contained in an agreed
Corporate Development Plan were established and monitored under that project.
These indicators included divestment of non-banking assets, shrinldng the size of
the branch network, eliminating financial operating losses and continued staff
reductions. The new Corporate Plan embodied an agreement between Caja,
Government and the Bank on a restructuring plan for Caja.
3.    In retrospect, the attainment of these indicators were very dependent on:
(a) continued growth of the sector and specifically on Caja's business of lending
and mobilization of deposits, which didn't happen during the period; (b)
management's commitment to reduce staff, which didn't happen until 1991; and
(c) a stable economic and political situation in the country-side which also did not
happen and which caused savings to fall and loan arrears to increase. Much of



in
what happened in points (a) and (c) was beyond the control of Caja's
management.
B. Implementation Experience and Results
4.    From the start of the project, Caja was unable to meet the Key Indicators
it had agreed to in the Supplemental Letter. Administrative costs grew in real
terms and as a percentage of the loan portfolio. Head office staffing continued to
rise as a share of the total. Loan portfolio arrears went up while deposit
mobilization barely grew in real terms. As a result annual losses, adjusted for
understated pension liabilities, averaged almost US$90 million a year during
1986-92. Strong actions by Caja were only able to reduce these losses to US$30
million in 1993 and US$14 million projected for 1994.
5.    Caja did, however, finally achieve a large downsizing and restructuring of
its business which the Bank fully supported. It reduced staff in 1991 by 4,500
from a high of 15,000 and has since reduced staff further to a level of 7,650, a
reduction of almost 50 percent. As part of this process, Caja has sold off its non-
banking assets, which were losing money, and agreed to shut-down money-losing
bank branches or be compensated by Government for any branches Government
wished Caja to keep open for political purposes. Government imposed these
changes in 1991 and 1992 when it stepped in and provided a guarantee of
US$170 million to ensure that Caja met the fiscal requirements of the
Superintendent of Banks' to continue its operations.
6.    Nevertheless this downsizing was not reflected in improved financial
performance and sustainability. It was overshadowed by the lack of tangible
capital, decreasing deposit liabilities and a poorly performing loan portfolio.
While the Technical Assistance (TA) activities financed by the project were
necessary to achieve the objective of self-sustainability, they were not by
themselves sufficient to permit this objective to be achieved.
C. Summary of Findings
7.    Borrower leadership of project preparation did not take place nor was
there active participation by the Government during project implementation,
especially when Caja was experiencing the serious financial losses.
8.    Overall the outcome of this project should be considered unsatisfactory in
that Caja has not achieved the project's objectives of self-sustainability and
improved resource mobilization, even though it did sharply reduce its staff and
divest its non-banking assets.
9.    The sequencing of the project activities was not consistent with achieving
their objectives. The downsizing of the operations should have taken place



iv
before the training was provided to the staff. Staff trained as team leaders to
introduce new systems and procedures and staff trained in those systems and
procedures left Caja during the staff downsizing operation.
10.   Caja's continuing losses required Government to recapitalize it to comply
with the Superintendent of Bank's legal requirements. While these inputs helped
Caja meet the minimum requirements for the ratio of equity to risk assets, the
bonds and promissory note (both non-cash items) were an illusion, as they did
nothing to finance increased business activities which were desperately needed to
increase profitability and improve self-sustainability. Government did agree to
compensate Caja annually for the money-losing branches Government wished
keep open.
11.   Caja was not able to reach profitability during the project period. Based
on 1994 business levels, Caja would still need to increase its business, i.e., Net
Interest Income, by about 50 percent or reduce expenses by about 16 percent to
generate a return on assets of 1 percent, the target for 1994 in the Corporate
Plan. Profitability is also dependent on having a healthy loan portfolio of
sufficient size to sustain its operations. As noted earlier, Caja did not have the
resources to grow the loan portfolio, in real terms. High loan arrears, indicating
questionable portfolio quality, contributed to the drop in income and a continuing
need for recapitalization.
12.   Caja has not achieved the agreed reduction in branches. As at
December 31, 1993, Caja still had 851 branches, almost the same number (878)
when the project started in 1986. It was agreed that the number of branches
would be decreased to 760 by the end of 1993 and 650 by the end of 1994.
13.   Caja achieved a significant amount of staff training during the project
period from both internal resources (US2.1 million) and a Japanese Grant
(US$0.5 million), arranged by the Bank. In all, some 750 separate training
sessions took place with some 15,000 participants.
D. Future Operations
14.   Specific Plan for Project Implementation. Caja has prepared a specific
plan to complete project implementation by December 1995. This plan covers
the three remaining components: the automation of 40 branches; the purchase
and installation of the 1200 workstations including PCs; and the rehabilitation of
the computer center.
15.   Status of the Corporate Plan. On March 1, 1994, the Bank advised
Government that Caja was no longer a qualified financial institution with access
to the line of credit, through Loan 3575-CO, with FINAGRO. This action was
considered necessary since Caja had not met two of the key indicators in the
Corporate Plan. It has been agreed with Government that Caja can regain its



v
qualification if it sets agreed revised dates for accomplishing the objectives of the
Corporate Plan and the Key Indicators which are part of the Loan Guarantee
Agreement. Caja, to date, has not done this.
E. Key Lessons Learned
16.   This was the first project in Colombia for institutional strengthening of a
financial intermediary for agricultural credit. Some of the key lessons learned
from the project were:
* Borrower ownership and commitment is required for effective
implementation and sustainability of actions. Management of Caja
Agraria changed so many times, it lost its commitment to the project.
* Stronger monitoring and supervision on the part of the Bank can play a
crucial role in salvaging a project. Bank supervision should have
responded earlier to the deteriorating overall conditions (the frequent changes
in senior management staff, loss of key project staff, the seriously declining
profitability, and increased loan arrears) at Caja by involving Government in
taking action.
* A Financial Intermediary is unlikely to achieve its objectives on a
technical assistance project if it is not financial viable. Consequently,
project design and supervision should not pursue TA objectives in isolation,
but also address as part of an integrated package, the policy issues which
negatively impact financial performance and long-term viability.
- A more realistic assessment of risks and external contributing factors is
required at project preparation. At appraisal, the risk cited was that the
institutional reforms sought for Caja might not be achieved in a timely manner
due to the size of Caja and its long established institutional structure.
However, external contributing factors came into play which, if taken into
account in project design, would have reduced the expectations of the
project. The unstable economic and political environment, particularly in
rural areas, and the decline in the growth of the agricultural sector were both
evident at the time of appraisal.
* Utilize the Mid-term Review to ensure consensus on future
implementation. When the financial situation of the Borrower had
deteriorated so badly, all of the attention of the Borrower and the
Government were directed to solving that problem. The Bank should have
used the Mid-term review to discuss the status of the project and the likely
impact on project implementation of the deteriorating financial situation at
Caja and Government's proposed restructuring plan for Caja. This would



vi
have resulted in increased ownership of the project by both Caja and
Government, or if not it could have been used to close the Project.
* Sequencing of Activities. This project provided a good example of the
problems encountered with the sequencing of activities. Staff training,
especially the training of key implementing teams, should only be done with
assurance that these people would be in place to implement the project.
* Upfront Conditionality, linked to negotiations, loan effectiveness and
disbursements, should be used to test the Borrower's commitment to project
objectives and the achievement of key improvements. These could have
included basic reforms to address Caja's financial problems.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(LOAN 2909-CO)
COLOMBIA
PART 1 - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives
1.    The major objective of the project was to strengthen Caja Agraria, the
main financial internediary for agricultural credit in Colombia (especially for
small farmers), thereby helping to meet the agricultural sector's credit needs in a
more efficient manner. Specifically, the project was expected to help Caja
become a more modern, self-sustaining financial intermediary, enhance its
capacity to mobilize resources, and lower its costs of financial intermediation.
Reform of the rural credit system and relevant institutions continues to be an
important element of the rural poverty alleviation and institutional strengthening
objectives of the current Country Assistance Strategy. This rural credit reform
process was expected to continue under the Agricultural Sector Credit Project
(Loan 3575-CO, effective November 1993).
2.    In order to measure success in reaching the above objectives, key
indicators were established and embodied in a "Supplemental Letter" signed by
the Borrower. Specifically, these indicators (Table 5) were to measure
improvements in efficiency, control of overhead costs, and resource mobilization.
At the time (1986) they were considered realistic and achievable because Caja:
(a) had, since 1974, shown its ability to increase growth rates in loans by 5.9
percent per annum, in real terms; (b) had, since 1980, been able to hold increases
to administration costs at 3 percent per annum in real terms; (c) had been
averaging 12 percent per annum for loan arrears during 1975 - 1985; and (d) had
averaged 6.5 percent per annum in growth of deposits from 1980 - 1985.
Nevertheless, the key indicators did not take into account external contributing
factors which were unforeseen at appraisal, i.e., the unstable economic and
political environment, and the decline in the growth of the agricultural sector due
to: the contraction of the coffee subsector, the temporary downturn in world
commodity prices, and increased rural violence. Therefore, in retrospect, the key
performance indicators have proven to be overly ambitious. A new set of
performance indicators have been included in an agreed Corporate Development
Plan for Caja under the Agricultural Sector Credit Project which takes more into
account the above factors (para. 24).



2
Achievement of Project Objectives
3.    From the start of the project, Caja had difficulty meeting the Key
Indicators (Table 5) agreed to in the Supplemental Letter. The Key Indicators
and the results were as follows.
* Increase in Administration Costs. Administration costs were expected to
be held to zero growth in real terms. These costs, however, continued to
increase in real terms, on average six percent per year. This trend was offset
in 1989 by underproviding for the pension fund liabilities and later reversed
dramatically with the large staff reductions in 1991 to 1993.
* Administration Costs as a Percent of the Loan Portfolio were expected to
fall from 18 percent in 1987 to 14 percent by 1990, through increased
efficiency. However, these costs increased from an actual level of 17 percent
in 1987 to a high of 23 percent by 1990.
*  Branch Office Staff as a Percent of Total Staff was expected to increase
from 86 percent in 1988 to 90 percent by 1990, to reflect reduced Head
Office Staff. Branch Office staff level actually fell to 83 percent by 1990.
* Loan Arrears as a Percent of the Loan Portfolio were projected to fall
from a target of 16 percent in 1987 to 12 percent by 1990. Loan Arrears did
fall from an actual level of 19 percent in 1987 to 16 percent in 1990 but then
increased to 25 percent in subsequent years.
* Growth in Deposits, to reflect increased resource mobilization, was
projected to increase from a level of by 6 1/2 percent in 1987 to 8 percent by
1990. In fact, deposits grew at an average annual rate of only 0.2 percent
from 1987 to 1990 and minus 1.0 percent from 1991 to 1993.
4.    Overall, the project's success in achieving the major objective of
institutional development is rated as partial. Caja has lowered costs somewhat
through a large downsizing and restructuring of its business, which the Bank fully
supported. It reduced staff in 1991 by 4,500 from a high of 15,000 and has
fiurther reduced staff to about 7,650, a reduction of almost 50 percent. Caja has
also sold off its non-banking assets, which were losing money, and agreed to
shut-down money-losing branches or be compensated by Government for any
branches Government wanted Caja to keep open for political purposes.
Government imposed these changes in 1991 and 1992, when it stepped in and
provided a guarantee of US$170 million to ensure that Caja met the fiscal
requirements of the Superintendent of Banks to continue its operations. In



3
exchange for this Caja agreed, in 1991, to the restructuring plan and a new
statement of objectives.
5.    Nevertheless this downsizing was not reflected in improved financial
performance and sustainability. It was overshadowed by the lack of tangible
capital, decreasing deposit liabilities and a poorly performing loan portfolio.
While the Technical Assistance (TA) activities financed by the project were
necessary to achieve the objective of self-sustainability, they were not by
themselves sufficient to permit this objective to be achieved.
6.     Caja has neither achieved self-sustainability nor enhanced its capacity to
mobilize resources. During 1986 -1989, Caja's reported financial losses averaged
US$15 million per year with a peak of US$19 million in 1989. As presented, this
appeared to be lower than the period preceding the project when losses peaked at
US$176 million in 1982 and US$100 million in 1983. However, Caja had been
under-providing for pension liabilities in 1988 and 1989. Financial losses
returned to the former high levels - US$73 million in 1990, and US$97 million in
1991- due, in part, to the Superintendent of Banks' request for Caja to increase
the provision for pension fund liabilities, starting in 1990. Caja's ability to
mobilize resources have been hampered by a combination of factors including
declining economic conditions, increased competition from private banks, and the
higher than normal withdrawal of deposits on the news of Caja's declining
financial health and its lack of freedom to set competitive interest rates.
B. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
7.    Delay in Start-up. The project, which was negotiated in November
1986, was not presented to the Board until February 1988. This delay was due
to slowness of the Government in its internal approval system which is required
prior to final clearance of the negotiated documents. The loan became effective
in September 1988. Thus startup was effectively delayed by more than one year.
8.    Principal Consultant In October 1988, Caja hired the principal
consultant. His main tasks were to assist the Project Director with the
contracting and management of the work of the consulting firms hired to design
and implement new systems and procedures for the strengthening of Caja. In
addition, he was to review the designs and procedures and facilitate
implementation and adoption. His contract, which was originally for three years
' New Statement of Objectives: (a) to finance agricultural and rural sector development; (b) to
promote the development of an efficient financial rural sector, thus contributing to financial
sector development; (c) to operate under financial performance criteria equivalent to those of
privately owned financial institutions; (d) to limit its activities to banking and credit, except for
lending-related insurance, the family subsidy program under trust fund arrangements with the
Government, and ancillary non-lending support services to Government under a well defined
fee structure, the latter only until such time as the Government can assign the responsibilities to
a more appropriate institution; and (e) ultimately, as these objectives are met, to regionalize
and/or privatize part or all of Caja itself.



4
was extended until March 1993, in order to provide continuity and to facilitate
the implementation of key project components.
9.    Contrary to his terms of reference, a large part of his work involved the
development and implementation of short-term solutions to management
operating problems encountered in the day-to-day operations of such a large and
diverse entity as Caja. The consultant concentrated on short-term solutions while
the longer-term ones were being developed by Price Waterhouse and IBM.
Examples of the former were: (a) to develop a simplified human resources model
to select staff to be trained and involved in the project who would later be the
key personnel for project implementation. Caja had no automated information
system of its human resources which could search out personnel on criteria such
as education, work experience and current level; and (b) to develop a simple
automated inventory control and invoicing system for the agricultural supply
depots (while not generating much profit, these outlets had total gross sales of
about US$100 million per year). These stores had woefully inadequate record
keeping for inventory control and timely and accurate invoicing.
10.   As an interim step to alleviate the manual work load of the branches, the
Principal Consultant developed simplified automated procedures for branch
accounting, loan portfolio management and savings and checking accounts
management. To implement these new procedures it was agreed that Caja would
purchase 1,200 personal computers (PCs) and install them in about 600 branches.
This component is currently being implemented with 575 PCs and 283 improved
work stations installed as of June 30, 1994. It was understood that these
computers, while being employed initially on short-term accounting solutions,
would be compatible with the automated systems being developed by IBM for
the branches. CAJA expects to complete this component in 1995 (see Caja' s
Project Implementation Plan - Annex B).
11.   Price Waterhouse Contract. Price Waterhouse (PW) was hired in
February 1989 and, based on its initial diagnoses of Caja's operation and with the
agreement of Caja's management, embarked on a program of five components:
Strategy and Organization, Information and Systems, Rationalization of the
Branches, Rationalization of the Credit Process, and Improve and Develop
Human Resources. By June 1991, PW had completed the design of new systems
for credit processing, managing human resources, management information and
branch operations, as well as proposed a new management structure. PW then
installed and tested the new systems and procedures in one branch as a model
with reported good results.
12.   The next step was to begin one of the more important tasks of this
component, that was to implement the new systems and procedures in the
remaining branches. To do this, PW trained a cadre of managers who would
form and lead implementation teams. Unfortunately, most of these trained
managers and key team players opted to take the voluntary separation package
offered by Caja in December 1991 (para. 26). As a result almost nothing has



5
been done on this important subcomponent, although Caja management had set a
target, in October 1992, of converting 15 branches every two months. By
December 1993, only three branches were converted.
13.   IBM Contract. After nearly a two-year delay due to changes in Caja's
management and local pressure regarding the award of the contract, Caja signed
a contract with IBM in February 1991 and implementation began in April of
1991. The objective of this contract was to develop automated systems for
branches and install these new systems with the necessary hardware and software
in 40 branches. In addition, IBM was to develop an automated human resources
information system. The development and implementation of this contract faced
serious delays due to the underestimation by IBM of the time required to get the
new systems operational and the lack of trained Caja personnel to work with
IBM due to the reduction of staff, especially the trained professional staff. As a
result, the IBM contract was extended three times from the original completion
date of June 30, 1992 to the end of 1995; Caja has financed the IBM contract
from its own resources after the closing of the loan, though it now intends to
cancel this and reassign it to a different vendor (see Project Implementation Plan
- Annex B).
14.   Training. Training was an important component of the project and over
the period 1989 to 1993, about 370,000 mandays of training were provided to
the staff of Caja. This training, which cost about US$2.6 million was financed
partially by a Japanese Grant of US$500,000 and the balance by Caja. Over
twenty percent of the training was in banking and credit. Other major subjects
were: the keys of success, accounting systems, loan administration systems,
credit, project management, auditing, training development, and accounts
evaluation. In all, over 750 training sessions took place and involved almost
15,000 participants.
15.   Mid-term Review. The Loan Agreement called for a mid-term review,
with Caja, Government and the Bank exchanging views, by June 30, 1989, on the
progress of the project and the compliance by Caja with the Key Indicators and
other obligations. In October 1991, some two years late due to the slow startup
and implementation of the project, Caja hired Unisoftware to undertake a study
to evaluate the current state of the project as compared to the original objectives
and suggest changes where necessary.
16.   During the mid-term review and especially when Unisoftware was in the
process of preparing its final report, Government and Caja's senior management
were immersed in the major reorganization and downsizing of Caja's operations
(see para. 25). With financial losses of close to US$100 million in 1991, and
under strong pressure from Government to take direct action, the implementation
of the project and the preparation of the mid-term review report took a low
priority. In fact, senior management asked the Bank informally about
cancellation of the loan.



6
17.  In January 1992 Unisoftware presented its report. Key findings and
recommendations centered on: (a) the lack of involvement in the project by high
level management of Caja (Unisoftware proposed that the project should be
directed by a committee at the Board of Directors level, presided over by the
General Manager), as well as a mechanism to ensure staff continuity for project
implementation; (b) frequent changes in management of Caja during three
separate Governments, and a lack of leadership, at different times, in the
important areas of banking and systems. Such actions adversely affected
implementation of the required structural changes in Caja; and (c) Caja's need for
better management of consultants and the integration of their work.
18.   About mid-1992, Caja Management informally advised the Bank that it
wished to continue the project. Caja management felt that the project would still
provide benefits in improved systems and procedures which would support, in the
long-term, Caja's downsizing of staff and improved efficiency and profitability.
In retrospect, the Bank should have used the mid-term review as an opportunity
to discuss the status of the project with Caja and Government.
19.   The mid-term review of the Key Indicators, by Caja, Government and the
Bank, did not take place as these indicators were superseded by the
improvements mandated by Government, in July 1991 (para. 22), and later by the
new Corporate Plan which was part of the Agricultural Sector Credit Project
(Ln. 3575-CO - see para. 22). These new indicators were considered better at
measuring Caja's success at solving its overall problems. The Bank was very
supportive of these moves by Government.
20.   Two, one year, extensions of the Loan closing date were approved to
allow time for Caja to complete contracts and to support Caja's efforts as part of
the Agricultural Sector Credit Project (Ln. 3575-CO). Implementation of a new
Corporate Plan for Caja was included as one of the objectives of the new
Agricultural Sector Credit Project with the Bank which became effective in
November 1993 (para. 25). However, Caja's financial situation continued to
deteriorate and Caja and Government's commitment to the project fell even
further. Despite some progress in staff reduction, Caja's achievements in
increasing profitability and reducing the number of branches fell short of the
agreed targets.
21.   Management Change and Project Ownership. Since the appraisal of
the project, there have been five Managing Directors and five Project Managers
(Table 14). The lead consultant provided some continuity and institutional
memory during the four year period that he was in place; this ended in March
1993. Nevertheless, as a result of frequent management changes, and Caja's
major restructuring imposed by Government, senior management's attention was
diverted from the project and there was never much management commitment as
a result.



7
22.   Drop in Caja's Lending, Profitability and Efficiency. Since 1989, Caja
has been unable to maintain its level of lending due to a combination of the
following factors:
(a)   reduced mobilization of deposits (in 1990 the target was to
increase deposits by eight percent per year, in real terms -
Table 5). Actual deposits dropped by 3.7 percent in 1990 and 9.4
percent in 1991, in real terms, due to declining economic
conditions, increased competition from the private banks, and the
higher than normal withdrawal of deposits on the news of Caja's
declining financial health and uncompetitive interest rates;
(b)   increased loan arrears, from 15.6 percent of the loan portfolio in
1990 to 25.0 percent in 1991 (Table 5). This was caused by poor
economic conditions in the country, especially the rural areas, and
by borrowers stopping loan repayments with the news of Caja's
poor financial condition and rumors of it possibly closing;
(c)   reduced operational efficiency, as measured by administration
costs as a percent of the loan portfolio, one of the Key Indicators.
In 1989 this was 15.2 percent versus the agreed target of 14.9
percent, in 1990 it deteriorated to 23.1 percent versus the target
of 13.8 percent. Since then it has remained at the 20 percent level
despite the large cuts in labor costs; and
(d)   high losses from operations siphoned off resources i.e., savings,
profits etc., that would have gone to new lending.
23.   As a result of the above, Net Interest Income declined dramatically.
From 1989 to 1990, it declined 5 percent in real terms; from 1990 to 1991 by an
additional 25 percent; and from 1991 to 1992 an additional 52 percent; in all a
reduction of 65 percent, in real terms, from 1989. The falling interest income, as
a result of lower lending levels, was not completely offset by a corresponding
reduction in administrative and overhead spending. As a result, financial losses in
1991 totaled US$97 million, US$88 million in 1992, US$30 million in 1993 and
expected to be about US$14 million in 1994. The value of the loan portfolio feli
35 percent, in real terms, from the start of 1989 to the end of 1992. As a
comparison, in the period 1980 to 1985, the portfolio had grown at an average of
10 percent per annum in real terms.
24.   Government Action. To counter this deteriorating financial situation
and the fact that the Superintendent of Banks could close down Caja due to
Caja's ratio of equity to risk assets falling below the minirnum, Government
formed a task force in December 1990 to study Caja's problems and recommend
a course of action. Based on the recommendations of the Task Force,
Government took strong action and issued Decree 1755, in July of 1991, which
set the following changes for Caja:



8
(a)   staff would be reduced by at least 4,000 by the end of 1992;
(b)   Caja would divest itself of the non-banking business, i.e.,
agricultural inputs sales, seed production plants, farms and
airplanes by the end of 1992;
(c)   Caja would reduce loan arrears from the level in 1989 of 20
percent of the loan portfolio to 5 percent by the end of 1993;
(d)   Caja would shut down all loss-making branches unless
Government wished them retained and in those cases Government
would pay the net cost of their operation;
(e)   Caja should look at selling stock to employees and customers; and
(f)   Caja would be recapitalized.
To support these changes Government provided a guarantee of US$170 million,
to ensure payment of Caja's pension plan in case Caja became insolvent. This
guarantee, when recorded on the Balance sheet as an asset and additional equity,
also satisfied the Superintendent of Banks requirement for the minimum ratio of
equity to risk assets that all banks require to remain in operation, but it provided
no operational benefit.
25.   By December 1991, Caja had reduced staff by about 4,500 through a
voluntary separation program and began the process of divestment and shutting
down loss-making branches. The option of selling the ownership of Caja
(common stock) was not pursued, because in view of the high losses, it was
doubtful that anyone would be interested in buying.
26.   New Project and Corporate Plan. The Bank responded to this new
reorganization plan for Caja by incorporating a Corporate Strengthening Plan,
agreed to by Caja, Government and the Bank, into a new Agricultural Sector
Credit Project. This new project was supported by a Bank loan of US$250
million, which became effective in November 1993. Conditionality in this project
allowed Caja to access the line of credit with FINAGRO, only if Caja met the
agreed Corporate Plan (Annex C 3) and met key performance indicators as
follows:
(a)   Caja would have eliminated losses by December 31, 1993
(excluding the reconstitution of the pension fund) and, by
December 31, 1994 achieved a return on assets of at least
one percent;



9
(b)   Caja's staff would be reduced to 9,250 by early 1993, 8,200 by
December 31, 1993 and to, at least, 7,200, by December 31,
1994;
(c)   Operating expenses as a percentage of the average deposits would
be 16 percent or less; and
(d)   Caja's number of operating branches would be reduced to about
800 by March 31, 1993; 760 by December 31, 1993; and 650 by
December 31, 1994. Of the remaining branches, up to 100
money-losing branches would remain open on Government's
request and the net cost of operation be included in the
Government budget and transferred to Caja.
27.   On November 8, 1992 the Congress of Colombia approved Law 17
ordering the transfer of US$82 million to Caja. This transfer took place in
December, 1992 in the form of US$35 million in cash and US$47 million in
bonds. This first payment was part of a recapitalization of Caja, which would
total about US$180 million over a three-year period under the restructuring of
this institution, as confirmed by a letter to the Bank dated November 18, 1992,
from the Minister of Finance. Continued disbursements by the Government were
subject to satisfactory progress in implementing the Corporate Plan.
28.  In 1993 Government increased "Paid In Capital" by US$110 million in the
form of a transfer of Bancoldex bonds. This contribution of assets improved the
reported financial condition at Caja, ensuring that it continued to meet the
Superintendent of Bank's minimum requirement for the ratio of equity to risk
assets. In addition, Government gave a promissoxy note of US$61 million to
cover, as per the restructuring agreement, incremental pension costs.
Unfortunately these inputs, not being cash, were an illusion as they did nothing
towards increasing business levels which capital inputs would normally be
intended to do.
29.  In addition to the above, Caja and the Government entered into an
agreement under which Caja would receive from the Government Budget, about
US$8.0 million per year in 1994 and 1995 as a direct subsidy for banking and
ancillary services provided by Caja through its money-losing branches that the
Government has requested Caja to keep open.
30.   The Agricultural Sector Credit Loan was canceled in July 1995 due to the
inability of Government to meet loan conditionality intended to liberalize interest
rates for financing the agricultural sector.



10
C. Project Sustainabiity
31.   Caja will probably maintain the limited achievements generated in relation
to the Project' s major objective of institutional strengthening. Caja has
satisfactorily completed the installation of new systems for: credit card
management, human resource management, and check clearing. The experience
it has obtained in automating the 40 branches under the IBM contract will benefit
future automation of the other branches. Caja continues to work toward
reducing costs, and reducing losses (see Annex C 1). There is a commitment on
the part of Caja's management to continue activities under the project,
particularly increasing efficiency through improved office and banking systems.
Caja has prepared a specific plan (see Annex B) to complete project
implementation by the end of 1995. The Government's political commitment is
evidenced through its decisive actions in 1991/92 and the restructuring/financial
support given to Caja in 1991, 1992 and 1993.
32.   Staff Levels and Administration Costs. Caja has demonstrated its
ability to reduce staff levels, with a reduction of almost 50 percent from 1991 to
1994. Caja's reduction in costs should continue provided that Caja management
and Government both remain committed to a smaller Caja and resolve the issue
of the money-losing branches. In addition, Caja's installation of new procedures
and automated systems in the remaining branches would likely increase business
without a commensurate increase in staff. Such actions would have a lasting
impact on holding down administration costs which have been reduced by 37
percent in real terms from 1990 to 1993.
33.   Scope of Business. As discussed earlier, Government and Caja had
agreed that Caja would limit its operations to providing banking services to the
rural sector. Caja has recently, under new management, indicated that it would
continue its operations in the urban areas. When the new procedures and
automated systems are in place in all of the branches, Caja will be in a better
position to provide improved service to existing clients and could conceivably
grow, but it is uncertain what the financial results might be.
34.   Profitability. Stable profitability has eluded Caja for some time and
while losses have been reduced dramatically, Caja still projects a loss of US$14
million for 1994, half of the 1993 loss. Based on 1994 business levels, Caja
would need to increase its business (Net Interest Income) by 50 percent or
reduce expenses by 16 percent to generate a return on assets of 1 percent, the
target for 1994 in the Corporate Plan. Profitability is also dependent on having a
healthy loan portfolio of sufficient size to sustain the operation. As noted earlier,
Caja suffered from a large reduction in the size of the portfolio, in real terms, and
has high loan arrears, indicating questionable portfolio quality. This has led to
erosion of the portfolio with recapitalization required from time-to-time. Based
on the above, it now seems that Caja will need Government subsidies for the
foreseeable future in order to operate.



11
D. Bank Performance
35.   Overall Bank performance is rated as unsatisfactory. This was an
ambitious project with high expectations and targets. In retrospect, given the
number of senior management changes, a more realistic assessment of Caja's
capacity for institutional change and its ability to meet the targets should have
been made by the Bank at appraisal. Such assessment should have taken into
account the risks associated with Caja's history of financial instability, the long-
term process required for institutional strengthening, and the country's volatile
political and economic situation. There should have been more safeguards to
ensure the involvement of Government in project decisions when Caja's ability to
continue its business was in question. The mid-term review was not used
adequatedly as a vehicle to resolve these issues, nor did the Bank choose to
withdraw from the Project.
36.   Caja's seriously declining profitability and the numerous changes in
management and staff affected its ability to meet the key indicators, and the
implementation targets. The Bank and the Government should have addressed
these issues more promptly. However, the Bank did respond to the changing
direction of Caja when it incorporated a new Corporate Plan for Caja into the
recently canceled Agricultural Sector Credit Project, which was appraised in
1992. For the first time there was a Corporate Strengthening plan for Caja with
Key indicators that was agreed to by Caja, Government and the Bank. Some of
the problems during implementation could have been reduced if the Bank had
involved Government, rather than just Caja (the Borrower), more in appraisal
and implementation and had asked Government to take steps earlier to down-size
the staff and scope of operations at Caja.
E. Borrower Performance
37.   The performance of the Borrower is rated as deficient. Many of the
implementation problems are linked to the lack of strong ownership of the project
at the important phase of implementing new systems and procedures, as well as
external fictors beyond its control. Such factors included an unstable economic
and political environment, particularly in the rural areas; and a decline in the
growth of the agricultural sector. During the design of the project and especially
at appraisal, Caja indicated that major downsizing was not achievable due to the
high political risks and that it could not expect support from Government. As a
consequence of the numerous changes of senior management staff in Caja
through Government reorganizations and the lack of Borrower ownership,
project implementation was delayed; little progress was made in implementing the
new procedures and branch layouts developed by Price Waterhouse; key project
staff were released in 1991 through the voluntary separation program;



12
completion of the IBM contract was delayed three years; and there was a lack of
trained staff to work with IBM.
38.   In spite of the difficulties during implementation, it is clear that Caja is
now in a much better position to carry out its mandate of providing credit to the
rural sector more efficiently by having a much leaner operation, concentrating on
banking services and employing more modem and efficient systems in all aspects
of its operations. Current management of Caja has shown a strong commitment
to complete implementation of the project (Annex B) and continue the process of
improving systems and procedures to improve not only the efficiency of
operations but also service to Caja's clientele.
F. Assessment of Outcome
39.   Overall the outcome of the project is rated as unsatisfactory. Caja has not
achieved self-sustainability due to high financial losses, high loan arrears which
will eventually erode the capital base, thus requiring recapitalization from time to
time, and poor performance in mobilizing resources. Caja has also not achieved
the agreed reduction in branches. As at December 31, 1994, Caja still operated
about 850 branches, almost the same number as in 1986 when the project started
(878). It was agreed that the number of branches would be decreased to 760 by
the end of 1993 and 650 by the end of 1994. Caja also did not meet the target of
having a break-even financial operation in 1993, reporting a loss of US$30
million. It has projected a loss of US$14 million for 1994, thus it will not obtain
the return of at least one percent of its assets in 1994. To achieve this level of
return, Caja would have to increase its business level, i.e., Net Interest Income,
by about 50 percent or reduce its operating costs by about 16 percent.
40.   On the other hand, Caja has made some significant changes in downsizing
its operations. It has reduced staff from a level of 15,000 in 1991 to about 7,650
by December 31, 1994, reducing overall administration costs by 37 percent in
real terms between 1990 to 1993. It has divested its non-banking operations,
except those as agreed between Government, Caja and the Bank, (lending related
insurance and management of the trust fund for family subsidies). Critical for
much of these positive changes has been Government actions in 1991, and in
1992 through the linking of further improvements to Caja to another Bank
financed project in the sector. In addition, the Government agreed to a
significant recapitalization of Caja, and acknowledged it should compensate Caja
annually for the money-losing branches Government wanted to keep open.



13
G. Future Operations
41.   Specific Plan for Project Implementation. Caja has prepared a specific
plan to complete project implementation by December 1995 (see Annex B). This
plan covers the three remaining components to complete as follows:
(a)   the work under the contract with IBM to be reasigned to another
vendor;
(b)   the purchase and installation of the 1,200 workstations including
PCs; and
(c)   the rehabilitation of the computer center.
42.   Implementation and Status of the Corporate Plan. On March 1,
1994, the Bank advised Government that Caja was no longer a qualified financial
institution for access to the line of credit with FINAGRO. This action was
considered necessary since Caja had not met two of the key indicators in the
Corporate Plan. It has been agreed with Government that Caja can regain its
former qualified classification, if it sets agreed revised dates for accomplishing
the objectives of the Corporate Plan and the Key Indicators which are part of the
Loan Guarantee Agreement. Caja, to date, has not done this.
H. Key Lessons Learned
43.   This was the first project in Colombia for institutional strengthening of a
financial intermediary for agricultural credit. The key lessons learned from the
project were the following:
* Borrower ownership and commitment is required for effective
implementation and sustainability of actions. Management of Caja
Agraria changed so many times, it lost its commitment to the project.
*  Stronger monitoring and supervision on the part of the Bank can play a
crucial role in salvaging a project. Bank supervision should have
responded earlier to the deteriorating overall conditions (the frequent changes
in senior management staff, loss of key project staff the seriously declining
profitability, and increased loan arrears) at Caja by involving Government in
taking action.
*  A Financial Intermediary is unlikely to achieve its objectives on a
technical assistance project if it is not financial viable. Consequently,
project design and supervision should not pursue TA objectives in isolation,



14
but also address as part of an integrated package, the policy issues which
negatively impact financial performance and long-term viability.
*  A more realistic assessment of risks and external contributing factors is
required at project preparation. At appraisal, the risk cited was that the
institutional reforms sought for Caja might not be achieved in a timely maner
due to the size of Caja and its long established institutional structure.
However, external contributing factors came into play which, if taken into
account in project design, would have reduced the expectations of the
project. The unstable economic and political environment, particularly in
rural areas, and the decline in the growth of the agricultural sector were both
evident at the time of appraisal.
*  Utilize the Mid-term Review to ensure consensus on future
implementation. When the financial situation of the Borrower had
deteriorated so badly, all of the attention of the Borrower and the
Government were directed to solving that problem. The Bank should have
used the Mid-term review to discuss the status of the project and the likely
impact on project implementation of the deteriorating financial situation at
Caja and Government's proposed restructuring plan for Caja This would
have resulted in increased ownership of the project by both Caja and
Government, or if not it could have been used to close the Project.
e  Sequencing of Activities. This project provided a good example of the
problems encountered with the sequencing of activities. Staff training,
especially the training of key implementing teams, should only be done with
assurance that these people would be in place to implement the project.
*  Upfront Conditionality, linked to negotiations, loan effectiveness and
disbursements, should be used to test the Borrower's comnmitment to project
objectives and the achievement of key improvements. These could have
included basic reforms to address Caja's financial problems.



15
COLOMBIA
Caja Agraria Institutional Strengthening Project
Inplementation Completion Report
MTble 1: Summary of A              semiments
A. A_hhw  ot 8ofandamw                       Parl         NqOWil   No
Objecdv                                                                 Appirable
Mar Policis                                                                 X
Secbr PolicicS                                                              X
Fiancial Objecw                               X
lnat*moci D    pent                            X
Plyical Objcwo                                X
PoE      Redictio                                             X
Gmder 1m                                                                    X
Ohicr Social Object'                                                        X
Euvizommbl ObjccN                                                           X
PubLic Srcdr Manam                             X
Privaz Sebr Demlopmnt                       _                              X
Other                                                                       X
likdy         ULikLdy       Uncertain
Bs Projed SuAianabillty                                       X
C Bank Perform An.            Higly        StOidadry       Ddec
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   SatidActory   _ _ _ _ _ _   _   _  _   _   _
ldcadficaon                                    X
Prepntion Aisamnce                             X
Appisal                                                       X
Supervisioz                                                   X
Do Berrowr Perbroram       Hil            Sadadory
Prepazatioo                                                  X
lmpkerAnt6m                                                   X
Ceant Complia;                                                X
Opcmtion                                                     X
Highly                       uno   U- rL
Satabdory       SaWadory       factory      bdory
E      : Assawnet of Ousoo                                   X



Part II
16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
|Ln/Cuedit Tide                        Pwpo.                Year of Appml                Sbtut
Pucdiq Opeaoas:
I.notce
Fol3iaw  q Opai-:                     Help aourem   adjuu the                1993           No d i_   o
1. Ag. Secar Crdit Prjec. * IDm      prwisioa cf agricuual cmdd                            dat - Amezaimei
3250-CO                             ID c man  baed fmaork.                                uoder prpabca.
Table 3: Project llmetable
Seps im Project C)Ck                                 Dcx PIJmd               D      U    1  E
Ideotifictioe                                                1985                           1985
Pup o                                                       1985/86                       1985/86
App a_                                                       6186                       6/22-7/18/86
Nqotstiom                                                    11/86                         11/86
Boeud Pvmaietioe                                             3/87                         02109/88
signin                                                                                    05/13/88
Eftbdvctiwa                                                                               09/14/88
IMiderm Revew                                              6/30/89                        01/1992
Poject CoapleAoa                                           12131/91                       12/31/93
Loan CkOin                                                 6/30/92                        6/30/94
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS thousands)
FY88      FY89       FY90       FY91       FY92       FY93     FY94       FY95
Appm                                                                          1 
Estiae            2.4        3.6       9.1        14.6      I5.0
ActU               0         24        30         36         5.9   1   6.9        73        7.6
AcUi al%           0         67         33        25         39         47         49       53
of Estimate
Dat of Fi_|                                                                                11/94
Disbusicument



17
1Tabla S,6: Key Indiaton tor f Project Impmeta n/Operaion
lmIndicr                  1937       193       1     ,9 1990       1991 .     1         1993      19
1hmcmo1 Summ   s-                                     I
APmmidndaz    s- I
Appdx C2                                  
I_er sopw d /13aSS
a  1966a S
* %A    1/                0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
. AMl                     -0.4       9.2      -15.9      31.7      -30.7    -0.3       -10.6
- Adh. Com - a
toa Lam PmrIio
TR" ,8.17.6                        16.3      14.9       13.3
-AOi                      16.3       13.4      15.2      23.1      20.S       22.3      21.3
B mib Odffig SaM
.S d  alw Saf
-  7pt                              36.0       U.0       90.0
.A1                                 35.6       3.5        3.2
-LAm Arim a S of
.                         16.0      15.0       14.0      12.0
- Ahl                     13.9      19.3       16.4      15.6      25.0       25.0      22.4
-Owud in D.p.aia i
hal    uS
* -                       6.5        7.0       7.5       3.0
.-AmI                     4.1       -5.5       5.9       -3.7      -9.4       0.7       5.7
Kqy Iudcka-- p-
Coapoabt Ph                                                     I_
NH lmcoc (Ca1 b)
-PhI                                                                                     0         13
- AcaW                                                l         l          |         |-25          -12
Sal(_ L er &mb)
-P_h.                                                                         9150      3200       7200
- , Acd                                                  15000    10250                 7300       7650
OpmA~w ExR     m -a
S d Am Dq  al
-P h|                                                                                     16        NA
Dn inI I OpemTa I
(Emba)                                                                         306       760       760
-ph PS6   1 60   1 5                                                                                5Io
11  rp  1in dite Suffl Ja1 LCXh sqzkd bZ |y C*esz md  p   e             d 1987 to I90
Kiy lndim  - pat d ofe C4cpoub Pla= am in La 3275-CO mee A mm C3
1994 Aainhman



18                                          Part II
T3kble 7: Studies Iicluded in the Project
Namc f Report                         Or4iner                            Deft cr Report
Mid-Term Review *Plo Repon        | Uniedtmic Lid.                        Jmnuwry 15. 1992
Mid-Tertm Rev  - Exac. Sawmuy       Unicsaft  LMd.                        Januazy 15, I9m
Fl Repoq - Principul Cmiat          Price Vtrbiume                        Ibruay 26, 1992
Public Op.*oa Surmy                 Contm Naciaoal dc Coosuuhri          Dhoembec 19S9
RaaoDaliaia of tdo Bnch Nut.rt      H. Gaamut - Economi                   Mjy 1992
Pragm l P.wide Opewujom             Phned DqwUi 1- Ce Agria               Sqepnibr 1991
Siqtpo to Brances
Ei.kim of the lan 1Ptiblio           DetL rf Eoo    Studie - C4e         Jlme 1992
Ag.ris
Tible SA: Project Cosis
lam                  Appaul Eaiimi  (USSM)               AcIIl/L.aIM Eatimam (USSM)
LoA1 Foreaii   Toli                  Loca Foreign Told
Technical Aansnce                 1.6   1.7   3.3                                   3.1
Trum                             0.8   0.2   1.0                                     2.6
Office F*dpm                     3.4   7.9   11.3                                   21.4
Bnch Itmp o_.mma                 11.7   1.9   13.6                                  15.0
Bom Cae                         17.5  11.7   29.2                                   42.8
Cotqencias
*p 1al                           1.5   1.0   2.5
* Prime                          1.0   2.3   3.3
Tobi Projeo Coa                 20.0  15.0  35.0                                    42.S
lkble 8B: Project Flnancing
Soure                 Appisa EJsim   (USS$M)               Actual/I.at Estimak(USSM)
Loa  FDrein Tokl                     Lcal FRomign To.J
[BRD                             0.0   15.0  15.0                                   7.6
lapi Tnut fimd                   0.0   0.0   0.0                                    0.5
Caja Agmia                      20.0   0.0  20.0                                   34.7
ToaI                            20.0   15.0  35.0                                  42.8



19                                  Part II
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Calculated for This Project
Ibble 10: Status of Legal Covenants
See next page
Table 11: Compliane with Operational Manual Statements
There was no significant lack of Compliance
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Sup of Pmjoa Cycle                 P.INM  vAe1      Reviacd V*Ab    Acual Veb
|Thiqb Appma                                                           12S.2
Appia.l-u                                                               54.6
Bamd-Etmcti                                                             9.3
Supavla.                                                                68.6
Coaapleiiam                                                              7.0
lT*i                                                                   267.7



STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL PROJECT (LOAN 2909-CO)
ORIGINAL            REVISED
COVENANT                      FULFILLMENT   FULFILLMENT
AGREEMENT    SECTION                 TYPE          STATUS            DATE                DATE               DESCRIPTION OF COVENANTOMMENT 1/
Loun2.01 (b)                         3               C                                                     Caja sall open and mainain In dollan a
Special Account in Ihe Centrl Dank on
terms and conditions satisfacwry to the
Bank.
3.03         5               C                                                     Caa sal maintain until completion report
a unit to supervise project implementation,
with stafimg, functions and organizational
structure satisfactory to die Bank.
3.04         5               C                                                     Caja shal ptepare and furnish to the Bank,
Dot later than October 31, 1988, nd every
year tdemater, detailed annual training
3_______________  0S____________ C_____________                                    proga      under Part B.2  of the project.
3.05         5               C                                                     Ca dshall, nt later than June 30, 1988:
(a) design die mnecsary inmprvements to
kta portfolio management system under Piar
B (a) of the project, baeed on a review of
Bomroweres loan portfolio to be made under
terms of referece satisftory to the Bank,
and (b) design the ymc    improvement
to its accounting, management information,
tad dat processing sytems under Patu (c)
of the proj.
3.06         5               CP                                                    Caja shall, not ter than June 30, 1989,   New performance trgets and indication
teview with the Bank and the Guaramor    are par of the Corporte Plan a condition
the progre  made by the Borrwer in       of the Agricuture Sector Credit Project,
carrying out the project, the compliance by    (ASCP) nd are monitored under tlat
tie Borrower with the targets referred to in   project. At prsent Caja has not complied
Section 4.01(b) of Loan Agreement and the   with indicators on closing branches and
compliance by the Borrower with other    met income. Problem to be addresed
obligations under the Loan Agreement.    under ASCP default.
0



STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL PROJECT (LOAN 2909-CO)
ORIGINAL            REVISED
COVENANT                     FULFLIr  FULFLLIM
AGREEMENT    SECTION                TYPE          STATUS            DATE               DATE               DESCREITON OF COVENANT                           COMENTS 1/
4.01 (b)    2, 5            CP                                                    Ca  s ha  comply with die performanc     See above.
and operational urgets s forth in a enet
of May 12, 198.
4.02        5               CP                                                    Caj Ad, not later dan Jne 30, 19t9,      Pubic opinion avey nt carried out as
and June 30, 1991, fbida to the Bank tbe    mome of the filly automated branches was
corchuiom of a publC opinion wrvey,      opertional; to review in Marh 1994.
eanied oit under terms of referene
satidfactory to die Dank, on the quality of
the Borrowees services rendered to
furmers.
4.03        5               C                                                     Ca Ad  maitain copea on progu                            9
for the Bomrwees staff satsiactory to the                                            _
ank, put into effect as of Juamuy 1,
19t7.
4.04        2               NC                                                    Ca hall: (a) ot l  terb nDecember 31,    Suspended by Cuate Agreement Loan
I19S, prepae and furnish to die  ank a   3575-CO   lant of the 'Corponte Plan-
phn of action sisatory to die  ank, to   included in the Agriculture Sector Credit
produce for each of ka fiscal years, et  Prject).
income ufficied to min the value of
equity, in rel terms, including a detailed
amlyma of the Borrwers 'Ascir
Deficbkais' and a specfic program to
reduce he mnuber of mbch  Agencias
Defichlariu'; and (b) catty oA mach plan
of action di ler t.
C.J



STATUS O LEGAL COVENANTS
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL PROJECT (LOAN 2909-CO)
ORIGINAL             R5LED
COVENANT                       FULF1LLMENT  FULJILIEN
AGREEMENT    SECTION                 TYPE          STATUS             DATE                DATE               DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT                            COMMENTS 1/
5.01         I               C                                                      Caja shl have die projec fiwial
steaents and records and accouts foe die
Special Accoun for eoch fis    year
audited by independeot auditon aceptable
to die Bank, and suben to de Bank, ao
lae  than sx months after the end of each
fiscal year die audited financial datamesa,
incldint a sepamte opinion by said
audito  on te use of disemet of
5.02         1               C                                                      Caja sl, nat lot dt    Docadert31,         This exercise wa carried-ou for die firt
19S9, and evcry year dierafler, inhue, an  tdne imn 1990, and used to determine
a part of its a&iul financial  _ ,teniss a  cloed-down, or consolidated with other
report on the profit and loss shuaio of   bruas.
etch of its branches, inCluting an analysis
of di reaons for any lows and a
rmaoned aseument on whether uich
loss am of a tenVomry or oumanus
Covenant types:                                                                        St.a:
I - Accounts/audit                                                                    C          - oovenant complied witd
2 - Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries                        CD        - comned with after delay
3 - Flow and utilization of project funds                                              NC        - no  eomplied with
4 - Counterpart funding                                                                SOON    - ecnyiane expected in reuoAbly sot dm
5 - Management aspects of tde project or executing agency                              CP        - eoamped with paiially
6 - Environmental covenanu                                                             NYD          nt yet due
7 - Involuntary resettlement
S - Indigenous peoplc
9 - Monitoring, review and reponing
10 -Project imnplementation nra covered by categories 1-9
11 1 Sectoral or cros-aectorml budgetary or other resource allocationa
12 - Sectoral or crowectoral policy/regulatoryrimsitutional actionc
13 - Other
O j



23                                           Part II
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Sup o          4ooh      Nim.bro D=   .           Spccizai4      Pcr&dnnoe        Dewlopamt    7ypm of
Pnicp         Year       Pesum         Fscw       SkiLU          RaL4             Obje,m           Pmbles
C)ck                                                             Imp h
Sta
Appmuah         1/S6          1           10
6/S6          5           26
h                                                 Pmsncial
BomAd          12/S6          1           5       Economic
ltitutionl
Supervisam     10/88          l           12      Fwacial              I                I          Pjnct Mgt
1/89          l           11      Fmani                I                1
9/89          1           7       Flcil                I                I         Studies
I                                                                           E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fnacia
4/90          1           10      Finil                I                I            _mm 
&bum
9/90          1           12 _ Fawcii                  I                I         Compliaace
3/91          1           4       Finacil              2                3         Complianc
Pin1 Mgmt
T/A.
6/91          1           8       Fiancial             3                3         SM  _
7/91          l           7       Fincial              3                3          me SO
abes
9/92          1           5       Fiswcisl             2                3         sme a
albese M&E
10/93         1            I      Fiancisl             3                2         Malm
l                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~abaft
Coipealpion     1/94          2           II      Fiancial             3                3         amca
abcwe
Fa-,un-up       9/94                  -           F



24                                          Part II
Table 14 - Key People
MANMAGNO DIRECIOR - CAM                     START          FINISH               COMENTS
Asi RARJA
MaWon OmpinA P.                           09/1982        10/1986       Incit=benl durug pojcct
prepenioanW appaisal
Caruo VWl.mit C.                          10/1986        10/1990       Principal aupportr of the project
lowm de Pombo                             10/1990         1/1992       tmpkztabd Gcwemnmes plan
-           to do.uiz Caj .
Calm MuwaO.                                111992        4/1992
SaaZap lb>n                                511992        9/1994        ltcumben duriu the prpamtiom
o f the Corpoao Plwa
ua._  Cu Ue a o                            9/1994        ta prent
PR)IECr DIRECIOR
Rodrwo Arzbaib C.                         11/1986        11/1990
Silv Nelly Ocbh de Pad mino               11/1990        6/1991
R  wA-  PRiiz                              711991        9/1992
Fmncucico Benice G.                       1011992        9/1993
Anhm Benrua  V.P In1muaatim               10/1993
MAIN CONSUIIANIS
Andy Bm-Aty. Principal Coemim             11/1988        3/1993        Mansdr ctical .bpwjece aNd
mirted with ctabnical
_ane.ent of overall pmjecL
Price %wtomer  Geaal Coaulbn               2/1989        2/1992        Developed no   em  ad
pwoccdum
I.B.M. Aua*rwmd BrNacbo                    4/1991                      Dceveoped aulDmaaed bancb
"tem
Uniawe,                                   10/1991         1/1992       Prepwnd Mid-Term Review



25
ANNEX A
Page I of 3
COLOMBIA
CAJA AGRARIA INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(LOAN 2909-CO)
MISSION'S BACK-TO-OFFICE REPORT
1.    The first mission to discuss the ICR preparation was in January 1994. The mission
provided Caja with the guidelines for preparing the report and Caja agreed to send a draft
report to the Bank by September 30, 1994. A copy of the Aide-Memoire is attached.
2.    The next mission visited Caja in September 1994. Caja had not prepared a draft
completion report as agreed, however the Bank had prepared a draft ICR and Caja agreed
to review it and provide comments to the Bank by October 31, 1994. There was no Aide-
Memoire left by this mission. The Bank received these in the form of a marked up copy of
the draft ICR. These changes were discussed with Caja in December 1994 and agreed
changes were incorporated into the ICR.



26                           ANNEX A
Page 2 of 3
COLOMBIA
Caia Abraria Institutional Development Proiect
Supervision Mission Aide Memoire
1.    A World Bank mission composed of Jonathan Parker, Principal Operations Officer and
Robert Simsolo, Consultant, visited Bogota during January 18-28, 1994 to review the
irnplementation of this project, which is scheduled to close on June 30, 1994. The following
is a summary of the primary findings and recommendations of the mission.
Procurement
2.    Caja Agraria (CA) has only five months remaining to complete its purchase of equipment
and consulting services included in the project, and it will have to make special efforts to
complete its work within this time frame. The mission reviewed the work program presented
by the Vice Presidencia of Informatica (VPI) and recommends that the following additional
budget information be added, before the program is submitted officially for the Bank's no
objection: (i) a table which groups project expenditures by program objectives; and (ii) a table
which shows the estimated cost and content of the various procurement packages planned.
Project Completion Report
3.    The mission discussed with VPI the Project Completion Report to be submitted by CA.
It was agreed that the report should follow the guidelines provided to VPI by the mission, and
that CA would send the report to the Bank by September 30, 1994, which would be three
months after the closing date for the project.
Independent Audit
4.    The mission had a meeting with VPI and KPMG-Peat Marwick, the independent auditors
for the project. It was agreed that as part of the audit report for the year ending December 31.
1993, KPMG would also provide opinions on: (i) the Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
presented by CA to the Bank during 1992 and 1993; (ii) the balance sheet and sources and uses
of funds for the Special Account for 1992 and 1993; and (iii) the balance sheet and SOEs for
all the disbursements related to the Japanese Grant Agreement. In the case of (i) and (ii) above
the audit report would also include an accounting of all the counterpart contributions made by
CA to Part B of the project. The mission provided VPI and KPMG with copies of the Bank's
Normas de Auditoria and Resumen de Pautas.



27                              ANNEX A
Page 3 of 3
Financial Performance
5.    The missiion reviewed with the Vice Presidents of Finance and Banking the financial
performance indicators contained in the Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement for the
Agricultural Sector Credit Agreement (Loan 3575-CO). The mission will report to the Bank's
Management that CA was able to exceed the planned reduction of staff with 7,800 at the end of
1993 compared with the 8200 promised. It also kept its administrative costs lower than the 16%
required. On the other hand the mission will report that CA was unable to achieve one of the
other two key indicators. CA presently has 851 branches in operation when it had agreed to
reduce them to 760 by end year 1993. CA is also obligated to a further reduction of branches
to 650 by year end 1994, but the mnission was not given any creditable plan by CA to reach this
target. Concerning the fourth indicator, CA was in a net incone loss position at the end of 1993,
and it is obligated to cease losses for the first quarter of 1994 and earn a net profit of at least
1 % on total assets for 1994. Without the closure of branches and the increases in lending rates
agreed under Loan 3575-CO, the mission doubts that CA can achieve this fourth indicator for
the first quarter or for 1994.
January 26, 1994
Jonathan Parker
Principal Operations Officer



28                            ~~~~~ANNEX B
28                                       Page 1 of 7
CAJA AGRAMIA
VICEPRESDMENCTA DE INFORMAl ICA
San=fL de Bogoti, lunio 14 de 1995
Mr. Jonathan Parker
Principal Operations OMTicr
'Me World Bank
Washington DC.
RMf.: Comentarios al borrador de Reporte de Tcrminacion de Implernentaci6n sobre Proyecto
de Fortulecimiento Institucional (Prwstamo 2909-CO).
Estimado seftor Parker:
Hemos l1ddo cuidadosamcntc cl proyecto dc infonne en rcforcncia y reflexionado sobrc el mnismo, en
consecuencia las observaciones que a continuaci6n runitimos ticnn las siguicntes prernijas de
considcraci6n
I) En prirner lugar, podriamos sefialar quc en terminos generales sus cifais se ajustan a hechos
ciertos y relacionados con el dcscmpeBio y dcnis objetivos establecidos los cuales son mcndibles y
cuwinificablcs en el tiompo. Sobre las observacionws genralcs quo doscribcn caums quo condujcron
a los rsultados finanieros, solo dobemos bacer notar a usted, quo pricticamuate hoy dia no estin
tmbajando en la caddad ningnmo de los fincionarios responsables por la administracidn de dicho
proyecto (aprobado en f:brero de 1988) en sus primeros 6 aiSas, tan solo n el uldmo ato y medic el
suscrito puted conona sobro los desazrolros del mnismo.
Por consiguicnto sobre csas conclusiones y otros antecedentcs previos no soria indicado enitir
juicios de valor sobrc la rapQctivas actuacioncs de entoncus.
2) Considemmos sin enbargo quc las iceciones aprundidas por las partes d-ben ser consignadas an
dicho infoire seg4n las cntendernos actualtuento. Si;;ndo conscientcs do la problerAtica del sector
que han loevado a la situaci6n que hoy oxistc, La administraci6a actual ha disetlado un plan do acci6n
tendicnte a la recupcraci6n do la entidad cn un marco de mediano y aro plazo quo debemos
dostacarlo como la conclusi&n positiva quc seflala el futuro indicado para la Caja Agraria.



ANNEX B
29                                    Page 2 of 7
ANTECEDENTES RELEVANTES l)EL PROVECrO
El proyecto se inicia sabre la base do poseer La Caja una organizaci6n do negocios quo compronde
cinco grandes acividados funcionales: 3anca, Rural, Banca  )rbana, Sgro,  Cmpcnsai6n
Familiar, Provisi6n Agricola. Esto scflala una cstrategia de organizci6n corpaotiva y el
establecinminto dc politicas y procedimicntos cn todos los ordenes de la empr:sa quo se verEu
posteriormente afectados sig nficativamcntc por disposiciones legales y gubcmazentales no posibles
de prover an sus comiicnzos quo &I desvertobrar la Caja linitindola al ncgocio bancvio haccn pordor
en gran mcdida el trabajo qua se venLa adclantando.
El nuevo plan corportivo impucsto por las condiciones cxtDas no rcsult6 facil de adel tar, en
cuaDtO a la obtcnci6n do los resultados financicros cspwrados, cn parto por situarsc dentro dc un
nuevo cntomo como el de la apertura econ6mica accicrada on la quo so comprometi6 cl cstado
colombiano y on parto por su propia clcoridad; por via do Ojamplo podemos observu quo cl retiro
masivo de personal quo sc c*ctu6 en mcnos dc dos alios super6 las expectativas dc la organizaion la
cual ha tardado mas tiempo do! plancado en ajustar completamnte su estructura y fhncionamiewto.
Por otra paro dccisioncs gubernamentales quo irmponen a la Enlidad condonaciones de izitereses y
rccstructuracioncs de caftOra a sectores afbctados por dosastrcs naturales sin que se efict4 un
inmodiato financiamiento a La Caja dc los rccursos quo pierde por ese concepto ha afectado el
cumplimiento de metas.
El osfuorzo rcaizado para capacitar el personal do La Caja sc pcrdi6 at dar cumplimieato a la
poliuca ostatal dc roducci6n del tamaAo de las entidades del sector quo obligaron a la programaci6n
dc retiros voluntarios que hacian imposible un efcctivw control tcndicntc a evitar la perdida do!
porsonal capacitado.
Aspectos identificados como fiid-mnumtalcs, dcsdc cl comicnzo mismo del proyecto tales como la
necesidad de concrctar la misi6n y oricntaci6n cstrategica de La Caja y definir una cstructura
organizacional adccuada, no pudieron lIlvarse a cabo por sucesivos cambios cn la orientacion del
cstado quo afcctaban directamente a [a entidad y que impidicron no s6lo procisar la misi6n sino
tamnbien generar una nueva cultura orgamuizaciokal ainxdodor dc dila.
En el momento on quc cl proyecto idcntificaba su priaridad de definir ciaracnte su estructura
organizacional, rvponsabilidades administrativas y procedimienos oprativos, en procura de mejorar
mu propia oficiencia admoinistrativa, esta empicza a pcrdor importancia por sabreponerse una
orientei6n gubernamental tendimtc a roducir cl alcanco do Ia entidad y a contar au tama{lo y
quedan, entonces, en un sogundo piano y sin aplicaci6n In determnacion de lanas do autoridad, do
inhmai6n  y dolimimaci6n do tuneiones asi como tambi6n la riovaei6n y aplicacion de los
procediiountos operacionalas lo cual incide en la faita dc adopci6n dc nuevos y mojoars controles
sobre la actividad de los flUncionarios del proyecto, do los consultorcs contratados y posteriomnto
del proveedor de la Soluci6n integral para los sictnmas grupo T.
Tambi6n sc prcsenta un brusco vraje de una estrategia inicial de dcsccncalizaci6n a todo nivel,
dentro de In entidad, por una politica no doclanida pero dcfinitivacnm expresada en todos lIs
hechos del grupo directivo, do ccntralizci6n y concontraci6n de podcr en la casa principal.



30                                    ANNEXB
Page 3 of 7
Todo lo planteado sobrc cl desarrollo de los recursos humanos picrdc su prioridad de aplicaa6n
frente ml hecho de los rctiros voluntarios, masivos c indiscriminados.
Una vez la Caja empieza a recupcrur su estabilidad y runcionamiento normal so oncuena ficto a
problemnas finanxciros y dc pcrsonal quc sc conviecten en su inmedata prioridad y anto los cuales, a
pcnas hoy anpiezan a formulnrarse soluciones.
Quiza una de las principales pautas deI cvaluaci6n cn un proyccto de esta mnittid deben scr
referidas a la vigencia pcrnsnncntc dc los objctivos cstabiccidos. Los resuftados obtenidos sobrc los
objetivos, tienen reLaci6n dirccta tambicn con los ractores externos que afectan sus posibilidados.
Pensamos quc catos no fucron adccuadamcntc analizados en la revision propuosta a. mitad do trmmino
(por all cn 1990) y cn consecuesncia los objetivas establecidos quedaron fijados permancates y
siguieron siendo usados como base de medici6n dcl progreso.
Hay quo tener en cuenta quo la entidad sujeta como cualquier otra a fatores extenos de su entomo,
esti condicionada a responder a unas politica de admini3tracii6n y a bochos y situaciones do mayor
acontecer nacional que dictamina no solo su Dirucci6n sino cl Gobicmo Ccntral.
La Caja Agraria, a difcrcncia do las dcmAs institucioncs no se enmarca en un memrado en quo se
puoda alcan2ar "el lidcrmizgo compctitivo" (como lo afirmaba un objctivo establecdo an el estudio
contratado con Price Watcrhouse y era partc de la Plan Corporativo de entonces).
La. anterior considcraci6n us dc findamental importancia por cuanto la Caja Agraria no puedo
compotir abicrta y dirocramcntc, aut6nomamcntc y con autosuficicacia cn costos, o en diforonciaci6ra
o en segmentos especiricos o nichos del sector con cunlquier atm entidad financiera. Su marco de
actunci6n en el sector conlleva objetivos de alcance social por lo cual requiere on buena partc el
respaldo del estado, para conciliar 1os subsidios otargados en su operaci6n bancauia.
LAS LECCIONES CLAVES APRENDIDAS
Como la afirna cl rmsumcn cn rctrospoctiva, cl alcancc de los indicadorcs dependlan altamento do
factores como los siguientes:
a) El Crecirniento del Sector: La. suposici6n dcjo de ser vfilida cn los ultimos cinco atios con Its
politica macroccon6micas quc como consccucncia hicicron quc la producci6n y precios en Srn
parte de productos agricolu se rcdujera en tdrminos males considerablemento (La Sociedad dc
Agricultores de Colombia resalt6 la caida del precia ponderado al productor en t6nninos reales pam
productos como el cafe, arroz, rnalk, sorgo, cebada, trigo, semilla de algod6n. papa, soya, pima
africana y cacao; obvinmente asi niusmo cayeron tambien los iwCsos brutos recibidos por los
agicultores miu=ras por aot partc las importacionrs dui alimcntos se clcyaron tun 241% cuando
pasaron dc 876,800 toncladas a mis dc 2,990,000 toncladas). Estos sucesos necsauiamente derm
relaci6n con In caida il los dep6sitos, el crecimiento del poitfolio de criditos y el vencimito de las
crtditos.
b) La rcducci6n dc Staffl La rcducci6n logiada aunque solo hasta 1991 tusvo cfectos aftammoCo
adversos fuc mA.s alli dc la eficicncin operativa nccesara. En estudio realizado par Prce Watcihousc



ANNEXB
31                                    Page 4 of 7
se revela a la Caja Agraria con unos de los indicadorcs mis bajos del sector en Numero do
Ernpleados cn Dir. General vs. Total de empleados(I6%/), no obstarte el objetivo de un 10% el
promedio de la muestra cs dcl 22%; el NumezJ dc Pcrsonal en Oficinas vs Numero do Empteados
(84%) y cl promodjo cs dcl 75%; el Numcro dc cmpicados vs. Numcrv dc Oficinas es de solo 9.42
cuando el promcdio es de 35.4 y ol Nunicro cmpleados en Direcci6n gcncral vs. Numero de oficinas
es de 1.5 sicndo el promedio dc la mucstra 13.2.
c) LA cdlici         abiiidad ec=6micas v golitic  en el pais: quc como ya hemos mencionado
estuvicron siemprm fuera de concal dc la administraci6n de la cnatdad y afectaron por ota parte en
fbmna adversa el clima do conflanza cn la inversi6n, seguridad cn lai operaciones bancarias y
rentabilidad en gencral continuan abn, no sicndo las mnis propicias cuando sc opCra en sitios
apartados y disperos como hace la Caja Agraria.
En rosunen perdieron vigencia los indicadoros dc metas en los triinos cstablecidos por las
anterioas motivos, expliauioao as! por que no so podimi alcmnzr.
Coincidirnos cn que otmo factor que incidi6 cn cl rvsultado insatisfactorio del proyccto pese a haber
rcalizado las reducciones do staff y venta dc otros activos fiLo la acurrcncia inoportuna de estas
actividades respecto a la qjccuci6n dcl plan. La reducci6n de dichos activos y del staff debi6 ocurr
antes de anpezr el proyceto mismo.
Un monitorco ponmanonto del BIRF que ideritificando a cada paso las dificulades quo cnftcnt6 el
proyeto, hubicso procurado un mayor compromiso dcl cstado, como garante no s6lo dc los recursos
cconomicos obtenidos a travds del crfdito sino cambicn del cumplimiento de los objetivos, habrian
significado seguramento otros resulfados.
La modemi tcidn tccnol6gica, aiin pendieite dc producir sus principals resuttados dcbi6 ser
revisada cn forma mucho mnis anticipada pam cansidorar y resolver sobre:
Dedicaci6n y oricntacid6n cspccial del consultor principal a las actividades prioritarias pam
Lis cuales fuc contratado segfn los tdnninos de m-&-r-mcia y no para las actividadcs de corto
tierupo que tcnnin6 rcalizando sin ningim efecto positivo.
Evaluaci6n de las habilidadcs dc Dirccci6n y liderazgo nocemsarinas pam intcgrar sistemas de
informacion por partc dc ITM como contratista e quo ha sido muy deficiente y su czetual
cancolaci6n.
Evaluaci6n de los requcrimicrntos contra cl software adquirido, contra el software en uso y la
operaci6n. Su realizaci6n habria concluido quo un softwara adquirido probado y en
iuncionamiento en varios Bancos cma muy improbable qua no pudicra funcionar en Caja
Agraria, si no sc alim substancialmcntc. (Nunca se debi6 adquirir software por avaluacid6n,
con refercias pam luego ompezar un complejo proceso dc altcraci6n del mismo para
satisfacr los rcqucrimientos de la Caja Agrarni, quo sc oricntaron a continua opcrando
como sntes a traves del nuevo sistcma).
Simplificaci6n dc los enfbques de manejo de sistczmus dc Dcp6sitos cm oficinas sin
comunicaciones coa reemplazo por otros rnfis fuctibics.



ANNEXB
32                                       Page S of 7
La contrtaci6a dcPrice Watcrhouse quc cubrsa ustudios, discilos y conceptos pero asistmncia
limida  en La implntaci6n a una solo oficin  la cual aisla    i  rel to cn los
procedinientos, no resulto factibic de replicar, por la falta do simultaneidad y reciprocidad
en los procedimcintos nuevos con su ontomo.
Ante esmt estado dc cosas rcsult2 fficil prever quo un proycto como cl que Wnci6 La Caja s6lo puedo
plamne y ser exitoso cn =na instituci6n quc posea caracteristicas de indcpendencia y autonomia
propias de las empresas del sector privado y quto para realizalo n una ontidad tan fiutemenw
influida por Ins detcrminacionos gubcmamentl:z, como lo ea La Caja, edg  un plancamiento y
desarrollo acordc y previsivo de vomCjant  condicioncs, altamcnto flexibic y estrataicamcnto
modular de manora que pcrmnit reaccionar gcil y adecuhdamente a las tiuctuaciones dcl entomo sin
significativas variacioncs dcl objetivo final.
Actualmente se esrA adelantando el prgrama do cscuela bancaria y dc crddito quo pretende la
profesionalisaci6n dcl Funcionaio de la oficina bancaria, progrnma que so mici6 con posterioridad a
la reducci6n de personal.
La rebabilitaci6n del cCntro de computo se vncucntra practica ente rnrminadt cn fomm satiActori
la instalacion do las 1200 estaciones du trabajo esti adClana cn un 85% debiendo terminarc a
inales de julio de 1995; cl sistema de Tarjta do Crddito esta opri.ndo dcsdo d uldmo timtro do
1 994, e sitema do Rccursos Humnaos uicia ci pr6ximomos do julio y Ia autmatzaci  do  s 40
oficinas sc encuentra rctrasada pot causas ajenas a la cntidad, cl contrato con IBM se suspendib
recientomento pMr inoumplimioato de compromLos contractuales do uno de sus subcontistaa.
Hacemos adicionalmentu la anotscion especial quc la pertenencia y compromiso con cl proyecto solo
so obtiWnc cuando In administraci6n que lo promueve y lo cOccuta permanoce hasta su conclusi6n o
buena parte de el mismo, en otro caso sucodc la expaioncia comn cn las aI an   publicas,
quo cada cabio en elLa ea considerado la oportunidad do realzar cambics do Ibndo, mucbas vecce
sin considcraci6n con la bondad e proycoto trazado por administraciones antoriores.
Finalmhte, es do haccr notar, quo los requcrimicato de La Caja y sus priordados, identifiadas al
iniciarso el proyccto de fortalccimiento intucional hma rccobrado boy su vigocia y Ins politicus
seflaladas por el gobierno nacional quo buscan la recupcraci6n econ6mica de la entidad, seguramote
posibilitarn el cumplir con lo quei mis que un objetivo do proyeeto cs una nccsidad do
supervivnocia de la orgaWizaci6n
EL PLAN DE RECUPERACU6N ITACIA EL FUTURO
L-a presentc administraci6n con relaci6n al futuro do la eoddad ha diaposticado y cgpuesto los
principalcs problemas do orden financiero, patrimonial y estnuctuml quo afectn a la enddad y
considera erI burtss priotarias los siguiontes plnca y prycctos parm un horizonte do corto y
mcdiano piazo alguno.s de los cuales solo so cnumemn o menciomm brvemente por estar actualmc
en vias de ejecuci6n o aprobaci6n y se explican por si solos:
Acciones De Apoyo Del Goblerno Nacionul



ANNEX B
33                                   Page 6 of 7
1) Garantizar Margen de Solvencia (Patimonio Tecnico Requerido): Quo le permiits a la Caja
agrria continuar parteipando, sin intcrrupci6n cn cl financiamnincto al sector rmral a Uma tasa
crcciento razonable.
2) Reducci6n del Encaje sobre Dep6sitos Oficiales: Obtener su nivelaci6n con el vigenw para los
dep6sitw privados a fincs de liberar recursos pam su colocaci6n cn tesorcria.
3) Rhgimen especial para la calificari6n y provigi6n de Cartera: adopci6n de un regimen especial
para la Caja Agraza quc consultc las crctcristicas cpociales del sector ruml may difentes a las
aplicables pam el resto dcl scctor financicro y quc no afecto tan lesivamente la constituci6a de
proYLsones.
4) Dep6sitos Judiciales en Caja Agraria: Como compensaci6n del estado por la acci6n social y
politica que so ejerce a nivel nacional.
5) Partcipaci6n del recaudo del  IVA en municipios donde es exclusiva Ca4c Agraria.:
Disponiendose que L- caja Agraria los adlminiscrc cn dondc no haya otro intcrnediario fiannciero.
6) Incremento en tasa de redescuento de Finagro (cr6ditos pequeftos agricultores). : Elevar el
margen dc intcrmediaci6n para quc no g:ncrc p6rdidas para la cntidad.
7)Obtener facultades de aumir propios riesgos sobre sus bienes y operaciones: Devolvcr la
facultad de manejo sobre su Unidad de Seguros que siempre ha sido rentable.
8)Compensor Ins perdidas de oficinas que cumplen funcif6 social.: apropiar cn el Presupucsto
nacional los rccursos necosarios qu; compcnsrn las pcrdidas por cstar presesr s dondc la simple
intermediaci6n financiera no es rentable.
9) Obtener compromises de capitalizacifn(demanda del articulo 18 Ley 48/90): Raotbleecer
lesa quo establecian capitaiizaci6n dc In Caja Agraria.
10) Dacion en Pago de predios Hipotecados y venta al Incora: Efectura ta adquisic6n de predios
en daci6n en pago con dcudas cnicidas c hipotecados para venderlas simultaneamente al lncora.
11) Daciub  en pago de Redes de Electrificaci6n Rural y vent& al sistma elcrcico.
12) Faciltar el Cobro do cartera vencida mspendida actualmente por Gobierno.
13) Revocatoria de multas gencradaL por defetto patrimonial o desencaje.
14) Cancelaci6n de deudas vencidas de pequeflos csmpesinos
II)Medidas Intenas Pars Mejorar Eficiencia rAinanciera y Administrativa.
1)Metas Interns sobre el Msrgen Financiero bruto, Costo de recursos totales, Rendimiento
Colocaciones, Gatos operadonales/activo total, Gastos Laborales/ Activo Total, Rela6n
Activo Improductivo y CArtera vencids muks de 1 mes.
2) Reestructuracl6n de Revisor(a, Contralorio Interns y Seguridnd bancari.



ANNEX B
34                                 Page 7 of 7
3)Creaci6o de Gerenda NaL de Cobro Judicial en Sccretmria General.
4) Campufia de motivacidn a Personal y ubicaci6n a pendientes, interinos y vacantes.
5) Anilisis de Convencion colectiva y adopcion de una poiftica liboraL
6) Reestructuraci6n del departamento inmobiliario.
7) Descentralizaci6a de atribuciones en Rcgionales.
8) Consolidacion de Finanicianiento externo en Vicepresidencia de Cretito.
9) Continuacidn del proceso de sistematizaci6n y adquisici6n de sistema de tedecomunicaciones.
10) Depuraci6n de los estados financieros.
11) Reducci6n de UOC'S.
12) Raclonalizad6n de cubrimiento de Caja en todo cl territorio nadonaL
13)Desarrollo de programa de Publicidad c Imagen.
14) Aprovechuniento de Red de oficinas.
15) reorganaci6n de Unidad de Seguros y Fortalecimiento do nuevos producto.
16) Fortaleciciento de Fiduagrria (telemercadeo c insumos agropecuarios).
17) Racionalizaci6n del gasto en materia de saxid.
rII) ACCIONES LEGISLATIVAS
Proyecto de Ley.
Atentamet               ,1 t
An5       udzO  a
Vicepreside
cc: Dr. Gustavo Castro Gucrrmom  PrLsidcwt



35
ANNEX B
COLOMBIA
Caja Agraria Institutional Strengthening Project
Project Implementation Plan
Project        Start Date     Finish Date
IBM PC Solution        ._l
- CDTs                03/30/95     08/02/95
- CIF                 03/13/95     06/27/95
- Credit Card         11/21/94     03/16/95
- Savings             02/25/95     11/30/95
- Giros               08/16/95     11/14/95
- Human Resources     11/21/94     03/22/95
- Loans               11/21/94     05/18/95
- Remitances          06/29/95     10/04/95
Samsung Computers
- Complete the        11/29/94     06/05/95
Installation of the
1200 PC
Workstations
Computer Center
Rebuild the         10/21/94     02/15/95
Computer Center
4: C0\CUAWNNAaUIA



CAJA AGRARIA
BALANCE SHEET
CURRENCY                MILLIONS SCOL
F I N A NC IAL    POS I T  IO0N
CAJA AGRARIA             12/31/85   X  12/31/86   %  12/31/87   %  12/31/88   X  12/31/89    %  12131/90   %  12131/91   %  12/31/92    %  12/31/93    X
A S S E T S             AUDITED         AUDITED         AUIDITED        ALUDI TED       AWDITED          AUDITED         ALDI T ED      AWDITED          AUJD ITED
CASH AND DEMAND            15,831    7   21,058    7   29.897    8   33,964    7    45,987    7   65,224    8  104,846   11   19,325   19   207,828   16
0    0               0         0    0          0    0           0    0          0    0          0    0           0    0           0    0
O    0               0         0    0          0    0           0    0          0    0          0    0           0    0           0    0
O    0               0         0    0          0    0           0    0          0    0          0    0           0    0           0    0
OTHER INVESTMENTS           6,830    3   10,702    4   10,522    3   39,203    8    38,866    6   42,630    5   51,240    6    67,297    6    62,866    5
TL MINIMLHM RISK ASSTS   22,661    9   31,760   11   40,419   11   73,167   15    84,853   13  107,854   13  156,086   17   262,622   25   270,694   21
LOANS,ADVANCES,DISCNTS 132,338   55  186,459   62  243,301   64  303,722   61   404,740   62  491,039   59  478,477   52   531,826   51   611,742   47
PAST-DUE LOANS              8,476    4.   6,988    2   17,599    5   30,504    6    22,366    3   32,186    4   51,353    6    76,150    7   100,236    8
OTHER LATE REC              4,081    2   12,287    4    8,256    2    1,939    0            4,202    1           0    0          0    0      2,038    0       3,038    0
LN LOSS RES GENE   4,039    2    5,484    2    8,078    2   17,096    3    11,468    2   22,270    3   42,839    5    52,510    5    53,089    4
NET LOANS                 140,856   58  200,250   67  261,078   69  319,069   64   419,840   64  500,955   61  486,991   53   557,504   54   661,927   50
CURR OVERDUES                         0               0               0               0               0               0               0                0                0
(incl. in Net Loans)    13,242    5   17,261    6   23,414    6   30,841    6    42,303    6   45,994    6   70,358    8    61,145    6    44,988    3
O    0         0    0          0    0          0    0           0    0          0    0          0    0           0    0           0    0
GOV RECEIVABLES            32,024   13   28,540   10   27,038    7   25,544    5    36,632    6   33,535    4   34,008    4    28,221    3   132,768   10
INTEREST REC                8,456    4   10,959    4   16,482    4   24,742    5    44,914    7   65,454    8   80,431    9    82,405    8    80,103    6
LOANS IN FOR CUR            9,943    4    4,594    2    4,199    1    6,808    1                 0    0         0    0          0    0           0    0           0    0
OTHER ASSETS                8,771    4    2,721    1    2,543         1    5,354    1    14,316    2   37,595    5   70,334    8    24,682    2    60,499    5
O    0               0         0    0          0    0           0    0          0    0          0    0             0    0         0    0
TL NORMAL RISK ASSETS  200,050   83  247,064   83  311,340   83  381,517   76   515,702   79  637,539   77  671,764   74   692,812   66   935,297   71
TOTAL BANKING ASSETS   222,711   92  278,824   93  351,759   93  454,684   91   600,555   92  745,393   90  827,850   91   955,434   92 1,205,991   92
0              0               0                0               0               0                0                0
PREMISES(NET)               1,922    1    2,785    1    3,696    1    7,079    1            8,968    1   12,553    2   14,832    2    16,796    2    17,503    1
ACCUML DEP                  1,333    1    1,580    1    1,866    0    2,351    0            3,093    0    4,384    1    6,064    1    10,086    1                 0    0
ASSET REV                   9,789    4   10,117    3    9,855    3   19,355    4    19,949    3   28,567    3   38,317    4    38,351    4    58,233    4
INS DIV                     1,413    1    1,917    1    2,593    1    3,579    1            6,160    1    8,111    1   14,935    2    20,508    2    24,110    2
AGRIC INPUTS                3,094    1    2,860       1    5,937    2   11,602    2    18,504    3   32,812    4   16,967    2    10,793    1                 9,593    1
TOTAL LONG TERM ASSETS  16,218    7   17,679    6   22,081    6   41,615    8    53,581    8   82,043   10   85,051    9    86,448    8   109,439    8
0         0    0          0    0          0    0                0               0         0    0                0                0
SUNDRY ASSETS               2,669    1    2,042    1    3,515         1    3,583    1            0    0         0    0                0          0    0           o    0
0              0               0               0                0               0              0                0                0
TOTAL OTHER ASSETS      2,669    1    2,042    1    3,515         1    3,583    1            0    0          0    0          0    0           0    0           0    0
---  -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - - - -  -- - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - -r
TO0T A L  A S S E T 5 241,598  100  298,545  100  377,355  100  499,882  100   654,136  100  827,436  100  912,901  100 1,041,882  100 1,315,430  100 
~~~~~~~3CE~~~~~~~~~~=  -   -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



CAJA AGRARIA
BALANCE SHEET
CURRENCY:               MILLIONS SCOL
12/31/85   X  12/31/86   %  12/31/87   X  12/31/88   %  12/31/89    Z  12/31/90   %  12/31/91   1  12/31/92                 12/31/93    Z
CAJA AGRARIA            AUIDITED       AUDITED        AUIDITED        AUDITED        AUIDITED        AUD17ED         AUDITED        AUDITED         AUJDITED
DEMAND DEPOSITS/OTHER   34,787   14   41,477   14   53,194   14   64,756   13    90,583   14  115,768   14  116,161   13   179,521   17   255,744   19
SAVINGS                   46,481   19   63,709   21   80,487   21   95,977   19   119.043   18  149,360   18  184,040   20   223.540   21   260,903   20
TIME DEPOSITS/OTHER       13,695    6   21,661    7   25,733    7   26,142    5    32,680    5   51,149    6   77,386    8    69,833    7    55,189    4
OTHER                     15,200    6    8,753    3   15,578    4   24,911    5    38,354    6   40.510    5   36,787    4    34,248    3    73,124    6
O    0         0    0         0    0          0    0          0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0          0    0
O    0         0    0         0    0          0    0          0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0          0    0
0    0         0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0          0    0
OTHER DEPOSITS                  0    0         0    0         0    0         0    0       2,050    0    3,830    0         82    0      2,004    0         800    0
TOTAL DEPOSITS           110,163   46  135,600   45  174,992   46  211,786   42   282,710   43  360,617   44  414,456   45   509,14"   49   645,760   49
NEW WORLD BANK LOAN            0    0          0    0         0    0         0    0       1,225    0    2,046    0    4,606    1        4,564    0       4,848    0
FFAP,FFI ETS              33,280   14   50,313   17   63,809   17  100,131   20   150,231   23  187,432   23  232,737   25   305,639   29   349,076   27
BANCO DE LA REP. DISC   11,425    5   13,585    5   12,498    3   12,148    2                 0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0          0    0
AID LOANS                      7    0          4    0         2    0         0    0           0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0          0    0
BRANCHES AND AGENC        4,931    2    6,804    2    8,096    2    9,467    2    10,401    2    6,248    1   19,741    2    27,116    3                6,193    0
BONDS PAYABLE             12,443    5   16,950    6   22,695    6   27,746    6    34,508    5   44,827    5   42,555    5    28,397    3    14,199    1
APPROP RET. PLAN          39,234   16   45,424   15   53,528   14   66,433   13    54,449    8   90,553   11  102,887   11   110,298   11   160,141   12
O    0         0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0          0    0
RES. FOR INSURANCE           910    0    1,604    1    2,281    1    3,009    1          5,197    1          0    0         0    0          0    0           0    0
OTHER LIABILITIES          8,575    4    5,64.9    2   12,203    3    9,247    2    44,077    7   86,943   11   98,231   II    94,716    9   106,966    8
0    0         0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0          0    0
TL--SENIOR--LIABILITIES --220,968    --91 -2 --,933 --92 -350,104--93--39,967--88-582,---8-89-778,666--94--915,213---0--1,0--,876--1---1,287,1----98
TTALSNO LIABILITIES    220,968   91  275,933   92  350,104   93  439,967   88   582,798   89  778,666   94  915,213  100 1,079,876  104 1,287,183   98
SHARE CAPITAL             13,879    6   18,575    6   24,490    6   40,332    8    50,514    8   63,761    8   63,770    7    95,783    9   185,523   14
ACCUMN GAINCLOSS)         (3,102)  (1)  (6,202)  (2)  (7,209)  (2)          20    0        876    0  (43,975)  (5)(104,569) (11) (164,336) (16) (189,130) (14)
ASSET REVAL                9,853    4   10,239    3    9,970    3   19,563    4    19,948    3   28,567    3   38,317    4    30,359    3    31,854    2
O    0         0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0         0    0         0    0          0    0           0    0
0    0         0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0          0    0
O    0         0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0       417    0       170    0           0    0          0    0
NET WORTH                 20,630    9   22,612    8   27,251    7   59,915   12    71,338   11   48,770    6   (2,312)  (0)  (37,994)  (4)   28,247    2
TL LIABs I. NET WORTH   241,598  100  298,545  100  377,355  100  499,882  100   654,136  100  827,436  100  912,901  100 1,041,882  100 1,315,430  100
EGUIV. USS MILLIONS        1,688          1,526           1,555          1,671           1,701          1,648           1,467           1,531           1,618>
0
b-ft



CAJA AGRARIA
INCOME STATEMENT
CURRENCY:              MILLIONS SCOL
CAJA AGRARIA            12/31/85   %  12/31/86   %  12/31/87   %  12/31/88   Z  12/31/89    %  12/31/90   X  12/31/91   1  12/31/92    %  12/31/93    1
AUIDITED       ALUDITED       AUDITED         ALUDI TED      AUDITED         ALUDI TED      AUDITED        AUDITED         AUDITED
INTEREST INCOME           34,599   95   44,679   95   58,597   94   75.779   94   103 783   94  141.795   93  161,874   96   152.588   91    170772   89
INTEREST EXPENSE          18,769   51   24,609   52   30,884   50   40,199   50    53.698   49   78,145   52  101,553   60   116,693   69    121220   63
OTHER INT. EXP.                0               0              0    0         0    0           0    0         0    0         0    0               -O          0    0
NET INTEREST INCOME       15,830   43   20,070   43   27,713   45   35,580   44    50,085   45   63,650   42   60,321   36    35,895   21    49,552   26
Comm A FEE INC             1,958    5    2,524    5    3,464    6    5,187    6          6,782    6    9,882    7    6,954    4         8,462    5       11375    6
INVESTMNET INCOME              0    0          0    0         0    0         0    0          0    0          0    0         0    0          0    0           0    0
SUNDRY INCOM4E                 0    0          0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0         0    0         0    0      6,888    4        9111    5
TOTAL OPERATING REVENU  36,557  100   47,203  100   62,061  100   80,966  100   110,565  100  151,677  100  168,828  100   167,938  100   191,258  100
NET INT.JNC., COWM. &   17,78.8  49   22,594   48   31,177   50   40,767   50    56,867   51   73,532   48   67,275   40    51,245   31    70,038   37
LESS;                                0              0              0               0               0              0               0               0               0
COMM&WORL BANK TA          19    0        23    0         27    0        81    0          0    0          0    0         0    0          0    0           0    0
OTHERCADMIN             8,004   22   11,446   24   13,367   22   20,692   26    14,677   13   25,935   17   16,313   10    27,217   16    31,227   16
DEPRECTN & ANNORT         249    1       250    1        324    1       532    1      1,167    1    1,752    1    2,112    1    11,331    7    10,357    5
UNCOLLECT ACCTS         2,927    8    4,018    9    5,435    9   13,597   17          7,919    7   15,342   10   31,232   18    40,844   24    36,557   19
NET OPERATING INCOME       6,589   18    6,857   15   12,024   19    5,865    7    33,104   30   30,503   20   17,618   10   (28,147) -17    (8,103)  -4
OTHER                      6,720   18    9,238   20   10,546   17   15,718   19    (2,201)  -2              79    0   (6,078)  -4       3,978    2    16,749    9
SALE OF ASSETS                 0    0          0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0         0    0         0    0    21,69 13    28,889 15
INSURANCE                  2,451    7    3,497    7    4,904    8    7,511    9          7,087    6    9,943    7    8,150    5    12,161    7    10,565    6
SALE AG GOODS              1,915    5    1,513    3    2,010    3    4,364    5          6,114    6   10,525    7    3,131    2         1,648    1        (416)  -0
OVERACC EXPENSES               0    0          0    6         0    0         0    0           0    0         0    0         0    0           0    0               0
INFLAT ION ADJUSTM4ENT                                                                                                                 23,175   14      26468   14
NET INC BEF PERSONNEL   17,675   48   21,105   45   29,484   48   33,458   41    44,104   40   51,050   34.  22,821   14    34,284   20    74,152   39
PERSONNEL EXP             17,483   48   24,074   51   30,491   49   40,631   50    50,352   46   87,563   58   83,415   49    94,051   56    98,947   52
NET PRO FIT                  192    1   (2,969)  -6   (1,007)  -2   (7,173)  -9    (6,248)  -6  (36,513) -24  (60,594) -36   (59,767) -36   (24,795) -13
EQUJIV. USS MILLIONS        1.34         -15.18           -4.15         -23.97          -16.25         -72.71          -97.36          -87.80          -30.49
0
Loi -



========================================n===c=============L-== - --sa---$-=nnn=-sin.n..--a ---asassa.*.ssns-n
CAJA AGRARIA                    R A T I 0  A N A L Y S I S
--- --- --- -- --- --- -   --- --- -- -  - --- -- --- ---   - --   --- -   --- _   - _ -- -- --- -.- - . . . - . -- - . . -- - . . . . . . . - . . . . -.- --- -- -- , -_ - --
12/31/85       12/31/86      12/31/87       12/31/88       12/31/89        12/31/90       12/31/91       12/31/92        12/31/93
E A R N I N G S         ACTUAL         ACTUAL         ACTUAL         ACTUAL         ACTUAL         ACTUAL         ACTUAL          ACTUAL          ACTUAL
NOI/AVG BANKING ASSETS    2.96   X        2.73   X       3.81   X       1.45   X        6.27   X       4.53   2       2.24   X      -3.16   2       -0.75   X
RETURN ON AVG NET WRTH    0.93   1    -13.73   1        -4.04   X    -16.46   X        -9.52   2    -60.80   X   -260.85   2       296.57   X      508.77   X
RETURN ON AVG ASSETS       0.08   X      -1.10   2      -0.30   2      -1.64   X       -1.08   2      -4.93   2      -6.96   2      -6.11   2       -2.10   2
O P E R A T I O N S
INT.EXP./DEP.&BOR.FDS.   11.22   X       11.37   X      11.27   X      11.43   X      11.46   2      13.14   2      14.63   2       13.77   X       11.96   X
INT INC/INT EXP          184.34   2    181.56   X    189.73   2    188.51   X        193.27   2    181.45   X    159.40   X        130.76   X      140.88   2
NET INT.NARGIN            45.75   X      44.92   X      47.29   2      46.95 f        48.26   X      44.89   X      37.26   2       23.52   X       29.02   2
OPERATING MARGIN          18.02   X      14.53   2      19.37   2       7.24   X       29.94   X     20.11   2      10.44   2      -16.76   X       -4.24   X
PERSONNEL EX/FIN EXP      80.58   X      84.10   2      83.95   2      75.53   X      81.72   X      93.66   X      62.82   X       59.70   2       62.71   2
PERSONNEL EX/NII         110.44   2    119.95   2    110.02   X    114.20   X         100.53   X    137.57   X    138.29   2       262.02   2      199.68   2
PERS EXP/AVG NRASETSS    10.40   2       12.46   X      12.13   2      12.69   X       12.06   1     16.17   X      13.43   X       14.44   2       13.49   2
TOTAL ADMIN./TOT.OPER.   69.72   X       75.25   2      70.67   2      75.74   1       58.82   X     74.83   2      59.07   1       72.21   X       68.06   2
TOTAL ADNIN/DEP-OTHER    26.84   1       32.03   2      30.64   X      35.42   1      30.16   2      40.21   X      28.58   2       28.45   X       24.85   2
PERSONNEL EX/LOANS        12.42   2      12.44   X      11.69   2      12.16   X       11.79   X     18.35   X      15.84   X       16.50   2       16.23   2
TOTAL ADNIN/LOANS         18.10   X      18.36   2      16.81   2      18.35   1       15.23   X     23.11   X      20.84   2       22.80   2       21.28   1
INT.EXP./TOT.OP.REV.      51.34   %      52.13   X      49.76   2     49.65   X       48.57   X      59.60   X      63.37   1       69.30   2       67.50   1
OTHER OP.EXP./T.O.R.      21.89   X      24.25   2      21.54   2      25.56   X       13.27   X      17.10   1      9.66   2       16.21   2       16.33   2
NET PROFIT MARGIN          0.53   X      -6.29   X      -1.62   X      -8.86   X       -5.65   X    -24.07   2    -35.89   2       -35.59   1      -12.96   2
AVERAGE LOAN INTEREST                    26.73   2      25.79   2      25.47   X       27.26   X     29.84   X      30.74   1       26.82   2        0.00   1
AVERAGE COST OF DEPOSITS                 13.89   2      13.70   X      13.97   X       14.19   X      15.93   X     16.99   X       15.96   2       13.40   X
SPREAD                                   12.84   X      12.09   X      11.49   X       13.08   X     13.91   1      13.75   X       10.86   1      -13.40   2
TNW/RISK ASSETS            9.26   X       8.11   2       7.75   2      13.18   1       11.88   X      6.54   X      -0.28   X       -3.98   X        2.34   2
TNW/LOANS                 14.65   X      11.69   X      10.44   2      17.93   X       16.70   X      9.74   2      -0.47   2       -6.82   X        4.27   2
RETIRE LIAB./TOTAL LIA   17.76   1       16.46   X      15.29   2      15.10   X        9.34   1     11.63   X      11.24   X       10.21   2       12.44   X
GOV'T. FUNDS/TOTAL LIA   25.86   X       29.30   X      28.28   X      31.83   X      31.70   2      29.83   2      30.08   X       30.93   X       28.22   2
A S S E T Q U A L I T Y
LN LSS RES/NONPERF LNS       NA   X         NA   X         NA   X         NA   X          NA   X        NA   X         NA   X          NA   X          NA   X
LN LSS RES/TOTAL LOANS    2.87   X        2.74   X       3.09   2       5.36   X        2.73   X      4.45   1       8.80   2        9.42   2        8.02   2
CHARGE OFF/LN LOSS RES   72.47   X       73.27   X      67.28   X      79.53   X      69.05   X      68.89   X      72.91   2       77.78   X       68.86   X
OVERDUES/TOTAL LOANS      18.32   X      18.25   2      18.87   X      19.83   X       16.40   X     15.61   X      24.99   2       24.99   X       22.40   X
L I O U I D I T Y
MRA/DEPOSITS              20.57   X      23.42   X      23.10   2      34.55   X      30.01   X      29.91   X      37.66   1       51.58   X       41.92   1
LOANS/DEP.&BORR.          84.18   2      92.51   X      95.29   2      90.69   X      89.58   2    138.92   2    117.50   2        109.50   2      102.50   2
C A P I T A L I Z A T I O N
TL NET WORTH/TL ASSETS    8.54   X        7.57   1       7.22   2      11.99   1      10.91   X       5.89   X      -0.25   2       -3.65   X        2.15   X
TL LIABS/TL NET WORTH    10.71   x       12.20   x      12.85   x       7.34   x       8.17   x      15.97   x   -395.85   x       -28.42   x      45.57   x
DEP.& BORR./TNW            8.11   x       9.57   x      10.05   x       5.87   x       6.57   x       3.89   x   -102.66   x        -8.16   x       12.53   x
G R 0 U T H (REAL)
LOANS                             X      17.49   X       5.14   X      -4.60   X       4.35   X      -9.95   2    -23.33   1        -6.16   2      18.73   X                      >
DEPOSITS                           2      1.73   2       4.07   2      -5.52   X       5.86   2      -3.73   X      -9.36   2        0.69   X        5.69   2                     z
HRA                                2     15.83   1       2.63   2      41.31   X      -8.03   2      -4.07   2      14.13   X       37.91   2       3.07   X
NRA                               X       2.07   2       1.63   2      -4.34   X       7.19   X      -6.70   X    -16.90   2       -15.46   2      35.00   X
INVESTMENT
OPER.REVENUE                       2      6.71   2       6.03   2       1.84   X       8.29   X       3.53   X    -12.22   2       -18.46   2       13.89   2
CAPITAL FUNDS                     X      -9.42   2      -2.81   X      71.63   2      -5.58   X    -48.40   X   -103.74   2    1247.00   2    -174.35   1
NET INCOME                         2  -1377.98   1    -72.65   2    456.06   2       -30.92   2    -12.64   2    -64.75   X         23.14   X     116.29   X
BORROWED FUNDS                     2     16.91   2      -1.25   X      10.41   X       5.32   X      -5.58   2      -1.21   2        7.13   2       14.09   2
TOTAL ADMIN COSTS                        15.18   X      -0.42   X       9.15   2     -15.91   2      31.72   2    -30.70   2        -0.33   2      -10.55   X
INFLATION INDEX (LOCAL    1.00   1        1.21   X       1.50   2       1.92   X       2.42   1       3.21   1       4.07   X       4.97   2        5.96   X
ANNUAL INFLATION           1.00   2       1.21   X       1.24   2       1.28   X        1.26   2      1.33   1       1.27   2        1.22   X        1.20   1
TOTAL ADMIN COSTS vs 1986                               -0.42   2       8.69   X       -8.60   2     20.40   1    -16.57   2       -16.84   2      -25.61   2
AVE. EXC. RATE US$1=CO  143.10          195.60         242.60         299.20         384.60         502.20         622.40          680.70         813.20



ANNEX C. 3
40                          Page 1 of 9
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR CREDIT PROJECT
CAJA AGRARIA CORPORATE PLAN
Backzround
!.          CAJA DE CREDITO AGRARIO, INDUSTRLL E MINERO, generally kncwn as
Caja Agraria,  is one of the largest banks in Colombia with assets as at
12/31/91 of ColS 900 000 million (USS1.4 billion) and the largest credit
instituttor. lending to agriculture in Colombia.  As at 12131/91, Caja had 886
bank branches and about 460 stores selling agricultural inputs and a total
staff of about 15,000.  Because of Caja's important role in agricultural
credit, both in terms of volume and coverage of the small farmer sector, its
64nancial performance has a wide i=pact.  The provision of specializad rural
credit began in Colombia in 1924 with the establishment cf Banco hipotecario
(BAH) to provide loans for rural housing.  In 1925, a section was created
(Caja de Ahorros) to mobilize savings and in 1927, in an effort to lower the
cost of production for farmers, another section was added for the provision of
agricultural supplies such as machinery, fertilizers, seeds and insecticides.
In 1931, BAH was reorganized into tvo separate institutions, Caja de Credito
Agrario and Caja Colcmbiana de Ahorros.  Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y
Minero (CAJA) was created when these tuo institutions merged in 1934.  In
1944, CAJA's sco:e of operations was widened to include the sale of insurance.
Past Performance
2.          Until 1974, CAJA regularl7 showed profits ever7 year;  the reasons
were multiple, among which the most important were : (i) it enjoyed a
practical monopoly in the mobilization of rural savings, remunerated at a rate
much lower than in the large towns; (ii) it enjoyed relative freedc from
reserve requirements imposed on other banking institutions; and (ii4) it
issued bonds that commercial banks had to buy as forced investments,
remunerated at 4Z ncminal, until these were abolished in 1990.  In the second
half of the seventies, under pressure from the workers' union, Caja through
consecutive negotiations, granted increases in overall compensatior. and, most
importantly, a generous pension plan.   By the early 1980s, CAJA was facing
continuing financial losses due mainly to increasing personnel costs as a
result of rapidly increasing staff levels at higher real wages, and cf
provisions for accrued pensions.  By the end of 1983, these losses had
acc_mulated to COLS 30,000 million (USS300 m4llion).  In order to maintain
minimum equity/asset levels, Goverrnment had to cover this accumulated loss
with a series of promissory notes, scme of which are still outstanding.



41                          ANNEX C 3
Page 2 of 9
Present Financial Status
3.          Reported financial losses abated somewhat in the period from 1986
through 1989, but jumped dramatically in 1990 to ColS 36,500 million (USS66
million) mainly due to the Superintendent of Banks' request for Caja to
increase the provision for pension fund liabilities which Caja had been
underproviding in 1988 and 1989. Total accumulated losses appear in the 1990
balance sheet as ColS 43,468 million, or US$78.5 million, or about half of the
total of US$166.7 million of share capital and assets reevaluation. As a
result of these high losses, and projected higher losses for the years to
come, the Govern=ent formed a task force in December 1990, to study CAJA's
problems and to reco=end a course of action.
4.          Based on the recommendations of the task force, Decree 1755 was
passed on July 4, 1991 outlining a new operational plan for CAJA and a
restructuring agreement was signed on December 4, 1991 with the FONDO DE
GARANTIAS DE INSTITUCIONES FINANCIERAS (FOGAFIN), the Guarantee Fund for
Financial Institutions, representing the Government.  Under the terms of this
agreement, FOGAFIN has issued a Letter of Guarantee for ColS 106,000 million,
ensuring the payment of CAJA's pension plan, in case CAJA became insolvent.
The agreement also stipulated that Caja would reduce its staff by about 4,500
(this was carried out in late 1991, at a cost in severance pay of about
ColS 30,000 millicn - about US$50 million).  In addition several covenants
dictated that Caja, within dated deadlines, would submit plans for
imorovements to be introduced in several of its activities.
5.          Apart from the termination of about 4,500 staff, and that
FOGAFIN's Letter of Guarantee was registered in CAJA's books as additional
equity, thus satisfying the Superintendencia Bancaria's ratio of equity to
risk assets, no other specific action was taken to improve Caja.  The value of
FOGAFIN's Letter of Guarantee, which was non-negotiable and represented no
cash transfer, did not, however, provide badly needed additional resources to
Caja, nor did the Government transfer any new funds to Caja.
6.           In the absence of any specific action, Caja's resources have
-continued to erode as a result of accumulated and continuing losses, and the
reduced mobilization of deposits.  Caja has been unable to maintain its level
of lending, and the amount of loans processed during the last three years has
been shrinking, in real terms, by 191 from 1989 to 1990 and by a further 37:
from 1990 to 1991; the budgeted lending program for 1992 represents, in real
terms, only 54: of what it was in 1990. Also, diminishing income from less
lending has not been offset by a reduction in administrative and operational
costs, which remain at a level difficult to support.  Another problem is the
erosion in the quality of its portfolio which has deteriorated during the past
three to four years; eventual portfolio losses are not fully reflected in its
przv4s'cn for bad debts.
7.          As a result of this accumulation of financial and management
problems over time, it became clear to Government and Caja that the



ANNEX C.3
42                           Page 3 of 9
institution had to be restructured in all aspects, and that Caja's future role
had to be redefined.  In the light of this redefinition, the contract signed
with Government and FOGAFIN in December 1991 has to be complemented and
expanded to represent Caja's plan of action for the next 5 years.
Obiectives
8.           The basic objectives of a restructured and raticnalized Caja
Agraria are:
-     to finance agricultural and rural sector development;
-     to promote the development of an efficier.t financial rural sector,
thus contributing to financial sector development;
-     to operate under financial per--ormance criteria equivalent to
those of privately owned financial institutions;
-     to limit its activities to banking and credit, except for lending-
related insurance, the family subsidy program under trust fund
arrangements with the Government and ancillary non-lending support
services to the Covernment under a well defined fee structure, the
latter only urntil such time as the Gover=ent can assign the
responsibilities to a more appropriate institution; and
ultimately, as these objectives are met, to regionalize and/or
privatize part or all of Caja itself.
Policies
9.           Target Market.  Caja will principally focus its resource
mobilization, financing and banking activities on the market segment of small-
and medium-scale farmers and rural entrepreneurs in rural areas.  Within the
financial capabilities provided by the resources it mobilizes and by available
rediscounting facilities, Caja will finance any profitable agricultural and
rural-related investment activity and provide a wide range of banking
services.  Caja's urban network will serve mainly the same target market and
range of act4vites and contribute to the transfer of financial resources to
the rural areas.  The expansion of Caja's present lending activities in urban
areas or further expansion into other areas of banking and/or financing will
be contemplated only after the restructuring and rationalization plan has been
successfully completed, and will be subject to the same perfor=ance criteria
that would be applied by commercial banks.
10.          Lending Policies.  Caja's interest rates, whether from their own
resources or from available rediscounting facilities, will be linked and
eventually be set at cc ercial rates, i.e., DTF plus a spread adequate to
cover intermediation costs, maturity, risk, and a normal profit.  Caja will
provide short, medium and long credit, as required by the financing needs of



ANNEX C. 3
Page 4 of 9
each investment. Credit evaluation will be based on the investment's
financial viability and the cash flow prospects of the enterprise and/or
investment, supplemented by appropriate collateral.
11.         Sources of Funds.  Caja will predominantly rely on market resource
mobilization in rural and urban markets, including inter alia deposit and
saving accounts, and term deposits. It-will also have access to rediscounts
through FINAGRO and the Banco de la Republ4ca.
12.         Financial Performance Criteria.  Caja's gene'ral financial
objective will be to generate sufficient earnings from its banking and
financial operations to cover its operating and financial costs, including
provision for bad debts, and provide an adequate rate of return on its assets.
The CarDorate Plan
13.         In order to achieve its objectives and stated policies, Caja has
submitted, and the Government has approved, a Corporate Plan, which has four
main components: (i) Financial Restructuring; (ii) Organizational
rationalization; (iii) Management and Supervision; and (iv) Operational
Strengthening.
Financial Restr-ucturin- of Cala
14.         On November 8, 1992, the Congress of Colombia approved Law 17
ordering the transfer of an amount up to Col$56,000 million to Caja Agraria,
from the supplementary 1992 Budget; by December 30, 1992, the Government
issued Decree Nos. 2095 and 2189 transfering this amount of Col$56,000 million
to Caja Agraria, of which ColS24,000 million in cash, and Col$32,000 million
in Bcnds. This first payment was part of the recapitalization of Caja
Agraria, which would total ColS140,000 million over a three-year period under
the restructuring of this institution, as confirmed by a letter dated November
18, 1992, from the Minister of Finance to the Bank.   The 1993 Budget includes
adit4onal transfers totalling ColS62,800 million.  Disbursements by the
Government are subject to satisfactory progress in implementing the Corporate
Plan.
15.         The Government has renewed for 1993 the guarantee covering Caja's
pension plan liability (see para. 4 above), pending final resolution of this
liability; in the meantine, Caja retains responsibility for payment of
pensions as these become due during any given year, and annually provide for
accrued pensions.
16.         Caja and the Government have entered into an agreement under which
Caja would receive, from the Government Budget, an amount of Col$5,000 million
each in 1993 and 1994 as a the direct subsidy for banking and ancillary
serv'ces provided by Caja through some of its money-losing branches that the
Government has requested Caja to keep open.



ANNEX C 3
44                           Page 5 of 9
17.          Caja would ccmpleta the implementation of tha 1992-1993
divestiture of Caja's ncn-banking assets (except insurance activity) and
application of the funds to the capital structure of the institution.
Rationalization of Cala
18.          Caja Agraria is expected, by end 1994, to consolidate its banking
operations into approxi_ately 650 branches and agencies, of which at least 550
would be financially profitable, with a staff of no more than 7,200 employees.
The figures include branches in locations whera tha Government may
transitionally wish to retain presence through Caja (see para. 16).  The steps
to rationalize Caja would include:
(a)   Closing of an additional 40 branches by early 1993, beyond the 35
closed down by December 31, 1992 from a preliminary list of 150
money-losing branches concentrated predominantly in urban areas
and in rural localities where other banks are operating, and
review of an additional 90 during 1993 for possible closing;
(b)   Carry out the program of debt recovery agreed with the Government
under the FOGAFIN agreement so that by end of 1993 and 1994,
arrears will be reduced to 75% and 90% respectively of December
1991 arrear3 level.  Annual loar. refinancings should be separately
accounted for in Caja statements;
(d)   With the agreed staff and branch retrenchment and debt recovery
programs, Caja's estimated financial results wculd show losses of
about Col$ 11,000 million in 1993 (as compared to over ColS76,000
in 1992), turning into profits of about 10,000 million in 1994
with the recapitalization detailed under "Financial
Restructuring", and over Col$37,000 million in 1995.  Performance
indicators, developed from these projections, appear on a table
attached to this Plan, and would serve as a basis for the mid-term
review of the project; and
(e)   Voluntary separation of Caja's personnel: (i) from its non-banking
activities whose assets will be divested during 1992-1993; and
(ii) and of the personnel not to be retained or reassigned from
the branches to be closed down by December 31, 1992 or to be
closed dcwn during 1993.  Financing of the compensation package
for (i) will be provided from the receipts from the sale of such
assets, and for (ii) from the recapitalization funds provided by
Government in 1992 and 1993.  Appropriate arragements would be
made by October 31, 1993 for the staff to be separated during
1994.



45                         ANNEX C  3
Page 6 of 9
Management and Supervision
19.         The present composition of the Board of Directors of Caja,
consisting of the Minister of Agriculture (or his representative) who chairs
the Board, the Minister of Hacienda (or his representative), a representative
of the Comision Nacional de Credito Agricola and two representatives of the
President of Colombia would be retained; Howaver, *the present appointments
have been reviewed early in 1993, and presently two representatives of the
private banking/financial sector ara now serving on the Board.  The director
of FOGAFIN (or his representative) is now a de-facto member of the Board, with
voting rights.
20.         The new President of Caja, previously President of FINAGRO, the
Government's institution for the rediscount of agricultural credit operations,
comes with well established professional qualifications; he was also in the
past Vice-Minister of Agriculture. In the absence of performance
considerations, continuity of service by the President should be ensured, to
the extent possible, for the duration of the restructuring and rationalization
program (three to five years);
21.         Caja will establish a technical panel chaired by the new
Preside-t, with external professional support, to review the technical
quali-ications of all branch managers and propose by Jurne 30, 1993 a program
of separation for those managers considered not to meet the necessary banking
and financial qualifications. The same panel will also propose a merit system
for the selection of replacement branch managers and to fill the approximately
416 branches (before the rationalization program) where branch manager
vacancies exist.  Branch managers continuity should also be ensured, in the
absence of performance considerations.
22.         Caja will carry out, in 1993, a review of its high and medium
management salary and compensation scales and, if necessary, will adjust its
salary and benefits to provide a total compensation package competitive with
the private sector banking sector.
23.         During the implementation of Caja's restructuring and
rationalization program, Superintendencia Bancaria will be responsible for
monitoring the program and providing regularly independent reports to the
Board of Directors of Caja on the progress of the program to restore financial
profitability to Caja.  In addition to the six-monthly progress report to be
sent to the World Bank by Caja, Superintendencia Bancaria will issue a six-
month su=mary with the highlights of program progress, which will be sent to
the World Bank by Caja.
Operational Strengthening
24.         Caja Agraria will set-up a working group to carry out the
following tasks:



ANNEX C.3
46                          Page 7 of 9
(a)   Review of lending policies and procedures, leading to
raco=endations for revised, or new, policies and procedures;
after consideration by management, imple=entation of new lendiLng
policies and procedures; task to be completed by June 30, 1993.
(b)   Develop and implement internal training and upgrade programs with
special urgency and emphasis on loan officers and their
supervisors; task to be completed by early 1993, and remain as a
continuous activity within Caja Agraria.
25.         Caja will design, develop and implement new control procedures,
management information systems and cost accounting for each branch as profit
centers; these systems should be operational by June 30, 1993.
Performance Indicators for Cala Agrar4a
Caja has updated its financial projections, including the efrects of the
improvements/changes that are expected to be carried-out by Caja Agraria in
the course of the next three years.  The results of these projections are
sho'wn below
Revised   -------Projected---------
1991      1992      1993       1994
--------- (in ColS million)---------
Basic Proiection-
(Implementation of Corporate Plan)
Portfolio at end of year ......    486,990  524,508   695,000    873,000
Operating results ..... .......   (60,594) (76,259)  (10,884)    10,041
5=55 - -- -          -- - -    - - - ---
With no chanzes
Portfolio at end of year   .....  486,990   515,5L8  661,759    828,914
Operating results .............   (60,594)  (28,660)  (27,362)   (10,096)
_______   -s --------           ______----
From the above, it becomes obvious that the t-o important steps
already under implementation, closing of money-los0i.g branches and reduction
in personnel, were essential to return Caja Agraria to a balanced operation,
and to achieve a return on assets.  But Caja, to beccme a viable financial



47                          ANNEX C 3
Page 8 of 9
institution must increase its profit situation, and this can only be achieved
by streamlining Caja, and continue with further closing of branches, at the
rate of about 100 each year for 1993 and 1994; these steps are part of the
Corporate Plan.
These closings have been projected in the next table, showing the
movement of staff numbers, and the status of operating branches in Caja:
Cala Aeraria reduction in number of Staff numbers
Existing    -----Projected ---------
1991      1992       1993       1994
Present number of staff                 10,250'
After closing of 60 branches                        9,150
Closing of about 100 branches/year                            8,200    7,200
,____._    _.,___    ,___M   ___m I
Caia Azraria number of ooerating branches
886       806       760       6501'
__.__     _.,,,      OfS    __,__
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
From the above analysis, the following performance indicators will be retained
for the mid-term review :
Ooerating results : That Caja would have a balanced operation by December 31,
1993, and show a return on assets, in real terms, of at least 1t by December
31, 1994.
Staff numbers : Caja's establishment would not exceed 8,200 staff by December
31, 1993 and 7,200 by December 31, 1994.
1/ Normal attrition rate is about 3: per year
2/ Including about 100 branches to be operated with Goverrnent-funded
financing.



ANNEX C 3
48                           Page 9 of 9
Number of branches    Cajas' number of operating branches would fall to about
800 by and of 1992, and be reduced to about 760 and 650 respectively by and of
1993 and 1994.  These numbers include the branches for which Coverr-ent is
fully payi-ng for thair operation.



CAJA DE CREDITO AGRARIO, INDUSTRIAL Y MINERO
PROYECTO DE FORTALECIMIENTO INSTITUCIONAL
EJECUCION PRESUPUESTAL CREDITO 2909-CO - CAJA-BIRF
1989-1994
Mil/ones de Do6ares-
E J E C U C I O N
PRESUPUEST         1989             1990            1991            1992          1993          ENERO,JULIO/94                     ACUMULADO
COMPONENTE    CAJA B.M  TOT CAJA B M  TOT CAJA B M  TOT CAJA B M  TOT. CAJA B M  TOT CAJA B.M. TOT CAJA B M  TOT                        CAJA   %   BIRF   %   TOTAL          %
1 Construcciones    140        14.0  38         38   43         43   18          18  1.7         17   1.6        1.6  0.8         08 (1)   140  100.0               140       1000
. Mejora Instit
A)Consultoria       05   30   35   03   1.0  1.3  01   06   07   0.2  0.7  09   0.1  0.8  0.9                                              0.7 140.0  31  1033   3.8         108.6
B) Capacitacion     2 5       2 5  09          09  0.9         0.9   03        0.3  0.2        0.2  0.2         0.2  0.1        0.1 (1)    2.6 104.0               2.6       104.0
C) Adq Equipos      50  110  160   04          04   03         0.3   10  18  2.8          0.1  0.1  0.2  0.4  0.6  0.8  1.5  23            27   54.0  3.8  34.5  6.5 (2)   40.6        0
TOTAL MEJ INSTIT    80  14 0 22 0   16  10  26  13  0.6  19   15  25  4.0  0.3  09   12  0.4  04   0.8  0.9  15  24                        6.0  75.0  6.9  493 12.9           58 6
. SalariosUelect    16         16  04          0.4  09         09   09          0.9  0.4        04   03         0.3  02          0.2       3.1  193.8               3.1       193.8
Imprevistos              1 0  1.0                                                   0.1  0.2  0.3  0.1  0.1   02                          0.2  20 0  03  30.0  0.5           50 0
23 6 15.0 38.6   5 8  1 0  68  65  06  71  4 2  25  67  2 5  1.1  3.6  2.4  0.5  29   19  1.5  3.4                     23.3  98.7  72  48.0 30.5           79.0
FUENTE DEPTO DE MODERNIZACION-CON BASE EN UTILIZACION DE RECURSOS CUENTA ESPECIAL
(1) Datos estimados                                                                                                                                                                 p  z
(2) NO incluye compromisos contractuales con I B M de Colombia y SAMSUNG LTDA.                                                                                                      (D
FMRA Sept.20/94                                                                                                                                                                     QC)



ANNEX C 4
_    CAIA -\CRARIA                              50                             Page 2 of 2
PROGRAMACION PARA LA EJECUCION CREDITO 2909-CO *
Millones de Do6lares
COMPROMETIDO (PENDIENTE          POR COMPROMETER
EROGACION A CONTRATISTAS)
NO.             PROGRAMA                       35%        65%               35%       65%
CAJA       B.M.    TOTAL    CAJA       B.M.    TOTAL
1.    REESTRUCTURACION RED DE OFS.(COCs
1.1    Licitaci6n Internacional 01/92               0.8      1.1       1.9
1.2    Licitaci6n Nal. Estabilizadores              0.1      0.2       0.3
1.3    UPSs/Plantas/Otras Ftes.Energ.                                  .        0.2       0.3       0.5
1.4    Escuela Bancaria
2.    SOLUCION ESTRAT.DE SISTEMAS GRUPO
2.1    Contrato I.B.M. 40 Oficinas                  0.7       1.3      2.0
2.2    Mantenimiento Contr. 40 Ofs.                 0.5       0.9      1.4
2.3    Ampliaci6n Soluci6n.Bancaria                                              0.3      0.4       0.7
2.4    Ampliaci6n Sol.Rehumanos+Pais                                            0.1       0.3       0.4
2.5    Adecuacion Sol.Deptal.Tarjetas                                            0.1      0.3       0.4
2.6    Compra Maq.Magnetizadoras Canje              0.0      0.1       0.1
3.    SOLUCION ESTR.SIST.GRUPO II                                               0.6       0.8       1.4
4.    ESTRATEGIA DE COMUNICACIONES                                              1.4       2.6       4.0
5.    AMPLIACION COBERTURA SAFE
5.1    Adecuaci6n Centro de Computo                                             0.2       0.5       0.7
5.2    Software y Hardware Agencias                                             0.1       0.3       0.4
6.    ASESORIAS
6.1    Contratos en curso
6.2    Otros Contratos por celebrar
7.    CONSTRUCCIONES                                                            1.0                1.0
8.    SALARIOS UNIDAD EJECUTORA                                                 0.3                0.3
9.   IMPREVISTOS                                   0.0       0.1      0.1                 0.1      0.1
10.   CAPACITACION
TOTALES                                          2.1       3.7      5.8       4.3       5.6      9.9
TOTAL EJECUTADO                              31.0
COMPROMETIDO                                  5.8
POR COMPROMETER                               9.9
EJECUCION TOTAL PROYECTADA                   46.7
Estimada a noviembre/93



IBRD 26153
78                                                     74                                                      CUBA
JAMAICA  HAITI   DOMINICAN REP
HONDURAS
COLOMBIA                                                                                                         . NICARAGUA   ,
l12                                                                                                       , _       12'- -CR locsAi,.  , i     V E N F Z U E, A Z  .?
RICA;                VENEZUELA/         t
Rioh.cho                                   SAN ANAMA                                 FR GUIANA
0                         S~~~~~~~~~AJTE DE BOGOTA,                 EGIN
Sonra Morto                            /                                     COLOMBIA  >                  Y
BoErronquillo S        ' ^ ;z;:^]           rECUADOR)\   t
Cortogeno     :                                                                                                        R A Z I L
S   , 7            thli~VedUpor j                                                  'BRALZI 
)                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~PERU*'L ,
./,,   ,   . j                                             /  BOLIVIA  1.
S,Vce1HIO
S CeilO .  '  t_                                                   tr > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAR-AGtAY
PANAMA                         .REonter,n                                                                                                          - \NA A  /
S0     T:rt  he boundaries, colors, denominotions
*  .  .   ., - , s  L -   \                            and any other information shown on
\M4 *. I 9-.-   X   **  tthis map do not imply, on the part of
8-  jt S ;' *- ' ;.                                                                                                           TheSWrl  d Rank Grup ony judgment
S.                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on the legal status of any territory, or
fV  -  ,                             +    . .   i                                                 any endorsement or acceptance of
'  Buco,os,o                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~such boundaories.
r       Buc.r
)   ,, . :.   . ,  - '  ,  .  -    '    ,,  G       gT,nlose-d'Guon'o'
ELEVATION ABOVE 1000 METERS                  Villov/cencio                                                          Pu       zo
NATIONA , CAPITA
- EC   U A   DO  DPRTMN CAPITALS                       P>                             E   R>       U
>                                                       '. j'. '-0    50   100   150   200-25
-0.~~h E C  U                                                      A D  R 
ELEVATION ABOVE 10(00 METERS                          t                    >       b\
it NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                            8,      /
SD     DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                  p      E     R      Ui
RIVERS                                                                                   /         I
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                             /           /
-4B                                                                                                                                                           4-Lehc4
AUGUST 1994









1 Md A; 1 I1 M ;
Report No:           14690
Type: !C!R



