Page  1
October 7, 1988
Dr. Carlos Villamil Chaux
General Manager
Caja de Credito Agrario,
 Industrial y Minero
Carrera Octava No. 15-43
Bogota, Colombia
Re:
Loan No. 2909-CO
Caja Agraria Institutional Development Project
Procurement Procedures
Dear Sirs:
I refer to the Loan Agreement dated May 13, 1988, for the above-referenced Loan 
between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the 
Caja de Credito Agrario Industrial y Minero (the Borrower).
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to amend said agreement to 
ease the procurement process of small acquisitions, as requested in your letter of 
September 5, 1988.
Accordingly, Schedule 4, Part B, to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
1.
The current paragraph under Part B is designated as paragraph 1.
 
2.
The following paragraph, number 2, is added, also under Part B:
 
"Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, 
up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000, may be awarded 
following 
evaluation and comparison of quotations furnished by at least 
three suppliers.  Contracts 
shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated quotation."
 
The foregoing amendment, upon confirmation by the Borrower, will be effective as 
of September 14, 1988, date on which the Loan Agreement was declared effective.
Please confirm your agreement to the above by signing and dating the form of 
confirmation below and returning it to us.
Because of his interest on this matter, we are sending copy of this letter to 
the Representative of the Guarantor Dr. Luis Fernando Alarcon Mantilla, Minister of 
Finance and Public Credit.
Sincerely yours,
International Bank for Reconstruction
   and Development
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Country Director
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
Caja de Credito Agrario Industrial
Page  2
By /s/ Carlos Villamil Chaux
Authorized Representative
Date
cc:
Dr. Luis Fernando Alarcon Mantilla
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
