Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25047
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-28308)
ON A
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 0.8 MILLION (US$1.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
MAURITIUS
FOR A
BIODIVERSITY RESTORATION PROJECT
02/03/2003
Envlronment and Social Development Unit /AFC08
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Mauritius Rupee (Mau. Rs.)
Mau. Rs 17.8 (February 1995) = US$ I
US$ I = Mau. Rs 30.3 (April 2002)
FISCAL YEAR
July I  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AHRIM:       Association of Hotels and Restaurants of Mauritius Island
AQ:          Anse Quitor Nature Reserve
CBO:         Community-Based Organisations
GEF:         Global Environment Facility
GoM:         Govenmment of Mauritius
GMO:         Grande Montagne Nature Reserve
IAA:         Ile Aux Aigrettes
ICR:         Implementation Completion Report
IPGRI:       International Plant Genetic Resources Institute
IUCN:        International Union for the Conservation of Nature
MoU:         Memorandum of Understanding
HSBC:        Hong Kong and Shangai Banking Corporation Limited
MSP:         Medium Size Project
MWF:         Mauritius Wildlife Foundation
NEAP:        National Environmental Action Plan
NHT:         National Heritage Trust
NGOs:        Non-governmental Organizations
NPCS:        National Parks and Conservation Service
QAG:         Quality Assurance Group
RGB Kew:     Royal Botanical Gardens kew
SGP:         Small Grants Program
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Hafez M. H. Ghanem
Sector Manager/Director:  Riciard G. Scobey
Task Team LeaderTask Manager    Michel Simeon



MAURITIUS
BIODIVERSITY RESTORATION
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             13
6. Sustainability                                                                 14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  16
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                 17
9. Partner Comments                                                               17
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             27
MAP NO. IBRD 26793






Project ID: P036030                                      Project Name: BIODIVERSITY RESTORA
Team Leader: Michel Simeon                              I TL Unit: AFTES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: February 3, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: BIODIVERSITY RESTORA                          L/C/TFNumber: TF-28308
Country/Department: MAURITIUS                                          Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
(48%); Central govenmment administration (25%);
Other social services (25%); Forestry (2%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   05/2811993                            Effective: 02/21/1996         02/21/1996
Appraisal:  01/16/1995                               MTR: 07/04/1999           07/04/1999
Approval:  11/09/1995                             Closing:  12/31/2001         12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementingAgency:  GOVT OF MAURITIUS/MAURITIUS MARINE AUTHORITY (MMA); DIR
OF SHIPPING (MDA)
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Hafez M. H. Ghanem                       Andrew P. Rogerson
Sector Manager:      Richard G. Scobey                        Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Team Leader at ICR:  Michel Simeon                            Aubert Zohore
ICR Primary Author:  J. Mauremotoo; M. Simeon
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S-Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HfU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any l7me: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project intends to help GOM to meet some of its outstanding global obligations,
identified in domestic environmental strategies and plans, and specified under the Biodiversity



Convention, for which full domestic funding is not forthcoming. Specifically, it would (i) protect
critically endangered biodiversity of international importance by restoring degraded small island
habitats and propagating and reintroducing endemic species to these habitats; and (ii) strengthen
capacity for the management and monitoring of biodiversity restoration.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project were never formally revised. However, there were some
project objectives that could not have been carried out as planned. In Rodrigues it was not
possible to undertake restoration work in the Mourouk valley as, unlike Anse Quitor and Grande
Montagne it had not been declared a nature reserve. In addition the work in Anse Quitor was
hampered by the plans (only formally rescinded in July 2001) to extend the runway of Plaine
Corail Airport into the nature reserve.
3.3 Original Components:
The project total cost was estimated at US$1.6 million and consisted of four components:
* A survey for:
(a)   The identification of original habitat/community types for determining species
recovery and habitat restoration targets at the three sites, Rodrigues Island, Ile aux
Aigrettes and Round Island, and
(b)   The eradication of control of undesired exotic species (US$1 10,000).
* Investment in required infrastructure (nurseries, buildings) for the ex-situ propagation and
cultivation of threatened plants (US$ 125,000);
* Supplies and equipment for propagation, replanting and reseeding of endemic plants, and
reintroduction of endemic animals from captive-bred populations (UJS$685,000); and
* Technical assistance to strengthen the governmental and non-governmental institutions
involved, based on a skills audit and training needs analyses (US$670,000). This would
develop:
(a)   Skills in project planning administration
(b)   Horticultural expertise and facilities to ensure the viability of support propagation
services and the long term of plant populations,
(c)   Expertise in applied conservation biology including the genetic/demographic
management of endangered plant populations, and
(d)   Skills in habitat monitoring.
For implementation purpose, the above was structured as follows:
i. Rodrigues Forest restoration                    $401,000
ii. Round Island restoration                        $017,000
-2-



iii. Ile aux Aigrettes restoration                  $175,000
iv. Institutional strengthening and capacity building  $606,000
3.4 Revised Components:
Components                                   Cost                    Rating
Rodrigues Forest restoration                 $251,600.00             S
Infrastructure Improvement                   $014,300.00             HS
Supplies and Equipment                       $351,000.00             S
Technical assistance                        $475,400.00              S
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entiy was satisfactory, in spite of a few shortcomings:
* Institutional problems and the difficulties of logistics to work on Round Island were
underestimated at the time of preparation and appraisal.
* Budget categories were too general in the initial formulation of the document and therefore
cost estimates were not accurate. The consultant who wrote the grant proposal did not use
local sources to estimate cost.
The situation on Ile aux Aigrettes allowed work to proceed relatively smoothly with MWF
being granted a long-term lease (due to end in 2034) to manage the island for ecological
restoration. Round Island has been managed as a joint undertaking between the Government of
Mauritius (through its National Parks and Conservation Service - NPCS) and MWF.
Collaboration has been generally good but occasionally there have been problems such as access
toihelicopter facilities being limited by complex procedures. The work in Rodrigues is in theory
managed jointly by MWF and the Rodrigues Forestry Service. In practice almost all the work was
done by MWF and volunteers.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
lIe aux Aigrettes
The last significant remnant of Mauritian coastal ebony forest is now well on its way to
restoration with 90% of the island having been cleared of alien weeds and planted where
necessary. A secure funding base for the sustainable financing of the He aux Aigrettes restoration
programme has been established.
Round Island
Weed control and native planting techniques and capacity have been developed that will
allow large-scale restoration to proceed. This is now being implemented as a World Bank/GEF
funded medium size project.
3 -



Rodrigues
All except one of a target list of 54 species have been successfully propagated. Many of
these species have been brought back from the brink of extinction. Ninety per cent of the reserve
area of Grande Montagne and about over half the area of Anse Quitor nature reserve have been
weeded of alien plants and planted with natives.
Institutional strengthening and capacity building
The project has contributed significantly to a large increase of the level of public
awareness - both nationally and internationally - about biodiversity value and conservation efforts
in Mauritius and Rodrigues and the efforts being made for its conservation. This has resulted in a
sharp increase in the number of Mauritian volunteers to carry out conservation work, in addition
to the historically steady flow of international volunteers. Careful monitoring of restoration work
and experimental trials have resulted in improved knowledge in restoration techniques. Mauritian
conservation capacity has vastly increased in both the Governmental and non-governmental
sectors.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Ile aux Aigrettes
Construction of a nursery capable of growing sufficient numbers of native plants to speed
up the restoration of Ile aux Aigrettes. Construction of the Ile aux Aigrettes nursery was
successfully completed in 1997 and the first large scale plant production was ready for the 1998
planting season. The nursery has consistently functioned well with low plant mortality and no
intractable pest or disease problems. In most cases plant production has been sufficient for annual
planting requirements. Nearly 55,000 plants of 55 species have been produced during the project
period.
Complete restoration of the islet. Weeding of all weed-infested areas and replanting as
necessary with native species. Although never formally revised it became clear in late 1999 that
this objective would not be met by the end of the project. However, about 90 % of the island has
been weeded and planted to date and it is confidently projected that the restoration weeding and
planting will be completed in 2003. Areas weeded in 1997 were high but that year labour
donations from Sugar Estates were withdrawn. This labour was replaced by a permanent Ile aux
Aigrettes labour force but this was insufficient for the amount of weeding work required. Only
from 2000 was enough labour hired to replace the loss of donated labour. From 2000 areas
weeded increased reaching with 8.5 ha. in 2001.
Development of a monitoring scheme to assess the success of the Ile aux Aigrettes
restoration programme. A reliable monitoring scheme was supposed to have been developed
early in the restoration programme. However, the scheme initially developed was not robust and
was replaced by a more thorough survey in 1999. A repeat vegetation survey conducted in 2001
-4 -



indicated a decrease in weed levels, e.g. Leucaena leucocephala, possibly the island's most
invasive weed species, decreased in cover by 50% between 1999 and 2001. In the meantime,
planted pioneers such as Dodonaea viscosa and Hibiscus tiliaceous increased in height by 100 cm
and 70 cm respectively in the year immediately following planting.
Eradication of all exotics within the project period. This aim was never realistic and is almost
certainly never to be achieved for all plant species on He aux Aigrettes. However, the levels of
exotic plants have been considerably reduced on the island and many species are now at densities
that do not pose substantial problems for native plants as long as regular weed management is
continued. An effort to eradicate Indian house shrews from the island in 1999 was unsuccessful.
However, the experience enhanced knowledge of the requirements for a future successful
eradication. In 1999 the world's first successful shrew eradication was carried out on Ile de la
Passe, one of the smaller islets in the Mahebourg Bay.
Research to increase the efficiency of species propagation. Huge increases in knowledge on
the propagation of native plants have been achieved during the project. These have led to an
increase in the Ile aux Aigrettes nursery production from 7,000 plants of 12 species in 1998 -
16,500 individuals of 35 species in 2001.
Research to optimize planting performance. Initially it was unclear which species mix and
planting densities would produce the fastest native regeneration and best suppression of weeds.
Experimental plantings resulted in much higher than expected survival rates (up- to 90% for some
species) and so planting densities could be lowered as the project proceeded. It was unknown
which species would be the most effective pioneers in the Ile aux Aigrettes environment. Some
that were expected to perform well (e.g. Ehretia petiolaris and Sophora tomentosa) did not while
others (e.g. Dodonaea viscosa and Hibiscus tiliaceous) proved extremely effective.
Recovery for endangered species of plants. Of the 55 plant species propagated on Ile aux
Aigrettes from 1997-2001 28 are endangered according to IUCN criteria. Due to the restoration
programme on Ile aux Aigrettes five of these species are well on the way to being down-listed
(over 1,000 plants produced and successfully planted) and over 100 individuals have been
produced and planted of a further six of these species.
Development of ecotourism. In 1997 MWF launched its ecotourism programme. A visitor's
center was built on Ile aux Aigrettes with funds donated by the Japan World Exposition
Commemorative Fund and the island opened to visitors for paid guided tours. White Sand Tours,
a main Tour Operator in Mauritius, offered to act as our general sales agent until we were ready
to operate more independently. Progressively new trails have been opened, better information
provided, new guides recruited, a gift shop opened on the island, and an ecotourism strategy and
marketing plan developed which are now being implemented. Eco-Tours are now available on a
daily basis. Guides offer insight into the unique plant and animal life of this islet and a firsthand
glimpse at the conservation work. They identify 'a range of endangered plants and explain the
significance of these species to Mauritius' biodiversity. Ile aux Aigrettes is the only place in the
world where visitors can see the unique and very rare Mauritian Pink Pigeon completely in the
wild. Giant Aldabran Tortoises can also be seen roaming free on the islet. Recently, the unique
-5 -



Round Island Telfair's skink, and once an inhabitant of Ile aux Aigrettes, was re-introduced in
semi-captivity and may now be seen by visitors. The tour is being developed on the strictest
principles of ecotourism, the purpose being to inform the public about our conservation work and
to finance MWF on a sustainable basis in the future. 1998 was the first full year of operation with
800 visitors. This progressed to 1200 in 1999, 1650 in 2000 and 3960 in 2001. MWF are
planning to level off at about 25 000 to 30 000 within the next 4 to 5 years.
Round Island
Monitoring changes in plant communities. The monitoring regime of permanent quadrats
established in 1975 were monitored through the GEF project The dominant native palm Latania
loddigesii is regenerating well as is Pandanus vandermeerschii and the bottle palm Hyphorbe
lagenicaulis is beginning to show signs of recruitment. Total vegetation cover continues to
increase but this is dominated by introduced herbaceous weeds. However, these weeds are
protecting the newly forming soil and can provide favorable micro-conditions for the
establishment of native woody species. This monitoring regime will be expanded under the World
Bank GEF MSP Restoration of Round Island project in order to obtain a more detailed picture of
the changes in plant communities as the restoration work proceeds.
Monitoring changes in vertebrate communities. Regular monitoring trips were carried out but
it became increasingly obvious that with the changes in vegetation structure on the island the
results did not give a true picture of changing numbers on Round Island. With the longer-term
presence on Round Island facilitated by the World Bank GEF MSP, it is now possible to establish
a more robust monitoring scheme for reptiles. Intensive ringing studies of the Round Island race
of the herald petrel continued during the project. No major changes were noted. Under the new
Round Island project these studies are being expanded as an Mphil/PhD project for Vikash
Tatayah, a MWF staff member.
Control of individual weeds. The attempts to eradicate Desmanthus virgatus begun in 1982,
were stopped in 1997 when it was decided that eradication of the plant was not feasible as
management trips too short and infrequent. In addition the plant itself was deemed not to be as
great a risk to the ecology of Round Island as had been previously thought. Another new weed,
the grass Heteropogon contortus was controlled with a view to eradication but this aim has not
yet been achieved.
Trials of reseeding areas with native plants. Approximately 140,000 seeds of 16 species were
sown during the project. Success rate was almost zero. This was due to the overwhelming
domination of weed seeds in the seedbank and because any germinating native seedlings could not
be given individual management at this critical stage.
Trials of replanting areas with native seedlings. Approximately 5,500 plants of 17 species
were planted on Round Island. Mortality rates were very high varying between 75 % and 100 %.
This depended on species and the weather conditions around the time of planting as no after-care
could be provided due to the short duration of management trips. These trials provided useful
information about which species are the most suitable pioneers to use for the long-term
re-establishment of the Round Island hardwood forest. Native seedlings found on the island were
-6 -



also transplanted into suitable locations. The success of these transplants varied with the factors
outlined above and once again provided useful information on which species could be used in this
way to headstart the restoration process in degraded areas.
Formation of soil by construction and maintenance of soil traps. Soil traps are lines of rocks
running parallel to the slope in such a way as to catch and accumulate eroding rock in order to
speed up soil formation. They have been found to be very effective on Round Island. Numerous
soil traps were constructed and maintained on Round Island management trips. The success of
these traps in building soil was not quantified but they were generally perceived to be effective.
Formulation of a management plan. The objective of producing a management plan for Round
Island has been met only in part (there is a draft management plan). This is due to the fact that it
took longer than expected to develop the techniques that are now applied on the on-going
follow-up project. The management plan will be reviewed, adjusted and formalized in due course
under that project.
Rodrigues
The restoration of Cascade Mourouk. No restoration work was carried out in this location as
it was not declared a nature reserve during the project period. This change was never translated
into a formal project revision.
Construction of a nursery capable of growing sufficient numbers of native plants for the
restoration of GMO and AQ Nature Reserves. Construction of the Rodrigues nursery was
completed in 1997 and the first large scale plant production was ready for the 1998 planting
season. The nursery has consistently functioned well and in most cases plant production has been
sufficient for annual planting requirements. A total of 85,000 plants of 53 species have been
produced during the project period.
Restoration of Grande Montagne nature reserve i.e. weeding of all weed-infested areas and
replanting areas weeded with native species. Work on Grande Montagne has progressed steadily
with about 2 ha. weeded and planted each year from 1988. About 90 % of the Grande Montagne
reserve area of 10 ha. has been weeded and planted to date. It is confidently projected that the
restoration of the reserve area will be completed in 2003.
Restoration of Anse Quitor nature reserve i.e. weeding of all weed-infested areas and
replanting areas weeded with native species. The restoration programme in Anse Quitor has been
challenging. Droughts hit the area in 1999 and 2000 resulting in a lack of appropriate weather for
planting and poor survival (sometime 100 % mortality) of those plants that were planted. From
2000 there was a proposal to extend the runway of Plaine Corail airport into Anse Quitor nature
reserve and major planting was postponed pending a ftrm decision. In July 2001 it was decided to
route the runway away from the reserve and major planting was resumed. In spite of difficulties
50 % of the reserve area has been weeded and planted to date.
Establishment of native habitat for remaining Rodriguan endemic vertebrates. Habitat is
being established and native birds are starting to use the growing native forest at Grande



Montagne as nesting habitat. However, it will take several more years of native tree growth until
the habitat optimal for native vertebrates.
Development of a monitoring scheme to assess the success of the Rodrigues restoration
programme. A reliable monitoring scheme was supposed to have been developed early in the
restoration programme. However, the scheme initially developed was not robust and was
replaced by a more thorough survey in 2000. Monitoring indicates that native species can achieve
reasonable rates of growth with several species of relatively fast growing natives such as
Pittosporum balfouriana, Gastonia rodriguesiana and Dracaena reflexa putting on between 70
and 90 cm of growth in the year immediately following planting in Grande Montagne. Due to the
dry conditions pioneers grew slower in Anse Quitor with increases in height of about 40 cm per
year immediately following planting for the faster growing species such as Thespesia populnea
and Dodonaea viscosa.
Research to increase the efficiency of species propagation. Huge increases in knowledge on
the propagation of native plants have been achieved during the project. These have lead to an
increase in the Rodrigues nursery production levels from 2,200 plants of 14 species in 1998 to a
peak of 39,500 individuals of 27 species in 2000.
Research to optimize planting performance. Initially it was unclear which species mix and
planting densities would produce the fastest native regeneration and best suppression of weeds.
Experimental plantings resulted in much higher than expected survival rates (up to 90% for some
species) in the relatively cool and humid Grande Montagne although survivorship was much more
variable in the warmer and drier Anse Quitor (between 90% and 20% depending on species and
the duration of rainy periods after planting). Nevertheless planting densities could be lowered in
most instances as the project proceeded. It was unknown which species would be the most
effective pioneers in the two very different locations. A large number of species including those
mentioned above proved effective as pioneers in the Grande Montagne environment while a
smaller number were effective in Anse Quitor (e.g. Dodonaea viscosa and Thespesia populnea).
Recovery for endangered species of plants. Of the 53 plant species propagated in the
Rodrigues nursery from 1998-2001, 39 are endangered according to IUCN criteria. A total of
69,000 individuals of these species were propagated during the project period. Due to the
restoration programme in Rodrigues thirteen of these species are well on the way to being
downlisted (over 1,000 plants produced and successfully planted) and over 100 individuals have
been produced and planted of a further nine of these species. Of a target list for propagation of
45 endemic species 44 have been successfully propagated during the project period.
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
National and International Public Awareness Benefits
The sub-projects funded under the GEF grant have been used to increase awareness about
the biodiversity value of Mauritius and Rodrigues and the efforts being made for its conservation.
An average of one article a month has appeared in the Mauritian media about one or more of the
three sub-projects. The project has also been featured regularly on Mauritian television news and
-8 -



documentary slots and on the Mauritius College of the Air. The project has also been featured
several times in intemational documentaries. In addition scientific fmdings of the project have
been featured in peer-reviewed journals and in conference proceedings and several scientific
works are in preparation.
The work in Rodrigues has been used by the MWF Community Educator (project
established in 1998) as material for presentation to Rodriguan children and community groups and
for field excursions allowing direct experience of the process of ecological restoration. Project
work has also been used as material for the Mauritian NPCS educator.
Increasing efficiency in ecosystem restoration techniques
Practical restoration work has proceeded alongside experimental trials and careful
monitoring throughout the project. Training of project personnel has also continued throughout
the project. These processes have resulted in an increasing efficiency in restoration techniques as
the project has proceeded. Specific measures that have lead to increasing efficiency in restoration
include the use of physical on-site grid markers for the mapping of restoration areas on Ile aux
Aigrettes and Rodrigues. These have allowed the precise timing of restoration operations that has
helped planning, burnig of weeded biomass that has reduced reinfestation of weeds from under
woodpiles, the judicious use of herbicides and mulching based on the results of trials and the
choice of pioneer species to use for planting of areas cleared of weeds.
The value of volunteer participation
Conservation work in Mauritius over the last twenty years has made very effective use of
international volunteers. For most of this time only a few Mauritian have volunteered to work in
conservation. In the course of the Biodiversity Restoration Project the numbers of Mauritian and
Rodriguan volunteers has expanded hugely. In Rodrigues 25 volunteers (17 from Rodrigues and
8 from overseas) have participated full time in the restoration project. In addition 10 community
groups, with an estimated average of 10 people per group, have participated in the restoration. On
Iie aux Aigrettes 10 full time volunteers (6 Mauritians and 4 expatriates) and 5 community
groups, also with an estimated average of 10 people per group, have worked on the restoration
project. Three of these groups have worked for a day each month for the first six months. After
this period the work has been done as and when required. In addition to the above people and
groups who have contributed substantially to the restoration projects there have also been groups
and individuals who have worked from time to time on the restoration projects on Ile aux
Aigrettes and Rodrigues. These efforts have been very useful as awareness-raising exercises.
No major volunteer efforts were carried out on Round Island during the project as stays
were for short periods only and transport was limited.
Increasing Maurifian expertise in conservation
During the course of the GEF project MWF grew from being a small, largely
fauna-focussed, expatriate-dominated NGO to being a large NGO focussing on whole ecosystems
-9-



and with the majority of its staff (particularly in its flora programmes) being Mauritian. Training
opportunities detailed in 4.5 have increased the capacity of Mauritian nationals in areas such as
quantitative ecology, plant propagation, conservation of plant genetic resources and weed
management Developments within MWF have been paralleled by increases in the capacity of
Government agencies to carry out conservation of native biodiversity. The Rodrigues Forestry
Service is now mainly planting native species. The Mauritius Forestry Service has established a
Biodiversity Unit to carry out conservation in areas not currently conserved by MWF and the
NPCS. The NPCS have expanded the area they are managing for conservation on the Mauritian
mainland and have recruited additional staff.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial Rate of return Not Applicable.
Financial sustainability. The use of Ile aux Aigrettes as an ecotourism destination is one of the
main avenues for sustainable funding of ecological restoration work on lie aux Aigrettes and
possibly on Round Island (which may well be too fragile to ever accept visitors on a large scale).
The Ile aux Aigrettes ecotour has been developed throughout the project period. The tour
attracted 3,960 visitors in 2001 (above the estimate made in 2000 of 2,500 visitors). In 2002 it is
estimated that 9,000 visitors will come to the island. This will cover all ecotour costs. In 2003
ecotour income is projected to fund the management of lie aux Aigrettes and in 2004 it is
projected to cover the maintenance of both lie aux Aigrettes and Round Island.



Leveraging of other funds. The project has helped to attract the following project funds
Project                                         Donor                          Value (US)
lie aux Aigrettes                              _
Building of the visitors centre                  Japan World Expo Fund           67,000
Building of bunkhouse to house resident project personnel J&B circle              7,000
Development of ecotourism facilities              Mauritian National Environment  48,300
Fund
Building of display and release aviaries         British High Commission and      7,670
Ambassade de France
Production of education and awareness-raising    HSBC Mauritius                   4,000
publications
Management of pink pigeons on LAA                Durrell Wildlife Conservation   64,500
Trust
Round Island
Restoration of Round Island                       World Bank/GEF                 750,000
Rodrigues
Rodrigues community education project            Philadelphia Zoo                49,000
Sustainable use of Rodriguan Endemic Plants      UNDP/GEF SGP                    50,000
Rodriguan conservation programme 2001             UK trusts                      18,600
Coastal restoration project                      European Union                   4,000
Whitley Award for lnternational Nature Conservation  Whitley-Laing Foundation    33,000
General projects
An information system for biodiversity and conservation  Darwin Initiative - UK  200,000
monitoring in Mauritius
Stiff exchange programme between MWF and the      Le Fondation de France          8,000
Conservatoire Botanique National de Mascarin  _
The pilot Mauritius rare plant species recovery project  Royal Botanical Gardens Kew -  8,600
UK
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has had a strong impact on the institutional capacity of the implementing NGO
(MWF). It also contributed to the training of staff from the Forestry Department and from the
National Parcs Conservation Service. Details are given below.
Also, using Ile aux Aigrettes and Round Island as models of successful islets management
the Government of Mauritius through the Ministry of Environment launched an Islets Taskforce
to investigate the state of the islets of Mauritius and to propose remedies for those judged to be
in need of improved management.



Institutional and Personal Capacity Development
Within MWF 20 persons (18 Mauritian and 2 expatriates) have been employed directly on
the project Approximately 50 other MWF staff have been involved with the project from time to
time. In addition another 50 people from other Mauritian organizations have worked directly on
the project. All of these have benefited from on the job training.
Eshan Dulloo, who as Plant Conservation Manager for MWF from 1996 to the end of
1998, was responsible for the management of the GEF project moved to IPGRI as Germplasm
Conservation Scientist. Eshan Dulloo also gained his PhD at the end of 1998.
Shadila Venkatasamy, MWF Ile aux Aigrettes horticulturalist from 1998 - 2000 is
currently studying for an MPhilUPhD on the genetics of Mauritian ebony at the University of
Mauritius.
Ashok Khadun, Ile aux Aigrettes restoration coordinator is studying for an MPhilUPhD on
the restoration of Ile aux Aigrettes at the University of Mauritius.
Ten undergraduates from the University of Mauritius have completed their BSc project on
topics related to the GEF project.
Specific training courses funded as part of the project are listed below:
Course                                         Beneficiaries
Placement in New Zealand to study islet restoration  Eshan Dulloo (MWF)
work
Placement in RBG Kew to gain hands on propagation  Shadila Venkatasamy (MWF)
experience
Plant propagation course in Mauritius and Rodrigues  MWF, NPCS & Forestry staff
Other training courses catalyzed by the project
Course                   Funder             Beneficiaries
Biodiversity training    UNDP/GEF           University of Mauritius students,
courses - 1996, 98 & 99                     staff of relevant NGOs, CBOs and
Government agencies
Biodiversity training course UNDP/GEF SGP   As above
- 2001
Kew Conservation Course  Mauritian          Richard Payendee (then of
Government         Forestry)
Horticulture training from  RBG Kew         MWF, NPCS & Forestry staff
RBG Kew
-12 -



Communities In Rodrigues and Mauritdus
Details of the numbers of community groups that have gained capacity through the GEF
project in Rodrigues and Ile aux Aigrettes are outlined above. In addition 230 families are
participating in the UNDP/GEF Sustainable use of Rodriguan Endemic Plants project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
There were unanticipated difficulties in finding appropriate times for planting for Anse
Quitor because of the sporadic rainfall throughout the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Coordination between MOT and Government of Mauritius institutions
* The proposed extension of Plaine Corail Airport made planning of work for Anse Quitor very
difficult
* The sporadic cooperation of the Rodrigues Forestry Service made planning very difficult,
slowing down project implementation.
* Complex procedures and lack of coordination meant that Round Island trips were often
difficult to plan and they did not always take place at the most appropriate time.
* The need to pay for food for GoM staff on Round Island expedition has lead to difficulties in
financing operations.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A MoU was signed with the Ministry of Agriculture but not with the Ministry for
Rodrigues who are responsible for the Rodrigues Forestry Department. This lack of agreement
made it difficult to plan operations in Rodrigues.
The MWF Plant Conservation Manager, responsible for the technical management of the
project from 1996-1999 was also studying for a PhD and this slowed down the pace of
restoration work during this period. The recruitment of a new Plant Conservation Manager at the
beginning of 1999 resulted in increased project productivity.
Budget categories were too general in the initial document and therefore cost estimates
were not accurate. This created strat-up difficulties.
Disbursement procedures were not well understood by MWF staff for much of the project
but these have now been clarified and capacity has been built within the organization so that such
procedures will be well understood in the future.
Interpretation of budget categories by the World Bank changed during implementation,
which caused some confusion and delays in disbursement.
- 13 -



5.4 Costs and financing:
The cost of working on Round island had been under-estimated. A solution was found
through Government contributions to helicopter trips, but as stated above this entrailed complex
procedures.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Ile aux A igrettes
The last significant remnant of Mauritian coastal ebony forest is now well on its way to
restoration with 90% of the island having been cleared of alien weeds and planted as necessary.
The site will be self-sustainable through eco-tourism. Ile aux Aigrettes is the only place in the
world where visitors can see the unique and very rare Mauritian Pink Pigeon completely in the
wild and the unique Round Island Telfair's skink, once an inhabitant of Ile aux Aigrettes, was
re-introduced in semi-captivity. 1998 was the first full year of operation with 800 visitors. This
progressed to 1200 in 1999, 1650 in 2000 and 3960 in 2001, with plans to level off at about 25
000 to 30 000 within the next 4 to 5 years. Conservation and eco-tourism activities are to be
extended to several other islets in the same area, as part of the implementation of Government's
Islets Action Plan, and this new development will potentially improve further the long-terrn
viability of Ile aux Aigrettes.
Round Island
Weed control and native planting techniques have been developed that will allow
large-scale restoration to proceed. This is now being implemented as a World Bank/GEF funded
medium size project. After considerable effort and indeed solidarity between the diverse groups
involved in the project, a field station has been successfully built on the Southern Plateau of the
island, and the process of restoring the native vegetation of the island has been intensified. A new
nursery has been constructed in one of the gullies. This will act as a holding area for plants being
brought over from Ile Aux Aigrettes, before they are planted out. Cuttings and seedlings are also
being cultivated in there, and in the future seed trials will be carried out. Approximately 100,000
litres of water have been collected in 2002 for use around the island, and 1750 plants of mixed
species have been planted in two restoration areas. Without these water collection systems,
restoration of the island at this early stage would not be possible.
Rodrigues
The project has been very successful in developing the proper nursery techniques for all
but one of a target list of 54 critically endangered endemic plant species that have now been
planted in significant numbers and successfully propagated. Many of these species have been
brought back from the brink of extinction. This paves the way for scaling up operations. Almost
the entire reserve area of Grande Montagne and about over half the area of Anse Quitor nature
reserve have been weeded of alien plants and planted with natives, thus re-creating native habitat
- 14 -



for remaining Rodriguan endemic vertebrates.
Lack of water is widely perceived as Rodrigues' major problem. Water-thirsty non-native
trees that have been planted or have invaded water catchment areas have exacerbated the effects
of the lack of rain. A program of rehabilitation of watersheds using native trees would
considerably help the situation. Using slightly modified techniques based on those developed by
the project such a program is highly feasible.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The income from eco-tourism on Ile aux Aigrettes is expected to raise progressively to a
level that will be sufficient to sustain long term costs of Ile aux Aigrettes and Round island.
Government has decided to involve NGOs in the management of some of the islets. In the
Mahebourg area in particular, where Ile aux Aigrettes is located, the National Heritage Trust
(NHT) would be mandated to restore and manage Ile de la Passe, and MWF would take
responsibility for Fouquet, Vacoa, Marianne and Roche aux Oiseaux. In addition, MWF has
developed initial proposals to put under proper management the area under mangrove near Point
d'Esny. The project would restore the mangrove by re-establishing proper circulation of water,
now disrupted by a road. It would also include the construction of a visitor center and landing
facility that would help develop eco-tourism on the islets (including Ile aux Aigrettes) and thus
make restoration and conservation efforts self-sustainable in the medium run.
In the North, as part of the group of islets that includes Round Island, Government has
decided to mandate management of Flat Island and Ile Gabrielle, two popular picnic destinations,
to AHRIM (the association of hotels and restaurants of Mauritius Island). Flat Island (about 250
ha) is the largest of Mauritius Islets, and to restore the ecosystem would require a different
approach than in the case of Round Island or Ile aux Aigrettes, but it would be of great ecological
interest. Because those two islets have great potential for restoration, MWF should get in touch
with AHRIM and explore their potential interest for a partnership. This could potentially become
a second component of the Mahebourg area proposal.
The continuation of project activities in Rodrigues is expected to continue through the
regular program of the Forestry Service as well as through continuing fund raising by MWF,
volunteer participation and community groups. Also, given the decentralization policy of the
country and recent elections to establish a regional Assembly in Rodrigues, new developments can
be expected. Lack of water is widely perceived as Rodrigues' major problem. Water-thirsty
non-native trees that have been planted or have invaded water catchmnent areas have exacerbated
the effects of the lack of rain. A program of rehabilitation of watersheds using native trees would
considerably help the situation. Using slightly modified techniques based on those developed by
MWF during the recently completed Biodiversity Restoration project such a program is highly
feasible.
- 15 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall performance was satisfactory.
The Bank's performance in project identification was satisfactory. Government prepared
a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) in 1990 and was the first country in the world to
ratify the Biodiversity Convention. Government policy for biodiversity management was - and
still is - to extend protection to key habitats and restore some of its most unique ecosystems. The
resulted in the establishment of the Black River Gorges National Park, and in the decision to
reserve two uninhabited offshore islands, lie aux Aigrettes and Round island, for species and
habitat restoration, and to expand on-going conservation work in a number of reserve areas on
the island of Rodrigues, as recommended in the NEAP. The project was designed to support
Government policy and priorities in biodiversity management.
The Bank's performance in project preparation and appraisal was satisfactory, to the
extent that project design was technically sound and the decision to commission an NGO to
implement the project demonstrated its merits. There nevertheless were some shortcomings in the
quality of the project at entry, as explained in section 3.5. Most significant was the
underestimation of the difficulties of the logistics to work on Round island.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in project supervision was satisfactory. Although initial supervision
missions focused more on technical aspects and not enough on project management, this was
eventually corrected.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government's performance in project preparation was satisfactory. Priorities were clearly
established, in line with Government's work on the NEAP. Detailed project preparation was
nevertheless left too much to consultants, resulting in some shortcomings in the quality of the
project at entry, as explained in section 3.5 and in 7.1 above.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. Collaboration has been very
good between Government and the implementing NGO, in particular to help solve the logistics
problems of working on Round Island by developing regular arrangements for using the
helicopters of the Police. On the negative side, complex procedures and local suceptibilities have
- 16-



sometimes made working on the ground more difficult that necessary.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency (MWF) performance was satisfactory. Financial management was
initially too casual, but this was eventually corrected. MWF was very proactive in seeking
additional resources (see 4.4) by establishing a staff position for that purpose. The successful
eco-tourism program developed for Ile aux Aigrettes was not part of the initial project design but
now it paves the way towards financial sustainability.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*   The.logistics of working on small islands is very heavy. This was clearly under-estimated for
Round Island, but also applies to Rodrigues and to a lesser extend to lie aux Aigrettes.
Partnerships are essential to overcome such difficulties.
*   Collaboration with partners, and in particular collaboration between an NGO and public
entities such as Government Departments, benefits from being clearly spelled out and is best
organized through the use of formal memoranda of understanding. Such an MOU would have
been most helpful for example in the case of Rodrigues.
* There is as much to learn from failure than from success, as illustrated by the learning process
at Round Island, where trials and errors have eventually led to a full understanding of how the
island can be restored. This has led to the development of a follow-up project, now on-going.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Ministry of Economy and GEF focal point has liaised with the relevant institutions
and sent the following comments on the Implementation Completion Report:.
*     Round Island Restoration
Page 3 of the report makes reference to the following statement 'occasionally there have been
problems such as access to helicopter facilities being limited by complex procedures'. It is to be
noted that all requests received from MWF to use police helicopter have been processed diligently
and sent to the Commissioner of Police and Prime Minister's Office to obtain permission for using
helicopter as per usual procedures. We are not aware of any flight which has been postponed or
cancelled.
As per the project document, one of the outcome was a management plan for Round Island after
five years of the project (1995-2000). However, we note that up to now only a draft management
plan has been produced.
- 17 -



*      lie aux Aigrettes Restoration Plan
We are satisfied with the progress achieved and comments made in the report
*      Rodrigues Forest Restoration Project
We are awaiting reply from the Rodrigues Regional Assembly.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
No additional information is available.
-18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
11elaux Aigrettes
Construction of a nursery capable of growing  Nursery successfully constructed in
sufficient numbers of native plants to speed up  1997.Consistent production of sufficient plants
the restoration of lle aux Aigrettes.     for lie aux Aigrettes restoration.
Complete restoration of the islet.        Island 90% (23 ha.) restored and restoration
will be completed in 2003.
Development of a monitoring scheme to assess  Monitoring scheme developed and indicating
the success of the lie aux Aigrettes restoration  success. Major weed infestations reduced by
programme.                                50% in two years.
Eradication of all exotics within the project  An unrealistic goal. However the impact of
period.                                   many exotics has been reduced substantially.
Research to increase the efficiency of species  Huge increases in efficiency of plant
propagation.                              propagation resulting in yearly increases in
production.
Research to optimize planting performance.  Planting performance improved allowing better
use of nursery efforts resulting in increased
areas restored each year as project progressed.
Recovery for endangered species of plants.  28 endangered species propagated and 5-11 of
these are likely to be downlisted by the IUCN
once plants propagated on Ile aux Aigrettes
reach maturity.
Round Island
Monitoring changes in plant communities.  Increasing populations of main tree species but
_greater levels of many weeds.
Monitoring of changes in vertebrate       Reptile monitoring not very usefil but can be
communities.                              improved with a long term presence made
possible by the World Bank GEF MSP project.
Seabird populations stable.
Control of individual weeds.              Efforts to eradicate Desmanthus abandoned for
logistical and conservation reasons. Efforts still
being made to eradicate two potentially
destructive weeds.
Trials of reseeding areas with native plants.  Many seeds were sown but success rates were
very low.
Trials of replanting areas with native seedlings.  Success rates greater than above but still very
variable. Trials provided useful information on
species and techniques to use in the new project.
Formation of soil by construction and     No quantitative monitoring but were effective in
mIaintenance of soil traps.               many cases.
Rodrigues
The restoration of Cascade Mourouk.       No restoration work was carried out in this
location as it was not declared a nature reserve
during the project period.
-19 -



Construction of a nursery capable of growing  Nursery successfully constructed in 1997.
sufficient numbers of native plants for the  Consistent production of sufficient plants for
restoration of GMO and AQ Nature Reserves .  Rodrigues restoration.
Restoration of Grande Montagne nature reserve. About 90 % of the 10 ha. reserve has been
weeded and planted.
Restoration of Anse Quitor nature reserve.  About 50 /oo the 10 ha. reserve has been
weeded and planted in spite of drought and
landuse conflicts.
Establishment of native habitat for remaining  Native birds starting to nest in restored areas of
Rodriguan endemic vertebrates.           Grande Montagne.
Development of a monitoring scheme to assess  Reliable monitoring scheme has been developed
the success of the Rodrigues restoration  helping to quantify the success of the restoration
programme.                               work.
Research to increase the efficiency of species  Huge increases in efficiency of plant
propagation.                             propagation resulting in increases in production.
Research to optimize planting performance.  Planting performance improved allowing better
use of nursery efforts resulting in increased
areas restored as project progressed.
Recovery for endangered species of plants.  39 endangered species propagated and 13-22 of
these are likely to be downlisted by the IUCN
once plants propagated in Rodrigues reach
maturity. 44 of 45 endemic plant species
propagated.
Institutional Strengthening and capacity
bullding
National and international public awareness  Frequent national and intemational media
benefits.                                coverage and scientific publications.
Increasing efficiency in ecosystem restoration  Improved practices resulting in greater capacity
techniques.                              for ecological restoration in Mauritius.
The value of volunteer participation.    35 full time volunteers, mostly from Mauritius
and Rodrigues, as well as community groups
have participated in restoration.
Increasing Mauritian expertise in conservation.  Change in focus of MWF towards whole
ecosystems and increased levels of Mauritian
staff. Greater resources for conservation in
Government bodies.
-20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pioect Cost by Component (in US$ miilion equivalent)
. :. :   .  . ........  .  }  .....                     . ...... .. . :... :.  -  -- - - -   ...... ... . .   ... i .,:.::. ........ 
.::....:..:....                                                            .... .Est.at  estmato  Apprasal
..  ' ... . ,,,' . :,' .....:  ':                                                       : '' . . .,, .....  ........ 
Rodrigues Forest Restoration                               0.37              0.25           68.74
Round Island Restoration                                   0.02              0.01           95.33
lie Aux Aigrettes Restoration                              0.15              0.35             234
lnstitutional Strengthening & Technical Assistance         0.95              0.88             87.8
Total Baseline Cost                                         1.49             1.49
Physical Contingencies                                    0.03
Prce Contingencies                                        0.09
Total Project Costs                  1.61             1.49
Total Financing Required                   1.61             1.49
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.   ...... I....                   ::.    cuthellt'Mdthio        .  .eme.t Meth  ...
,,,.....  .... .   .. . . ..... ..  Ic         ,o                                      .. . .... .. ... .......
1. Works                         0.00           0.13           0.00           0.00           0.13
(0.00)         (0.13)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.13)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.00           0.29           0.00           0.29
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.29)         (0.00)         (0.29)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.71           0.00           0.71
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.71)         (0.00)         (0.71)
4. Training                      0.00           0.00           0.09           0.00           0.09
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.09)         (0.00)         (0.09)
5. Support Services              0.00           0.00           0.40           0.00           0.40
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         0.00           0.13            1.49          0.00           1.62
(0.00)         (0.13)         (1.09)         (0.00)         (1.22)
-21 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
ProcurornCe. tMehd .              flibc
1. Works                         0.00          0.11           0.00          0.00          0.11
(0.00)         (0. I 1)      (0.00)         (0.00)        (0. I 1)
2. Goods                         0.00          0.00           0.26          0.00          0.26
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.26)         (0.00)        (0.26)
3. Services                      0.00          0.00           0.62          0.00          0.62
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.62)         (0.00)        (0.62)
4. Training                      0.00          0.00           0.10          0.00           0.10
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0. I 0)       (0.00)        (0. I 0)
5. Support Services              0.00          0.00           0.40          0.00          0.40
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         0.00           0.11          1.38           0.00          1.49
(0.00)         (0.1 1)       (0.98)         (0.00)        (1.09)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local goverrment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Pereentagee Ap4 atsat
C~~poue1~~t      Appri    Estimate-:          Actuwl'Latest -Estnmate-
Rodrigues Forest          0.40      0.00      0.00      0.25      0.00      0.00     62.5    0.0    0.0
Restoration
Round Island Restoration  0.02      0.00      0.00      0.01      0.00      0.00     50.0    0.0    0.0
lie aux Aigrettes         0.18      0.00      0.00      0.35      0.00      0.00     194.4   0.0    0.0
Restoration
Institutional Strengthening  0.61   0.20      0.20      0.48      0.20      0.20     78.7   100.0  100.0
& Tech. Assistance
-22 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic and financial rate of return analysis are not applicable. The main objective of
the project was to protect and restore globally significant biodiversity resources.
It should be pointed out, nevertheless, that the on-going eco-tourism development at Ile
aux Aigrettes will contribute to the economy of Mauritius. The prospects for restoring more sites
(Mahebourg Bay islets and mangrove, Flat Island and Ile Gabrielle in the North) outlined in
section 6.2 of the main text would increase further the contribution of eco-tourism to the national
economy while enhancing the financial sustainability of conservation efforts.
-23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Pro ect Cycie                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performanc Raing
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progrss       Objectie
Identification/Preparation
1995                        1   TASK MANAGER                       S             S
Supervision
03/20/1996                   2   FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);            S             S
ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
12/20/1996                  2   TASK MANAGER                       S             S
071997                       1   TASK MANAGER                      S             S
11/18/1998                  2   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S             S
Mid-Term Review              2   TASK MANAGER (1),                 S             S
07/04/199                        ECONOMIST (1)
11/1999                     1   TASK MANAGER                       S             S
06/2000                      1   TASK MANAGER (1)                  S             S
12/24/2000                  2   TTL (1); GEF REF.                  S             S
COORDINATOR
ICR
12/31/2001                  1    TTL (I)                           S             S
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   AtaliLatestEstimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ '000)
Identification/Preparation                85                       93.20
Supervision                            79.61                       130.0
ICR                                     3.67                       16.50
Total                                  168.28                     239.70
-24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
[ Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM      ON    * NA
L Sector Policies                       O H  O SU O M, O N    * NA
E Physical                              * H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
O Financial                             O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
3 Institutional Development             0 H  * SU O M    0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                         *H   O SU O M    O N  O NA
Social
O] Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
F Gender                          O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
OI Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
El Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M    O N  0 NA
LO Public sector management             0 H  * SU O M    0 N  0 NA
0 Other (Please specify)                * H  OSUOM       O N  O NA
Biodiversity conservation of globally significant
ecosystems
-25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Hlighly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
El Lending                                          OHS*S OU OHHU
L Supervision                                       OHS      S   OLU    O Hu
K] Overall                                          OHS OS       OU     Oi HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
El Preparation                                      OHS OS       OU    0 HU
3 Government implementation performance             OHS *OS     0 U    0 HU
Fl Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       OU     O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       OU     O HU
-26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
* Project Document.
* Aide-memoirs of Bank supervision missions.
-27 -






IBD 267?5
ROUND
MAURITIUS                                                                  ISLAND
PORT DEVELOPMENT AND
ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT LOCATION
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPONENTS INCLUDE THE ISLANDS OF
RODRIGU_ES, ALIX AIGRETTES, AND ROUND ISLAND.
ARTERIAL ROADS
....... ...MOTORWAY
OTHER MAIN ROADS
BUILT-UP AREAS                                                         INDIAN
RESERVOIRS AND RIVERS
NATIONALCAPITAL
0       OTHER TOWNS AND VILLAGES
OCEANN
INfAN,C                          >_,WIDA
Ombre                                  X           ~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEYCHEUIES   m0
OCEAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                   v     t                  IDNCA
VJKLOMTERSO  2  4   5   d  10                      hAOT 
in.,0hm o.S b..o p o,pdb1, The l9'Od bon6, .1016 .od.wnl,lo  g   I  | I                          To/4  (_  [Y lml=h gCmwod0.Co0l*.
2a I
OCEAN~~~~~ASC 19
ebe  eenm_odreoden  pmd 1s {p  Ihe  mArnA  ao  ol  The  Wmid   MILE3  O      7   3  D  r   I   lknonX~~~~b..,
bonkdGdm Th dmP0>nctipmofu$Thd owddedebbopp Gssp mr ludgmenl J5/ DAGAsc7ILE AUX AlGRUTTES
o  # Sd o us f ny nil r p cn e du m  c   zp l rw l9I                                  *l l ml   M A R TIkI















IMAGING
Report No.:        25047
Type:     lCR



