Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF GRANT NUMBER TF 28308 MAS
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Biodiversity Conservation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated November 29, 1995
GEF GRANT NUMBER TF 28308 MAS
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 29, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as 
Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) (the Implementing 
Agency).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
pursuant to Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (the Resolution), adopted the Instrument for the Establishment of the 
Restructured Global Environment Facility to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development;
(B) 
certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have provided resources by 
way of grants into the GEF and the Participants have requested and the Bank has 
agreed, to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and in 
accordance with, provisions of the Resolution;
(C) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF in the financing of the Project, and the Implementing 
Agency has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions 
of the Resolution; and
(D)
the Implementing Agency has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the GEF Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
Page  2
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph no. 21 shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 
to read as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the 
symbol "SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the 
International Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of 
Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Implementing Agency 
except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting 
in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Grant Account; and
(vii)
the second sentence in Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
Page  3
import, to the knowledge of the Bank is, prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MOA" means the Recipient’s Ministry of Agriculture;
(b)
"MWF" means the Mauritius Wildlife Fund, a non-governmental organization;
(c)
"MOU" means the Memorandum of Understanding, dated December 3, 1994, 
between MOA and MWF, for cooperation in matters of biodiversity conservation;
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(e)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the 
Recipient and MWF for the implementation of the Project referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Grant
Section 2.01. The Implementing Agency agrees to make available to the Recipient, 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Grant 
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights SDR (800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Grant may be withdrawn from the GEF 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Implementing Agency shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Implementing Agency, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Implementing Agency shall establish. The Implementing Agency shall promptly notify 
the Recipient of such later date.
Section 2.04. MWF is designated as representatives of the Recipient for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MOA, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and environmental practices and with due regard 
to ecological biodiversity and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Recipient shall enter 
into an agreement with MWF (the Subsidiary Agreement), on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Implementing Agency, which shall include, inter alia:
(i)
delegation to MWF of the authority for all procurement actions and 
for award, signature and payment of contracts;
(ii)
provision for the transfer to MWF of the proceeds of the Grant on 
Page  4
a non-reimbursable and semi-annual basis;
(iii)
the methods and procedures applicable to the transfer of the 
proceeds of the GEF Grant to MWF;
(iv)
the obligation of MWF to promptly inform the Recipient and the 
Implementing Agency of any condition which interferes, or 
threatens to interfere, with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant, or the performance by 
MWF of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement;
(v)
the obligation of MWF to take all measures necessary to ensure 
that the Project is carried out with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with appropriate administrative, technical, 
environmental and financial practices; and
(vi)
the carrying out by MWF of the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04. 9.05. 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records 
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively); and
(c)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Implementing Agency 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Grant and, except as the Implementing Agency 
shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Implementing Agency shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1995: (i) 
prepare a comprehensive training program under paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, and (ii) develop an annual work program for the Project; and (b) promptly 
thereafter furnish such programs to the Implementing Agency for its review and 
comments.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out said parts of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Implementing Agency;
(ii)
furnish to the Implementing Agency, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Implementing Agency shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Implementing Agency such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Implementing Agency shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
Page  5
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Implementing Agency has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the GEF Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Implementing Agency’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as a condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, that:
(a)
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and 
MWF; and
(b)
MWF has employed a program plant conservation manager, a plant 
conservation officer for Rodrigues, and a resident warden for Ile aux Aigrettes, all 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Minister of Finance
Government House
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN,  Port Louis 
4249 EXTERN IW
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Page  6
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
By /s/ A. P. Neewoor
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
as Implementing Agency of
the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Stephen M. Denning
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
  Amount of the
GEF Grant Allocated
   % of
   (Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1)
Civil works
  80,000
100%
(2)
Equipment and
 160,000
100%
spare parts
(3)
Consultants'
 420,000
100% 
services and
engineering
supervision
(4)
Training
  50,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
  90,000
TOTAL
 800,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.
The Implementing Agency may require withdrawals from the GEF Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and works 
under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and services under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent for firms and $50,000 equivalent for individuals, under 
such terms and conditions as the Implementing Agency shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.
Page  7
4.
If the Implementing Agency shall have determined at any time that any payment 
made from the GEF Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Implementing Agency, refund to the Implementing Agency for deposit into the GEF Grant 
Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by 
the Implementing Agency.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in: (i) protecting 
internationally important biodiversity by restoring degraded areas of natural habitat 
to help the recovery of populations of threatened island endemics; and (ii) 
strengthening the capacity for the management and monitoring of biodiversity 
restoration on three different islands habitats.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Implementing Agency may agree upon from time to time 
to achieve such objectives:
1.
Carrying out a survey to: (a) identify original habitat/community types for 
determining species recovery and habitat restoration targets on Rodrigues Island, Ile 
aux Aigrettes and Round Island; and (b) eradicate or control undesired exotic species.
2.
Construction of facilities and acquisition of equipment for the ex-situ 
propagation and cultivation of threatened plants.
3.
Acquisition of equipment and supplies for the propagation, replanting and 
reseeding of endemic plants and reintroduction of endemic animals from captive-bred 
populations.
4.
Strengthening the agencies involved in the Project in the areas of: (a) project 
planning and administration; (b) horticultural expertise to ensure the viability of 
propagation services and the long-term holding of plant populations; (c) expertise in 
applied conservation biology, including the genetic/demographic management of 
endangered plant populations; and (d) skills in habitat monitoring, through the 
provision of technical advisory services and training.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. 
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $100,000 or less per contract and $400,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Equipment and spare parts may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  8
Part C:
Review by the Implementing Agency of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Implementing Agency for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Implementing Agency, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant  Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Implementing Agency, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by 
the Implementing Agency. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Implementing Agency, other standard forms acceptable to the Implementing 
Agency shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Implementing Agency review or approval of 
budgets short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Implementing Agency review 
shall apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Implementing Agency, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $100,000 
to be withdrawn from the GEF Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Implementing Agency shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $50,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
GEF Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Implementing Agency pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  SDR 320,000.
Page  9
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Implementing Agency has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Implementing Agency a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do 
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Implementing Agency shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Implementing Agency requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Implementing Agency shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Implementing Agency the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Implementing 
Agency shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Implementing Agency from the GEF Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Implementing Agency shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Implementing Agency such documents and other evidence showing that such payment 
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Implementing 
Agency shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Implementing Agency shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Implementing Agency, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Implementing Agency pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Implementing Agency shall have notified the 
Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient 
to make withdrawals from the GEF Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Implementing Agency pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the GEF Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Implementing Agency shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Implementing Agency 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Implementing Agency shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount 
Page  10
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Implementing Agency, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Implementing Agency: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Implementing Agency may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Implementing Agency shall so request, refund to the Implementing Agency) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Implementing Agency shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Implementing Agency into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Implementing Agency shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Implementing Agency, refund to the Implementing Agency such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Implementing Agency, refund to the 
Implementing Agency all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
