Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8628
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CREDIT 1397-IN)
MAY 8, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Asia Regional Office
hib doument has a reticted dshistbti  and may be used by reipiet only in the pedormne of
thir officld duti  Its contents may not othewise be discosed wihout Wodd bank atwh ation.



CXBQUbI
Nam of Currency: Rupee (Rs)
Rate of Exchange: Appraisal (September 1982)        US$1.00 = Rs 9.50
Intervening years (average)       US$1.00 = Rs 10.40
Compledon year                    US$1.00 = Rs 12.36
Fiscal Year of BonTower GOI and GOO: April 1 - March 31
Weights and Measures: Metric System
GLOSSARY
kharif      -  Wet season; June - October.
rab         -  Dry season; November - ApriL
chak        -  Watercourse CCA.
watercourse  -  Small channel below outlet serving a chak down to S ha blocks
(sub-chaks), with capacity to take full outlet discharge from head to tail
waabandi   -  A rotational water supply (RWS) system of alocating water among
farmers by fixed turns and time periods; flow rate is constam  and time
periods are proportional to land holding size.
ABBREVIATIONS
AC          -  Appraisal Conmnittee
ARDC        -  Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CAD         -  Command Area Developnent
CCA         -  Culivable Command Anra
CWC         -  Central Water Commission
DAFP        -  Directate of Agriculture and Food Production
DRP         -  Dam (Safety) Review Panel
ERR         -  Economic Rate of Retum
GOO         -  Government of Orissa
GOI         -  Govenmment of India
I&PD        -  lIrigation and Power Department (within GOO)
ID          -  lirigation Department (within I&PD)
LC          -  Land Consolidation
M&E         -  Monitoring and Evaluation
MIP         -  Medium Irrigation Project
OFD         -  On-Farm Development
O&M         -  Operation and Maintenance
PCR         -  Project Completion Report
R&D         -  Research and Development
RWS         -  Rotational Water Supply
SCMC        -  State Coordinating and Monitoring Committee
WMP         -  Water Management Plan



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OFFICIA US ONY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.SA.
Olfce of OiuctrGa
O~ie  vluuitiim
May 8, 1990
ME4ORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Proj ct Completion Report on India Orissa
Irrixation II Proiect (Credit 1397-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on India - Orissa Irrigation II Project (Credit
1397-IN)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Yves Rovani
by Ram K. Chopra
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfomtance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwse be disckwsed without World Blank autttiot*stin.



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
ORISSA IRRIGATION I PROJECr (Credit 1397-IN)
PBOlEC COMPLON REPOR
Itae of Coltents
Page, No.
Preface         ........................................................................................... .(i)
Evaluation Summary                                                               (ii)
PART I: PROJECI REVIEW FROM BANKIS PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .1
Background .1
Project Objectives and Desctiption .1
Project Design and Orpanizadon.                                          2
Project Implementation.                                                  3
Project Results.                                                         6
Project Sustainability.                                                  8
Hank Performance.                                                        8
Borrower Perfornmance .11
Project Relationships .13
Project Documentation and Data .14
Conclusions .14
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .15
PART I: STATISTICAL INPORMATION
Table 1.        Related Bank Loans and Credits ..............................   16
Table 2.        Project Timetable ........................................   17
Table 3.        Loan Disbursements ........................................  17
Table 4.        Project Implementation  ........................................   18
Table 5.        Project Costs and Fmancing.
A - Project Costs                                    19
B - Project Financing                               20
C - Loan Disbusement Categories                     20
Table 6.   Project Results.
A - Direct Benefits                                 21
B - Economic Impart                                 22
C - Fnancial Impact                                 22
D - Studies and Institutional Support               23
Table 7.        Record of Compliance with Major Covenants ..............  24
Table 8.    Use of Staff Resources .
A - Staff Inputs                                    26
B - Bank Missions                                   27
C - Costs                                           27
Annex 1         Economic Re-Evaluation of MIPs  ...........................   28
map             Location of Individual Project Schemes (MIPs)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by re.ipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(i)
-                    ~~~~~INDIA
ORISSA IRRMAION XI PROJECr
CREDIT 1397 - IN
PROJECT COQMh      QN REPORT
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews implementaion of the Orissa
Irrigadon I Project in India for which Credit 1397-IN in the amount of US$ 105.0 million
was approved on July 7,1983. The Credit was closed on March 31,1988 when some
US$ 49.7 million (about 38%) of the Credit was cancelled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and m of this Report were prepared
by staff members of the Agricultual Division of Asia Technical Depment (ASTAG), and
were reviewed by the staff of the Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department 4,
both in headquarters and in New Delhi.
The Borwer was requested to prepare a PCR in March 1988, to be available to the
Bank in October 1988, but none was received. Arrangements could not be cleared with the
Borrower or the Goverment of Orissa (GOO) for a field visit to the project sites.
Pzepamtion of this PCR is therefore based on, inter alia, the Staff Appraisal Report (No.
4448-IN, dated May 31, 1983), the President's Report (No. P 3612-IN of the same date),
the Development redit and Project Agreements, dated September 16, 1983, Bank
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, other internal
documentation available within the Bank. Ihe staff member responsible for the preartion
of the PCR visited the project sites during the Banrcs last full supervision mission in
December 1987.
The Borrower was requested in January 1990 to provide a review from the
Borrower's perspective (Part II), but none was received. This PCR has been read by the
Opeatios Evaluation Department (OED).



(ii)
INDIA
ORSSAS IRRIGATION XI PROJECr
CREDIT 1397-N
PROlECI COMPLETION REPORT
ERvaluation Sumn=
Introducton.
The project covered by this PCR was the second project in medium scale irngation development
financed by the Bank/IDA'/ in the State of Orissa in India. The project followed the Orissa Irrigation I
Project (Cr. 740 - IN, US$ 58.OM, 1977) which was on-going at the time of appraisal
QbWfe.
The four year time slice supported the State's construction program for medium irrigation projects
(MIPs), land consolidation and on-farm development. At appraisal, the five main components were: (i)
completion of 18 on-going MIPs; (ii) construction of 6 new MIPs; (iii) land consolidation on 160,000 ha of
command areas under major irigation projects; (iv) on-farm development on 48,000 ha where LC had been
completed; and (v) the support of research and development, training and monitoring and evaluation. The
construction of 6 new MIPs was not implemented.
Implementadon Experience.
Project implementation has been less than successful. The main expenditure item was completion of
the 18 MIPs started under the Orissa Irrigation I Project. There has been considerable variation in
implementation quality, as would be expected under a time slice operation with many isolated sub-projects
spread over the State. Some schemes have deteiorated after construction of main works, because the minor
canal systems are incomplete, or failed to function as designed. Most MIPs have not been adequately
maintained during the extended construction period. Implementation was hampered by a variety of problems
which, inter alia, include: (i) delays in land acquisition and forest clearance; (ii) poor institutional
coordinadon; (iii) little priority by GOO to the completion and full development of MIPs; and (iv) the quality
of planning and design. Dam safety was a major concern through the project period, due to shortcomings in
planning, design and implementation. The GOIVCWC have recognized the potental risks related to dam
safety and action is now underway to establish a National Dam Safety Project, which would address
problems encountered under this project in Orissa and other Indian States.
The land consolidation has been an inportant project achievement, was probably more successful
than any simila Program in India and has been implemented in a sensitive and effective way (ref paras 1.08
and 1.17). The on-farm development program was exceeded in terms of physical area, but has made little
impact to improving the water use efficiency.
Results.
The PCR analysis of the ERR is at best indicative, reflecting a similar judgement at project appraisal.
The reestinated ERR for the project would average about 6.0 % compared to 14.0% at appWaisal taking into
account the PCR aem nt of likely future performance of GOO. The re-evaluated ERR for the individual
MIPs are likely to range from 2.4% to 13.5% and only 3 MIPs would have ERRs that exceed 10%. The
general shortfall in ERR compared to that evaluated at appaisal (and the PCR of the first Orissa Ifrigation
Project) reflects: (i) substantial cost ovenuns; (ii) serious delays in project implementation; (iii) ineffective
water management; (iv) incomplete forest and land clearance and agricultural development; and (v) slower
1/ Reference to the Bank in this report includes IDA.



(OiR)
than expected response by farmers to inigation, particularly for crops other than paddy. 'tere is insufficient
data to quantify the impact of the land consolidation component. However the successful land consolidation
program should generate substantial benefits since fragmented land holdings have seriously constrained
efficient land use in Orissa. The on-farm development component has been less than successful mainly
because of poor planning and design. The component was implemented as a target oriented construction
program with little interest in the potential impact.
Sustainabilt..
The i cure provided under the project has not been effectively maintained because
responsibility for O&M is not well defined and there have been shortage of O&M funding, staffing and
resources (including tanspoadon and communications). There are signs that GOO is initiating some
coretive actions, but proect sustainability will be difficult because: (i) most inigation schemes are isolated;
(ii) funding and staffing are unlikely to improve; and (iii) it will not be easy to change and strengthen the ID.
Findings and Lessons Learnt
The Bank had reason to assume that a follow-up project in Orissa would be successful given the
efforts put into the rirst Ondssa Irigation Project. However project performance depended on GOO taking
hard policy decisions on sensitive issues such as institutional strengthening and staffing, budget provision for
non-planned expendiures and general improvements in bureaucratuc procedures. The appras also assurmed
that under the ine-of-credit' approach, the CWC could effecively appraise MPs and monitor project
implementation performance. Both critical appraisal assumptions proved to be opdmistic. The appraisal did
not give sufficient attention to the lessons learnt from the on-going first Orissa Irrigation ProjectL The signal
given to the Borrower in the rapid processing of the follow-up operation (and confimed in the PCR and
PPAR of the Orissa Inigation I Project ) was that the Bank believed that a time slice approach to medium
scale irrigation development was woridng.
The Bank supervision performance was at best mixed, until May 1987 when the project was rated a
problem project and remained such until Credit closure. Lack of reliable information was the dominant
reason why many key issues were not addressed earlier in the project cycle. The Bank supervision allowed
many problems to develop unchecked, so that the project diverted from the plan envisaged at appraisal. It is
understandable that GOVCWCW(;00 found it difficult to read the seriousness of the project situation when it
was designated 'serious problem status' after almost a decade of Bank acceptance of implementation progress
under Orissa Irrigation Projects.
The main lessons to be learnt by the Borrower (GOIAJOO) relate to: (i) local funding and the
budgetary process; (ii) institutional capability, resonsibility, accountabiiity and coordination; (iii) manpower
and terms of employment; (iv) the role of and need for technical assistance; (v) the quality of planning and
design and the appropiateness of technology; (vi) completing development and sustining irrigaton schemes;
(vii) monitoring and reporting; and (viii) the need for diagnostic evaluation. There are also important lessons
to related to the poor performance of CWC in appraisal of individual MIPs and general project supervision. A
fundamental lesson to be leant by the GO/CWC(GOO is that diagnostic analysis of project planning, design
and implementation must be introduced, if the substantal investments in the irrigation subsector are to obtain
full irrigated agricultural benefits.
Clearly the project has not performed as envisaged at appraisal and the major problems, particularly
just prior to closure of the Credit, strained the relationship between the Bank and GOVG/OO. However,
many project problems could not be tackled under a specific investment project within Orissa and reflect
generic/policy issues at national and state leveL particularly those related to institutional capability and
performance. Perhaps the most discouraging outcome has been that 01VOO may still not flly recognized
the importance of the lessons to be leamnt, not only for the project but for the inrigation subsector.
Consequently, there has been litle willingness by G01/GOO to take strong remedial actions necessary to
obtain the potential benefits from the project



PART 1: PRQJEC RUEVW EL) BAS PERSPECT IE
PepldnfinS
Project Name:     Orissa Inigation II Project
Credit No.  :     1397 -IN
RVP Unit   :    Asia
Country     :    India
Sector      :    Agriculture
Subsector    :    Irrigation
Backg&nnd
1.01  Seco    eeiv   The Governmenfs major objectives for the agriculture sector during the project
period and successive Five Year Development Plans were to: (i) increase production to meet domestic
requirements for food while meeting the needs for industry and expanding agricultural exports; (i)
increase farmers' incomes and generate rural employment; (iii) promote a more balanced distibution of
economic opportunites through regional development; (iv) contrbute to health and better nutrtonal
status of the population; and (v) ensure productive, sustainable use of India's land, water and other
naturl resources. The extent of the deficit in food production, the sensitivity of total production to
drought, and the rate of increase in demand due to population growth made irrigation, and the introduction
of improved agdcultural technology essential elements of India's development strategy.
1.02  Po_ia ne  anItese lLink. Agriculture remains a dominant secor of the Indian
economy, contributing about 33% of GDP and providing employment to some 64% of the total labor
force. Foodgrain production accelerated substandally during the 1960s as a result of the green revolution
and the introduction of high-yielding varietieF f wheat and rice. During the fifth (1974-79) and Sixth
(1979-84) Plan periods, output has continued oy about 2.7% per year. About 60% of this increase can be
attributed to greater yields, and the balance mainly to increased double cropping. Growth in wheat output
(5.5% p.a.) reflects the outstanding performance of the Northwest States (Punjab, Haryana, West UP).
In contrast, rice production has increased by only 2.0% p.a. owing to the poor performance of the Eastern
States, and coarse grain have climbed only (1.5%) because of limited increases under rainfed conditions.
The rising output of foodgrains has been accompanied by some diversification into higher-value cash
crops (sugarcane, cotton, etc.). At the same time, production of oil seeds and pulses has failed to keep up
with the demand.
1. 03 Since 1947, irrigation potential in India has risen from about 19.5 M ha to 61.5 M ha (1983/84),
with some 93% of the potential estimated to be utlized. Sixth Plan achievemensts fell short of targets, but
potential stll rose at 2.5 M ha per year. Ultimate irrigation potential has been estimated at 113.5 M ha. or
60% of the cultivated area  creased irrigation accounts in large part for the improvement in agricultural
performance. Inigation has not only increased the area cropped and reduced crop losses in areas of
inadequate rainfall, but it has also reduced the risks associated with rainfed farming, and thus encouraged
diversified cropping and the use of HYV seeds and chemical inputs.
EPrc Objcdv  and Deston
1.04 The State of Orissa is one of the poorest States in India. A large segment of the State's population
is classified as 'tribal' or 'backward class', which is generally among the less affected by the country's
economic progress to date. The State is predominantly rual and agricultural, and progress in general
economic development depends on increased crop producton and income in the agriculural sector. Total
annual rainfall is high on average, but undependable during monsoon and very limited in the dry season.
Expansion and improvement of irrigation is therefore an essential ingredient in the State's economic
growth.
1.05  The project objective was to support a second time slice of the Odissa rigation I Project



-2 -
(Cr. 740 - IN, US$ 58.OM, 1977) which was on-going at the time of appraisal and closed on October 31,
1983. The four year time slice supported the State's construction program for medium irrigation projects
(MWs) and programs for land consolidation and on-farm development. At appraial, the second project
had five main components: (i) completion of 18 on-going MIPs; (ii) construction of 6 new MIPs; (iii) land
consolidation (LC) on some 160,000 ha of command areas under major irrigation projects; (iv) on-farm
development (OFD) on 48,000 ha where LC had been completed; and (v) support of research and
development (R&D), training and monitoring and evaluation (M&E). The construction of the 6 new
MIPs was conditional on completion of on-going MIPs and not implemented (para 1.26).
Prect Design and ranization
1.06 The Orissa Irrigation II Project design followed that of the Orissa Inigation I Project which was
conceived as the first 'line-of-credit' project in India for construction of MIPs. The 'line-of-credit'
approach was adopted since it was the only pracdcal way that IDA could support a project with a large
number of scattered sub-projects. Under this project concept, the appraisal and monitoring of individual
MlIPs was to be undertaken by the Central Water Commission (CWC) of GOI in accordance with criteria
and procedures agreed with IDA. Ihe project design reflected the lessons learnt by GOI and the Bank
under the first time slice and two other similar projects supporting MIP programs in the States of Gujarat
and Madhya Pradesh. The five most pressing issues identified during the first time slice were: (i)
technical problems related to planning, design and implementation of minor canal systems (watercourses);
(ii) cost overruns and delays in completion of MIPs; (iii) institutional capability, (iv) ineffective water
management and lack of involvement of farmers; and (v) the need to strengthen the agricultural support
services. These lesson learnt from the first project were described in a PCR dated June 18, 1984 (about
10 months after Board presentation of the Orissa U Project).
1.07  Froect rEm  atdon. 'The preparation of the Orissa I Project was undertaken by the Irrigation and
Power Department (I&PD) of GOO. Relatively little had to be done since most project activities were
continuation of works started under the Orissa I project. IDA supported GOO in the preparation,
particularly in translating lessons leamt from the first project into addition.0 components. Special attention
was given to agricultural support, project commnunications, institutional strengthening, quality control,
land acquisiton and forest clearance, and MIP operation and water management based on rotational water
supply (RWS). The project preparation covered most areas where improvements were necessary but did
not fully address the causes of the problems which affected the first time slice. For example, a major
shortcoming was the failure to establish the true status of the on-going MlPs. Most on-going MIPs were
originally prepared on an inadequate data base, no real understanding of how the schemes would be
operated, and a lack of attention to detailed design. The project costs could not be estimated with any '
certainty even though most MIPs had been under construction for many years. The MIP preparation
reports were equivalent to identification or feasibility studies. No MIP appears to have been planned and
designed to the standards implicit in the criteria agreed by GO/CWCIIDA.
1.08 Qaization. Implementation anrangernents generally followed the same pattern as in the on-
going Orissa I Project. The Irrigation Department (ID) within the I&PD of GOO was responsible for
constructon and operation and maintenance of MlPs ard for the training and R&D components; the
Diectorate of Land Consolidation in the Revenue Departnent for land consolidation; and the Directrate
of Agriculture and Food Production (DAFP) in the Depment of Agriculture and Cooperation for
construction of OFD works. An important organizational objective was to inmrove policy level
coordination aid overall monitoring of the various GOO agencies involved in the project. A high-level
State Coordinating and Monitoring Committee (SCMC) was to be set up chaired by the GOO
Development Comnissioner. The role of CWC, through an Appraisal Committee was to take direct
responsibility for the appraisal and progress monitoring (in addition to IDA supervision) of the MlPs
financed under the project, as agreed under Schedule I in the Development Credit Agreement.
1.09                  The IDA appraisal documentation provided plausible pioposals to resolve
most problems identified under the first time slice. The appraisal and legal documentation confirm that
GO recognized most lessons to be learnt from Orissa 1 Project The SAR indicated that the detailed
designs of most MIPs were approaching completion and were in the process of being translated into a
practical and coordinated work programs. Project implementation proved this not to be the case. The



-3-
most important assumption was that the CWC would efficiently fulill its agreed role in respect to MIP
appraisal and direct monitoring of the project. The SAR also implies that many basic technical standards
and policy, procedural and institutional issues had been fully explored and agreed by GOI/CWC and the
partcipating agencies within (OO. Tis proved to be optimistic. Many implementation problems appear
to have been caused by only partial evaluation during the preparation and appraisal process of the causes
of the problems under the Cr)ssa I Project The MPs started under the Orissa I had been considerably
behind schedule even though the main construction activity had been major civil works (i.e. dams and
main canal systems). In fact, no on-going MWP was far enough advanced at IDA appraisal to fully
assess the practical difficulties and constraints of completing and operating an MIP. Many issues which
subsequently became major project problems, should have been given more attention during the IDA
appraisal process. Somehow these concerns got lost under the tight time frame (to deliver another lending
operadon) as the IDA appraisal moved towards negotiations. Another factor which affected the appraisal
was that the IDA appraisal mission followed after very serious monsoon flooding in Orissa when
government staff were diverted to relief workl Communications were cut off to most parts of the State,
strictly limiting field trips during appraisal
Project hnplementation
1.10  Genera. Project implementation has been less than successfua    A core problem was the difficulty
of managing many isolated MIPs scated over the State by weak government departments. The ID and
other departments involved were hampered by a wide range of institutional constraints and problems
(para 1.22). These institutional problems were recognized at IDA appraisal and most were covered by
appropriate conditionalities, in particular, the monitoring role of CWC. However, the ID appeared to be
pnmarily interested in construction of main civil works with limited interest in the overall perfonnance of
irigation systems. Consequently, the various work programs continued on separate parallel tracks and
reflected un,'redictable budget provisions and general constraints related to staffing, resources and
facilities.
1.11  A successful line-of-credit' operation in irrgated a Iculn development depended on a strong
coordinating agency able to take action on many issues with statewide implications. A State Coordination
and Monitoring Committee (SCMC) of (OO was supposed to take on this responsibility, but was not
effective at project implementation level. Many policy issues (ie. land acquisition and forest clearance,
water management, and dam safety) were not addressed in a timely manner. Coordinadon problems and
delays due to inaction on policy issues were compounded throuh project implementation by poor
monitoring and unreliable data collection (para 1.24). The 000/ID and CWC did not '.ilow, or did not
seriously question, the project status well enough to idendfy the causes of most problems and plan
corrective action. Unfotunately, one indicator of implementation progress, the pace of disbursements,
was pardcularly successful under the Orissa I Project and this may have cause both GO/GOO and IDA to
underrate the potential problems under the follow-up project
1.12 Construction of MIPs. The main expenditure item was completion of the 18 MIPs started under
the Orissa I Project There has been considerable varation in implementation quality, as would be
expected under a 'line-of-credit' operation with many isolated sub-prqjects spread over the State. Main
civil works were generally of a standard acceptable to the State (and CWC) but not of the quality implied
in the Credit and Project Agreements with IDA. Implementation quality varied considerably between the
MIPs, reflecting the difficulty of site management and supevision of isolated MIPs. Some schemes have
deteriorated after construction of main works, because minor canal systems are incomplete or failed to
function as designed. Most MIPs have not been adequately maintained during the extended construction
period. A basic variance from project planning has been that main civil works progressed much quicker
than minor works and operational principles implicit in the designs of MIPs have not been successfully
demonstrated. The work program was also uncoordinated for a variety of reasons including: (i) delays in
land acquisition and forest clearance; (ii) poorly institutonal coordination; and (iii) little piority by GOO
to the completion and full development of MIPs. A recuing problem through the project period was that
schemes were declared and treated as complete in terms of budget provisions when considerable
undefined or remedial works still had to be done. This shortcoming occurred mainly because there has
been no fomal procedure for testing and verifying that MIPs were complete and that the irrigation service
could reach all pars of the MIP command aras.



-4-
1.13 Lack of completion of minor canal works (watercourses) has been widespread, reflecting on the
quality of the planning and design of MuPs. It also reflects on the appraisal process by CWC which
appraised and approved Mu's with no clcar understanding of how the schemes would be operated. The
delays in forest clearance and development have compounded the problems of completing watercourse
systems which could not be built and sustained through standing forest or shrub. Experience has shown
that if watrcourses are not fully completed, efficient operation of schemes becomes virtually impossible.
The incomplete minor irigation systems on most Mu's have also meant that the irrigation senrice has been
generally unreliable. As a result many farmers, particularly tail-enders, have not been able to use the
imigation service benefiting upstream farnmers. With no mal accountability for project performance, the
has been little urgency for the II) to complete the minor works to provide a reliable service to all the
command area Incomplete MWP commands have generally obviated the need for efficient O&M because
there has usually been sufficient or surplus water for the limited upstream command area which can be
irrigated
1.14 Pm Safey. IDA's concern regarding dam safety increased through the project period as it
became more evident that there were fundamental technical and quality issues affecting the project These
technical concerns related to the quality of planning, design and implementation, poor and incomplete
records of completed works, and a general lack of monitoring and reporting. In addition, until October
1986, the GOO had shown nominal interest in dam safety as reflected by the performance of the Dam
Safety Review Panel (DRP). The DRP was set up as agreed with IDA but remained dormt The DRP
Was only reactivated late in 1986 after IDA prompting, and then without any real support either by GOO,
the ID and initially by the CWC The reactivated DRP identified extensive and potentially serious
problems with most dams, causing IDA to express grave concern to GO/OO. However, dam safety
was a sensitive political and institutional issue. The CWC (responsible for the appraisal of dams and
monitoring implementation) reviewed the DSP reports and advised that, with the exception of some
outstanding issues related to hydrology, there was no cause for concern as to the safety of the project
dams. The CWC advice did not address many of the basic problems identified by the DRP and raised
new concms in IDA on the objectivity and competence of CWC staff to perform the required technical
audits of dams.
1.15 IDA considered that the situation was inconsistent with obligations under the Bank operational
policies and procedures (OMS 3.80) related to the safety of dams. Consequently, IDA sought expert
exteral advice on the evidence available from the State's DRP and the CWC reports. As a result, it was
decided to mount a high-level independent review by recognized international experts. In December
1987, this review (n contradicton to CWCs position at that time) advised that there were serious
unresolved technical issues at each of the six dams visited. The issues meant that at best the safety of the
dams was unknown. A core problem which complicated any diagnostic evaluation of the technical issues
was extremely poor - sometimes non-existent - documentation of the data related to investigations,
designs and construcdon. The independent IDA dam review concluded that CWCfGOO would need
substantal technical assistance to resolve the specific technical issues related to dam safety. IDA also
concluded that GOO needed technical assistance to address the underlying institutional and other technical
problems affecting the project, pardcularly related to MWP operation (para 1.19).
1.16  The differences between IDA and GO1/CWCG000 on the need for extemal technical assistance
and the seriousness of the dam safety issues could not be tesolved in the extremely tight time fiame to the
Credit closing date of December 31, 1987. As a consequence, and after further efforts to resolve the
issues, the Credit was closed on March 31, 1988. The latest situation with respect to dam safety is not
known since arrangements for a PCR mission to visit Orissa could not be agreed with GO/00.
However, there is encouraging evidence that GO1/CWC/GOO has recognized the importance of the
technical and institutional issues related to dam safety and the potential risks involved. Action is now
underway to establish a National Dam Safety Project, which wo,Ad address the problems encountered
under this project and those in other States of India.
1.17 Iad Consolidaion. The lar;d consolidation has been an important project achievement and
probably more successful than any similar program in India. Up to June 1986, the target of 160,000 ha
had been successfully consolidated because: (i) the majonty of farmers understood and appreciated their



-5-
peonal benefit from the program; and (ii) the program was implemented in a sensitive and effective way.
Although the land was successfully consolidated, the programimpact may be less than expected because
on-fam development was not undertaken concurrent with the LC program. Thus if at some future date,
minor drainage has to be added or the minor irrigation system improved within areas consolidated under
the project, further land consolidation may have to take place. In this respect, coordination between the
LC and irrigation/drinage progams would have been difflcult to achieve since the LC program was not
planned to cover blocks of irigated commands.
1. 18  On--fa= Develogent. The OFD program was exceeded in terms of physical area but the
effectiveness of the program has never been really evaluated. There was concern through the project
period that the improvement in efficiency of water use was not being achieved. The OFD progmm could
and should have been thoroughly evaluated as soon as the works were startd (under the Orissa I Project)
since an OFD evaluation could have been done on a small completed area. It is concluded that the main
objective of the implementing agency was to complete the physical work targets set in each year. Few
OFD works were completed in the MIP command areas although OHD works should have been designed
before the watercourse command areas were finalized and watercourses aligned.
1.19  Ogperaion and Maintenance. Risks associated with O&M were foreseen at appraisal and
appropriate conditionalities v,ere agreed relating to operating and water management plans. However, the
effect on O&M of the long delays in implementation and limited capability of the ID at field level were not
anticipated. As yet, no MIP is believed to be fully operational, although GOO has declared 9 MIPs as
being complete. Consequently, there is still no conclusive evidence that MPs (some started a decade ago)
can be operated as designed. Amnost all MIPs designated as substantially complete appear to be randomly
opeaed since there are no explicit operational plans that can be understood and used by typical field staff.
Most field staff do not fully understand (and have no practical experience) of rotational water supply
(RWS). Consequendy, most MIPs at present are operated either as 'on-demand' systems or 'free flow'
with some head regulator control. Operation of MIPs as designed is likely to remain difficult because
paddy is the preferred crop in both the kharif and rabi seasons. In fact, there is some doubt whether MIPs
can be managed following water allocation principles implicit under RWS operation because O&M staff
cannot enforce the required discipline. Thus the O&M role of site staff is mainly limited to maintenance -
which is usually remedial or curative. Permanent arrangements for routine O&M are generally not yet
finalized orfully funded.
1.20 Ihe reservoir storage and canal system management have not been treated as essential
determinants in the planning and design of MlPs. In fact, introduction of the RWS operating principles
took place after the MIPs were designed. A basic technical issue, still unresolved, is whether the MIPs as
designed and constructed can be operated to provide an inigation service which is timely and reliable
thrughout the MIP command areas. For example, there are no specific procedures for dealing with how
water shortage should be distributed through a command. Reservoir yields awe not being managed to
maximize storage for post-monsoon irrigation. This will inevitably limit the project impact in the dry
season which has been assumed to contribute a substantial proportion of the project benefits.
1.21 ITe appraisal placed strong emphasis oa farmer participation. However, most farmers were new
to irrigation and simply did not understand the need for cooperation within an MIP command. In this
respect, a project conditionality that GOO/ID would produce water management plans (WMPs) for all
MIPs with farmer representatves involved in the process proved to be unworkable WMPs were set up
as a proforma exercise with no real undemanding of the objectives. The viability of WMPs was
questioned through the project period by IDA supervision missions but without any measurable results. It
is concluded that WMPs must be demonstated as workable and useful, or farmers will continue to
question the credibility of the ID and the project
1.22 Pre Insdtutions. There has been growing evidence that project technical problems and other
constraints were simply effects of a more fundamental problem - a basic insdtutional weakness that was
not fully recognized either at IDA appraisal or in the PCR of the Orissa 1 Project The ID has limited
institutional capability, lacks specialist staff and has an organizational structure that needed to be
rationalized. Established management and quality control procedures within the ED either did not work



-6-
because they were not practical, or because they could not be (or were not) enforced. Within the ID and
other project agencies, policy and technical directives were often misunderstood or were incomplete when
they reached the working level. Clearance, certification or verification procedures were regularly treated
as proforma exercises rather than essential checks on performance. Extended chains of responsibility and
severe restrictions on travel often resulted in misunderstandings and inconsistencies at field level. All
these shorcoomings were recognized (and geneally agreed bv IDA and GOO), but could not be resolved
at the project level. This was &cuse the causes of the shortcomings were often generic problems and
constraints affecting all State institutions. For example, the D:) generally could not place its best staff in
key positions because promotion is based on seniority and because staff assignments are often
conditioned by patronage outside the department. The terms and conditions of employment are such the
govemment staff have virtually permanent tenure. This has stricdy constrained the management options
and also has limited accountability for performance.
1.23 The effectiveness of the ID (and other agencies involved) has been restricted by GOO/CWC not
recognizing the seriousness of the project situation until the problems became major concerns of IDA.
The project was not given sufficient support for non-planned expenditures, particularly if these varied
from established statewide nonrs. This has meant dtat the institudonal strengthening components under
the project could not be successfully implemented. For example, the ID performance has been severely
resticted by poor communications and lack of transportation (essential to reach the isolated MIP sites and
offices outside headquarters). There has been insufficient support for non-construction activities such as
investigations, planmng and design, R&D, training and M&E. These institutional and staffing risks were
not fully identified at IDA appraisal (or in the PCR of the Orissa I Project), but have been critical to
shortcomings in project performance.
1.24 Monitoring and Reporfing. A basic reason why project institutions have not be effective has been
poor or incomplete monitoring and reporting. This has limited the effectiveness of the State Coordinating
and Monitoring Committee. Without information, the SCMC could not make realistic decisions and
probably never really knew the actual project status (or the real problems) through Cie project period. The
information gap is illustrated by the fact that project status (and thus costs) could not be established with
any certainty at IDA appraisal even though Orissa I Project had been underway for five yeas The project
status still could not be established with any certainty at Credit closure and was an important reason for
not extending the Credit closing date. Almost every progress report revised or contradicted previous
progress data. Most information related to physical or financial progress of civil work progams with
virtually no reliable data on project performance. In addidon, there has been widespread problems with
the quality and quantity of data which has generally been of little value for effective project monitoring or
management. The fundamental problem has been insufficient data at the planning and detailed design
stage of MIPs (particularly hydrology and structure foundation conditions) and an almost total lack of
diagnostic reporting and evaluation. In addition, documentation on completed works has been either
incomplete or insufficient - the major reason why the safety of most MIP dams remains unknown. It is
concluded that because of poor monitoring and reporting, many project shortomings were not recognized
until the situation became critical. The CWC should have focused on this issue since they were
responsible for project monitoring under the Credit.
1.25 There are some indications that the importance of information gaps on project implementation and
performance has started to be recognized by GOVDO0. Early in 1987, CWC/GOO responded to
growing IDA. concerns and made attempts to improve its mitoring of the project. The SCMC was
strengthened by putting it under the chairmanship of the Chief Secretary of GOO. However, these actions
were too late and could not be fully effective because they depended on GOQ/ID having reliable
information available for review. It is concluded that M&E will not be improved in Orissa until staff
perceive that GOO and ID management view M&E as useful (through feedback) and essential (through
accountability for quality and quantity of data).
Projec Results
1.26 Intducimn. The project was conceived as a time slice operation. It was predicted under the
Orissa I Project that typical MIPs would take 5 years to fully complete with an overlapping 4 to 8 years to
fully develop the land and agriculture. The actual implementation period of a typical MIP is now likely to



-7-
average at least ten years. The component to start construction on 6 new MIPs remained inactive because
IDA support depended on completion of at least 10 on-going MIPs. The project costs (detailed in
Annex 1) for on-going MIPs have steadily risen over the project period from about Rs. 2415 M at
appraisal (including contingencies) to about Rs. 3925 M at Credit closure, an increase of some 46 per
cent. However, estimated costs of individual MIPs have shown substantial overruns (up to 190%)
reflecing on the quality of the original planning and design and the CWC appraisal process. The progress
in financial terms has been much slower than antcipated in financial (dollar equivalent) terms as reflected
by the cancellaion of about US$ 48.0 M of the Credit.
1.27 MIPs. The command area of the 18 on-going MIPs was estimated at about 108,000 ha at IDA
appraisal and revised to about 113,800 ha once the actual schemes were designed. In December 1987,
IDA reported that none of the 18 on-going MIPs were fully complete and able to function as designed
with some 10 MIPs substantialy complete. However, GOO reported in March 1988 that 9 MIPs were
complete and if funds are made available, all on-going MIPs would be comnpleted by March 1992. As of
March 1988, GOO has also reported that irrigation works have been completed to serve some 41,950 ha
(38%) compared to 25,000 ha recorded as irrigated at IDA appraisal (kharif 1983). About 56,000 ha
were reported as irrigated in the khrif/rabi crop years through 1987/88 giving an average cropping
intensity of about 50 percent. MIPs which are substantially complete are reported to have average
irrigated crop intensities of about 125% compared to about 137% assumed at appraisal. What this means
in terms of agricultural production is not known, since there is no reliable performance data on the quality
or quantity of the irigation service or irrigated crp yields. However, circumstantial evidence gathered by
IDA review missions indicates that average crop yields may be less than predicted at appraisal, particularly
for crops other than paddy. Average crop yields are also likely to fall when water becomes more scarce as
the full command areas of MIPs are brought under irrigation. Some 24,120 ha (21% of total project area)
have still to be cleared and developed for agriculture. About 3,220 families are still to be resetded once
new reservoir areas are flooded, but generally the resettlement proram has progressed satisfactorily with
1,480 families resetded to date. On average, about 85% of the main works are reported as complete,
together with some 40% of the ninor canal works to watercourse leveL There is insufficient data to fully
assess how the various technical problems will effect project impact or why cost estimates have inceased
so substantially for some schemes.
1.28  ae ReEvaluadon. There is insufficient data to calculate the financial rate of return, or the
impact of the project on poverty alleviation. The PCR analysis of the ERR is at best indicative, reflecting
a similr judgement at the I)A appraisal of the project and in the PCR of the Orissa I project (1984). The
PCR analysis has been based on full development of the schemes assuming that GOO completes the work
program to the latest schedule and at cost esdmates made available to IDA in March 1988. This is
probably optimistic. It also assumes that project lessons learnt to date will be effectively applied and that
G0T/C WC/GOO will take appropriate and timely actions (particularly related to technical issues such as
dam safety, MIP opeation and water management). This is also probably optimistic. Consequendy, a
sensitivity analysis has been undertaken to test the project viability ff GOO is not able to resolve the
project problems as planned. The re-evaluated ERR for the project MIPs is given in Table 6 (Part III),
detailed in Annex 1 of Part III and is summarized below:
Evaluation                                ERR
All 18 MEPs  Range for individual MIPs
SAR                                        14.0%          7.7% to 23.9%
PCR    (i) Base Case (no future problems)   9.8%          5.8% to 20.1%
(ii) 75% Benefits                  7.0%           3.5% to 15.4%
(iii) Underfunding of O&M           5.3%          2.0% to 12.6%
(iv) Ineffective Management        6.0%           2.4% to 13.5%
1.29  Ras of Retum. The PCR has taken the reestimated ERR of the MlPs under the project as that
likely to reflect the future perfomance of 000. It is concluded that the reestimated ERR for the 18 on-
going MlPs would reflect the 'ineffective management' case (item (iv) above) and thus average about
6.0 % for all MIPs compared to 14.0% at appraisal. The re-evaluated ERR for the individual MIPs are
likely to range from 2.4% to 13.5%. Only 3 MIPs would have ERRs that exceed 10%.



- 8 -
1.30 The PCR re-evaluation has also shown that even if GOO could deliver the project following the
assumptions implicit in the SAR, the best likely impact for the 18 MIPS would be an ERR of about 9.8%
compared to 14% estimated at appraisal. The shortfall resulting from project performance up to Credit
closure were due to unforeseen technical or physical problems (still to be more fully evaluated). lhese
have either substantially increased costs or decrased the potential irrigated areas. The general shortfall in
ERR conpared to that evaluated at appaisal (and the PCR of the Orissa I Project) reflects the many
problems and potential risks identified at appraisal which were not successfully resolved. The main
determinants causing these problems include: (i) substantial cost ovemms; (ii) an implementation period to
ful development of about double that assumed at IDA (and CWC) appraisal; (iii) ineffective water
management; (iv) delays in forest and land clearance and agricultural development; and (v) slower dtan
expected response to rabi irrigation, particularly for crops other than paddy.
1.31  There is insufficient data to evaluate the impact of the land consolidation (LC) componen, but the
target area to be consolidated was achieved. However, fragmented land holdings have been a serious
constraint to efficient land use in Orissa and aU indications are that the LC program has been successfuL
Long term, the LC program should generate substantial benefits. Short term, the lack of coordination
with OFD will limit the impact. The on-farm development (OFD) component has been less than
successful, primaily because technical objectives of OFD were not fully understood and it was ratd as
a target oriented construction program. The impact of OFD depends on the successful intoduction of
rotational water supply, or at least more efficient management of the major irrigation schemes in which the
OFD works were undertaken. This has not happened because of the practical difficulty of treadng one
part of a major scheme differently from the rest of a command area (i.e. allocatng water supplies to reflect
new cropping patterns). It is therefore concluded that few benefits will be achieved from the ORD
component.
1.32 Other ProRect Resus. The institutional strengthening of GOO departments/agencies through
training and other facilites were less than successful. The 000/ID) interest in the component is reflected
by negligible disbursements under the Credit category (Part UT, Table 5 B&C). The institutional
strengthening components have made little impact. There is no record of any achievements under the
research and development (R&D) acdvity, primarily because capable ID staff were not interested in R&D
which is considered to be a career dead end. Specialized training through technical assistance and the
establishmentof a modest R&D and training facility may have a marginal impact There was virually no
pogress in the nmodemizaton of the ID central design office mainly because speaized staff were not
readily available, lack of budgetary provisions by GOO for equipment and facilities, and a general lack of
prionty within the ID.
Prject Sustainability
1.33 Te project will not be sustainable unless many institutional and technical issues identified during
the last year of the Credit penod are addressed and resolved. GOJ/CWC/GOO must give the simil
priorities to delivering project benefits as it does to the investment phase under irrigation development.
Schemes need to be venfied and certified as functional before being handed over to O&M authoities. If
the original design does not work, history has shown that it is unlikely to be xecdfied at some future date -
unless the project is rehabilitated under planned expenditures. The ID must be provided with sufficient
funds, staff and resources so that MIPs can be completed, remedial or dam safety works undertaken, and
for O&M to be efficient. For MIPs to be sustained in remote and isolated areas, designs may have to be
simplified (even sacrificing irrigation efficiency) so that site staff can understand and apply appropriate
operadng principles. Fnally, there needs to be much stronger coordination between the agencies
responsible for the irrigation service and delivering agriculural benefits. Formunately, there are some
signs that GOQ/ID has recognized the importance of completing and sustaining the project and is believed
to have initiated some of the necessary actions.
Bank Performance
1.34 Project Preparation. The State of Orissa is one of the poorest in India and needed IDA support for
the irrigation subsector if irrigation development was to be quickly expanded through the State. The line-



-9 -
of credit' approach, although necessary for IDA to support construction of many scattered MIPs, was
clearly premature given the institutional capability of the GOO agencies and CWC (with respect to this
project). Nonetheless, IDA had reason to assume that a follow-up project would be successful given the
efforts put into the Orissa I Project. However, the risk of GOO not being able (or willing) to deliver on
the policy issues should have been better recognized at the preparation stage, given the problems already
developing under the Orissa I Project. In particular, the preparation unalistically assumed that (OO
would take the hard policy decisions related to sensitive issues such as insdtutional strengthening and
manpower, budget provision for non-planned expenditures, and general improvements in the bureaucratic
procedures. The preparation also underestimated the difficulty in GOO delivering on many non-
construction activities. In addition, a critical preparation assumption was that CWC could effectively
appraise MIPs and monitor project implementaton performance (para 1.55). Strong CWC supervision
was essential to the project success and yet CWC performance under the Orissa I Project should have
identified the risks involved.
1.35  Apaisal. The practical difficulties of delivering the project objectives in isolated regions of the
State were underrated, particularly with respect to institutional capability at field/scheme level. Most risks
were conrecdy identified but treated as project specific. Many risks were really generic subsector issues.
The project success depended on the strengthening of weak technical departments without any deep
evaluation of why the institutions were weak. It also depended on a basic change in GOO/II attitude
towards iigation subsector development, namely to focus on irigated agricultural development rather
than implementing civil work programs. IDA should have given more attention to performance problems
under the Orissa I Project and the other on-going IDA supported project in Orissa. The real status of on-
going MIPs (including other MIPs in Orissa outside the IDA program) should have been established
before supporting the new project. For example, there should have been serious questions on why costs
of on-going MIPs could not be established with any certainty seven years after the start of Orissa I
Project. This should have indicated that basic planning and design of MIPs (and thus CWC appraisals)
needed to be critically reexamined. Introduction of RWS operating principles should have been
conclusively demonstrated on at least one existing MIP befo'e being put forward for the project. It is
concluded that more atiention should have been given to the causes of the problems under the Orissa I
Project before appraising a follow up operation. The signal given to the Borrower in the rapid processing
the foliow-up operation (and confirmed in the PCR and PPAR of the first stage) was that IDA believed
that the
'line-of-credit' approach was working.
1.36 There is evidence that some conditionalities proposed under the IDA appraisal did not survive the
negotations stage, partly because of Bank pressure to minimize the number of project covenants in legal
agreements. In particular, the appraisal recomwnended a mid-term project review which was not
supported. An important conditionality which did survive was that disbursements on the 6 new MIPs
would depend on substantial completion of at least 10 on-going MIPs. Consequendy no new MIPs were
start  In addition, important conditions of disbursement were included in the Schedule 1 of the
Development Credit Agreement requiring that Certificates of Completion of irrigation canal systems be
issued for each MIP before withdrawals could be made for minor canal systems and land consolidation
within MEP conmands. These agreements were not rigidly enforced (para 1.58).
1.37 Sudervision. The supervision perfonnance of WDA was at best mixed. It ranged from almost
complacency in the first two years after Credit effectiveness when the project was rated as having
'moderate' problems, yet none of the ten dated covenants were fully met on time. There were also a
series of generic subsector problems related to forest clearance, land acquisition and MIP operation which
were not being tackled. Lengthy supervision reports were prepared which did not focus on the real
problems or issues. For example, the lack of an active Dam Safety Review Panel and the quality of MIP
planning and design were treated as irritations rather than basic problems. On the other hand, relatively
minor technical issues were reported in exhaustive detail, as was physical and financial progress when the
data base was obviously inadequate. A major shortcoming in the first year of project supervision was
inadequate attention to performance of the new components and Credit conditionalides which resulted
from lessons learnt under the Orissa I Project. An important recommendation in the PPAR of Orissa I
Project which was overlooked, was the need for a project impact evaluation. In fact, there is no
convincing evidence that the PPAR findings were really followed up under project supervision. It is



- 10-
concluded that undl about 1986, the project was supervised to standards and norms which were generally
accepted throughout the Indian irigation subsector at that time. However, this intensity of supervision
did not met the requirements of the project for a State such as Orissa.
1.38 Once the project was subject to more focused supervision, there was an increasing frustration with
the lack of action by GOO/CWC on issues cridcal to project success. In May 1987, the project was
justifably rated a problem project and remained such until Credit closure. It is undendable that
GOV/GOO found it difficult to read the Bankes position since CWC ap,paed to be satisfied with project
progress. In fact, G00/ID and CWC became increasingly bewildered that a whole range of problems had
suddenly been designated serious by IDA after almost a decade into the 'line-of-credif operation.
1.39 The supervision of the dam safety issue (para 1.14) deserves special mention because of the
seriousness of the problem and the way it was handled. IDA was becoming increasingly concerned about
the implementation quality of IDA supported projects throughout the irrigation subsector. Special
attention was given to Orissa II Project because of the reported poor quality of civil works, the large
number of dams under the project, and nominal compliance with the covenant that GOO would maintain a
Dam Safety Review PaneL A high-level and independent Dam Review Mission (DRM) was sent to
Orissa by IDA three months before the Credit closing date. The technical findings of the DRM were
thorough and professional. However, a DRM recommendation of extensive 'independent' consultancy
(723 man months) with international recognized experience resulted in confrontation with GO which
could not be resolved in the time frame left under the Credit. The DRM diagnsis was sound but the
bed treatment could not be accepted in India (para 1.56).
1.40  IDA had two main agendas with respect to dam safety - dam safety as a subsectorissue and the
more narrow problems widtin Orissa. An underlying concem for IDA was a more general issue of quality
control and construction standards. The visibility of the dam safety issue at national leveL particularly
related to CWC, ensured that project problems got entangled in much broader national issues on dam
safety and quality control. These national issues did not have to be resolved under a tight project time
frme. It is concluded that the visibility of dam safety issues and sensitivity to the recommended use of
extenal technical assistance at the national level, domiinated the last few months before the Credit closing
date. Mixing national and project issues hampered GOO in its attempts to take the required actions, not
only related to dam safety, but also more general project problems. The outcome has been that GOO and
the project may have lost out when there were encouraging signs that GO/IID were at least reconizing
the problems and trying to do something about them.
1.41 Lessons Lar. This project appears to be a classic case of IDA committing itself to a follow-up.
operation without fully evaluating an on-going operation which had strong indications of basic problems.
It is concluded that a subsector type operadon for medium irrigation development in a poor State such as
Orissa was premature in 1977 when the first Orissa Irrigation Project was appraised. IDA considered the
project as a subsector operation, while GOO and CWC treated it as a specific investment project. The ID
tread the project as a civil works construction progrm with little interest in obtaining the potential
benefits. With these Perceived differences in project concept between IDA and GO1GOO, project
problems inevitably followed as IDA stayed with a 'dme slice' concept which became increasingly less
realistic. For example, IDA underesimated a key project risk that successful implementation and
sustainability of MIPs would depend on effective and coordinated institutions. The institutional capabiliW
for effective irrigated agrcultural development did not exist at appraisal and is still a basic problem (para
1.47). Solutions to many project problems depended on the willingness of GOO to address difficult
subsector and statewide issues which could not be resolved at project level. It is also clear that the project
was seriously under-supervised during the critical period just after Board approval. The line-of-credit'
operation needed strong supervision during the initial implementation stages to confirm that GOO and
CWC understood their commitments and obligations and had the resources to function effectively. It is
therefore not surprising that many problems developed unchecked and the project diverted from the
appraisal plan. Fnally, the way this Credit was closed was an unsatisfactory situation after more than a
decade of IDA support to a necessary project in a poor State - and with the basic issues at last identified
but unresolved. It may have been worth IDA staying with the project for one more year, if for nothing
else to continue the dialogue with GOI/CWC/G0O on the lessons leant.



- 11 -
BoQwer,,stnce
1.42  The project perfonrance reflects similar problems which have affected line-of-credit irigation
development operations in other States of India. The Borrower's priorty has been construction activities
with insufficient attention as to obtaining benefits through increased agncultumal production. There has
been no real accountability for project performance since the department spending the money (Irigation
Department ) is not responsible for delivering the benefits (Agriculture). Lack of attention to project
development impact has meant no urgency to address the c     of prHblems which have dominated the
Borrower's poor performance through the project period.
1.43  frmowed's Strenths. Clearly the project has not performed as envisaged at appraisal but many
of the problems could notbe tackled at a specific project leveL. Theexception to this has been the land
consolidation component which was implemented in a sensitive and effective way and was probably more
successful than any sinilar program in India. Perhaps the most encouraging outcome has been that
GOU1CWC/GOO have stated to recognize the significance of the lessons leamt, not only for the project
but through the irrigation subsector.
1.44  Lejjsj        The main lessons to be learnt by the Borrower relate to: (i) local funding and the
budgetary process; (ii) institutional capability, responsibility and accountability and project coordination;
(iii) manpower and terms of employment, (iv) the role of technical assistance; (v) planing and design
and appropriate technologyr, (vi) completing development and sustaining irrigation schemes; (vii)
monitoring and reporting; and (viii) the need for diagnostic evaluation. ITere are also important lessons
to be learnt related to the CWC role under the project (para 1.55).
1.45  LAl Funding and the Budga,   Process. Lack of local funding for key activities has been an
mportant project constraint, particularly for non-planned expenditures related to institutional
sengthening. 011GO    agreed to essential components related to strengthening the ID but did approve
the local funding, even for items fuly supported by IDA. Budget commitments were generally based on
statewide norms and decided at a Government level which was isolated flDm any deep understanding of
the problems or requirements of a specific project - particularly for a project with many scattered schemes.
It is concluded that the budgetary process has been seen by GOO  primarily as an instrument to allocate
fands and to control annual spending. The budgetary process has not been viewed or used as an essential
tool of management to control and direct project performance.
1.46  Insitutional Performanc. Many officers in the ID project staff and the CWC demonstrated
dedication and produced good results under difficult cdcumstances. However, individual efforts could
not resolve th basic institutional problems - neither could the IDA financing for institutional strengthening
which was not utilized. Most implementation shortomings stemmed from meffective project
organization, burdensome bureaucratic procedures and resource constraints. It is recognized that basic
improvements or changes to organizations are extremely difficult to make in any Indian state because any
basic changes would have statewide and politcal implications. However, if the development of the
rigation subsector in Orissa is to be successful, GOO needs to substandally improve the ID performance.
As a first step, GOO should thoroughly evaluate the costs to the State of the insitutional problems,
identify the causes of the problems and prepare a realistic plan of action.
1.47 Ihe project developmental impact (and the GOO inigadon subsector) depended on effective
coordination and cooperation between the technical departments responsible for irrigadon, agriculture and
other related activities. Through project implementain, coordinadon has not been effective, and in
paricular, the worlcing relationship between irigation and agriculture has been nominaL The SCMC had
litde impact in its task as the authority responsible for project coodination. Generally each organization
followed its own budget provision, program and priorites d functioned as if each project acty was
self-contained. It is concluded that coordination is weak because the main interest of departments relates
to expenditures on target oriented programs with marginal interest in the impact of their progrms. GOO
should also better define responsibility with accountability for obtaining acceptable project perfiomance



- 12-
1.48 SWfig. Present terms and conditions of Government employment are not attractive enough to
place and keep qualified staffin remote areas or in jobs not perceived as benefiting a career. This would
include all MIP locations under the project and almost all activites in the ID which critically neea to be
strengthened (i.e. planning and design, M&E, investgatons, hydrology and R&D). Inability to provide
staff incentves, limited career prospects and insufficient resources, all contribute to the staffing problems.
Staff want to be located where they can live to reasonable standards. Poorly paid national staff are not
motvated by project performance, but too often, the need to supplement their Govemment incomes. The
preferred actvity of professional staff is construction of large works since most staff see the ID pnrmarily
as a constructon agency. The ID staffing problems are compounded by frequent transfers, nearly total
job security and no real accountability for perfornance. Staff morale is also affected by limited,
unpredictable and often ineffective support for a specific project It is concluded that if the ID is to
become an effective organization, the basic issues related to staffing must somehow be addressed by
Government.
1.49 Planning and Design. A core problem which has affected both this project (and since 1977 when
IDA started to support a 'line-of-credit' operation in Orissa) has been the poor project planning and
design. GOO/ID have entered into the implementation stage of MIPs (and probably other irrigation
projects) when they are still at the reconnaissance or (at best) the feasibility stage of planning. The one
partial exception is the preferred engineering activity of designing dam and other large stuctures. Even in
this respect, there is seldom sufficient investigation data (particularly hydrology) to safely move to
detailed design of a major structure. All project MIPs entered the construction stage before designs were
complete. This has greatly increased the project risks and has inevitably led to disappointing project
impact. Many MIPs cost substantially more than predicted at appraisal and it has been virtually
impossible for the ID to prepare realistic work programs when the works were not designed in detaiL
1.50  Irrigaion Technology. A disconcerting fact is that the operation of substantially complete MIPs
do not follow the agreed design principles, namely rotational water supply (para 1.19). In fact, the RWS
principles have not yet been effectively introduced anywhere in Orissa, including the pilot water
management component of the Mahanadi Barrages Project (Cr. 1082-IN, 1981) which has been
underway since about 1981. One reason for this seems to be lack of understanding and support for RWS
within the ID, since RWS requires a level of discipline which apparendy cannot be enforced on most
isolated MIPs. The ID needs to thoroughly evaluate what is the appropriate technology and operaing
principles for MIPs. In particular, the ID should assess whether the operating principles inherent in the
design of isolated schemes are practical. Whatever operating principles are finally adopted for MIPs, they
must be demonstrated as workable with the staffimg and resources likely to be available on isolated sites.
In addition, the ID should evaluate why few (if any) MIPs have explicit operational plans that can be
understood and used by typical site staff and also why water management plans (WMPs) have proved of
little value.
1.51 Compledng Developmntj. None of the MIPs have demonstrated that they are complete and fully
developed and thus are ab- to deliver predicted benefits. A basic problem has been that too many MIPs
were started about the same tme, with implementaton concentrated on main civil works (ie. dams and
main canals). The result has been that funding and insttutonal resources have been spread too thinly.
This pracdse has persisted because there is not specific accountability for project performance either of the
irrigation service or agricultural production. Since there is little urgency to deliver benefits, there has been
lack of commitment (and thus funding) to complete nmnor distribution works (particularly watercourses)
after the main contracts are completed There are no reliable procedures to verify and certify that MIPs
can work (and be managed) as designed. Land and forest clearance have also delayed and complicated
completion of MPs. Ineffective O&M, uncoordinated agricultural development and weak extension
services have meant that the irrigation services are not efficiently utilized. If the Borrower can resolve
these problems, irrigation impact in Orissa could be substantially improved at relatively little cost
1.52 Monitoring and Reporting. A major problem through the project history has been lack of reliable
monitoring and reporting. Most project reporting was restricted to unreliable information on physical and
financial progress of either schemes or individual contracts with little useful data on perfonnance of
investments. Data collected by ID (and CWC) were seldom reviewed in detail or checked for quality or
quantity. The agricultual agencies have collected litfle useful data related to the project and thus there is



- 13 -
still no reliable data on iTrigated crop yields. Monitoring and reporting was supported under the project
yet nominal progress was made. It is concluded that the situation will not improve until Govenment
treats monitoting and evaluation as essendal activities.
1.53 Diagnostic Analysis. A fundamental lesson to be learnt by the GOT/CWC/GO0O should be the lack
of diagnostic analysis of both project inplementation and impact. The ID (and the CWC) should
undertake regulary evaluations of project implementadon perfomance and prject impact and of their
institutional capability. For much of the project period, the causes and consequences of most project
problems could not established with any certainty. It seems that avoidance of diagnostc analysis is
deeply ingrained in the public sector organizations since such analysis (and reliable data) would enable
accountability for performance. Nonetheless, diagnostic analysis must be intoduced if the enormous
investments in the rrigation subsector are to be effective and efficient.
1.54 Technical Assistance. After more than a decade of IDA support in Orissa, the capability of the ID
has shown little or no imprvement. GOQ/ID have agreed that the organization needs to be resucured
and modernized if it is to function effectively. It is concluded that this process cannot take place unless
there is some input from outside the organization. Most staff have served in the ID since they started their
careers and have only experienced the bureaucratic procedures and practices and technical standards of the
State. It is concluded that unless the ID seeks technical assistance, there is no way the present
shortcomings will be resolved or even fully identified. GOO will continue to get less than satisfactory
impact from its investments in irrigation. The perfonmance of CWC also indicates that it would benefit
from technical assistance in certain areas (para 1.55). However, for this project, GOI rejected extemal
technical assistance on principle without evaluating the substance of the issue. The GOO/ID and CWC
have great latent strengtha amongst its dedicated staff. What is lacing is an input from outside to advise
and start the necessary esbcntial changes. The basic question for GO/GO is how it can expect an
introvert and weak institution such as the ID to improve without assistance from outside the organizadon.
Whether technical assistance is external or internal to India is an important but separate issue.
1.55 Role gf CW The CWC has made a major contribution to water resource development in India
and remains a model for an apex organization which would gready benefit most other Bomwers
supported by the Bank in the irrigation subsector. Yet under this project, the performance of CWC was
less than satisfactory. The CWC role to appraise MIPs and monitor project progress was crucial to the
success of a line-of credit operation, particularly in Orissa. However, the Appraisal Committee set up in
CWC was never given the skilled staff or resources to effectively supervise the project Dedicated staff
within CWC clearly tred to do the job but bureaucratic constraints, lack of rsources and support, and the
inability of CWC staff to influence policy makers in the State all contributed to a weak performance. A
major problem for CWC has been (and stiUl is) the poor standard of preparadon of MIPs sent for
appraisal. Most MIP preparsmtions were incomplete and based on a limited and unreliable data base. Some
6 to 10 years after MIPs were appraised by CWC, designs of many sub-projects have still not finalized,
there are persistent concerns over dam safety, the operadng principles of MEPs are still to be translated
into workable plans, and there is no certainty as to project costs. This has meant that CWC has had to
supervise implementation of MIPs still at the design stage, with all of the problems of accommodating a
time bound work program It is concluded that if the CWC had enforced the agreed IDA standards for
preparation of MIPs, few if any MIPs would have been accepted at appraisal. Unfortunately, it is not
usually possible for CWC to reject projects which have been poorly prepared when they are politcally
inportant to a State. It is recommended that before GOT (or IDA) give CWC a similar role under a line-
of-credit' operation, they should thoroughly assessed what can reasonably be expected from CWC as it is
presently constituted and staffed.
Proiec Relationfshp
1.56 Through the project period, the Bank/Borrower relationship was generaly productive. At the
working level in CWC and GOO, there was always a readiness to address the issues and attempt to
resolve the problems. As would be expected when problems became politically sensitive (i.e. dam
safety), the Bank/Borrower relationship became more formal and strained. GO/GOO and the
departnents involved in Orissa were also understandably anxious when less than satidsctory perfofmance
had to be addressed. However, a considerable amount of effort was spent by GOI defending general



- 14-
issues on principle rather than substance of the project problems. This has complicated project
relationships because project problems got entangled with national subsector issues. An example has
been the treatment of the dam safety and the related issue of external technical assistance. The Bank's
agenda on dam safety was simple - IDA wanted to be assured that the dams were safe for the well-being
of the population living below the structures. The 0OO/ID shared this concer, but obviously had to
consider the political sensitivity of any quesdons related to dam safety. The CWC had the additional
problem of having to deal with two agendas in an extremely tight time frame - to tackle project supervision
as agreed under the Credit and also consider the implications of the dam safety problems on their national
credibility and accountability. Another difficulty which affected pxoject relationships has been that issues
such as external technical assistance are debated at GOI level on principle. This approach often strained
project relationships because to eliminate any useful dialogue on the substance of critical issues,
particularly in the difficult peiod prior to the Credit closing date
Proj Docunientation and Data,
1.57 The SAR and legal documents provided a comprehensive and detailed framework for IDA and
GOI/CWCJC;OO during implementation. The conditionalities in the Project Agreement covered most of
the issues which eventually became serious problems under the project. The Minutes of Negotiations
wvere extensive and indicate that each of the core conditionalities had been discussed in detail by those
attending negotiations. It is understandable that the documentation prior to Credit effectiveness appeared
sufficient to successfully implement the project However, the appraisal documentation underestimated
the risks and overestimated G000s ability to strengthen the ID and address the problems and issues
already evident under the on-going Orissa I Project. During project implementation, the documentation
and data was generally less than satisfactory. Some of the IDA supervision was not sufficiently focused,
CWC generally produced superficial monitonng reports and GOO/ID had a basic problem with respect to
monitoring and reporting throughout the project period. Lack of reliable infomation was the dominant
reason why many project issues became serious problems.
1.58 Cpmpliance with Covenants. The Borrower did not fully comply with most of the project
covenants and none of the dated covenants were fully met on time. The main problem has been that
GOVGOO appeared to have entered into many project covenants which were extremely difficult for the
project authorites to deliver (to IDA's satisfaction) when political determinants had to be taken into
accountL Many key project covenants were not project specific and had subsector or statewide
implications (ie. local funding; provisions for 0&M; institutional strengthening; provision of qualified
staffimg; and cost recovery). Full compliance with these covenants was generally beyond the control of
individual departments/agencies since they involved statewide policy issues. It also seems that IDA and
Borrower (both 001 and GOO) may have had different understandings as to what specifically was
expected under the covenants even though all were carefully drafted and explicit. A disconcering fact is
that many covenants were not full complied with by G01/GOO through a decade of IDA support in
Orissa. Yet for most of the time, IDA showed little real concern It is concluded that if IDA expects the
Borrower to take covenants seriously, IDA must be prepared to enforce them.
Conclusions.
1.59 The project has been less than successfuL The lessons to be learnt from this project are important
and numerous, but most can only be resolved if GOU O0 is able to akle the underlying cause of most
problems, namely institutional weakness. IDA can assist in this process but not through the 'band-aid'
components to strengthen institutions. Ihe ir.igation subsector approach in India has been for IDA to
support projects with improved 'efficient' technology on the assumption that responsible institutions can
be strengthened to match the technology. The results have been disappointing as illustated by the
performance of this project It is concluded that a less risky approach would be to support operaions
carefully fonrulated to reflect the existing institutional capability.



- 15-
PART 1: PROJEC' REVIEW IRBM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(The Borrower was requested to provide a review, but none was received.)



ORISSA IRRTGATION n PROIW (t 1Xn-
Bm               ii aw
LANo,    :Lhk                         Pu Yem
682-N       Orissa Agricult         Stregth agiukura sporting                    1977            Compled            Stae-wideoperation.
Delopwmn                servic  particularly tension and
w*eseem
740-IN      Osarrigan               rum aslice ofnmedium irigation schemes.      1977            Completd           First ste ofproject undr review.
command area developmenL
80B-IN      Oujat Mediun            Improve peformance of MPs  trough            1980            Completed          Siilar line of credit opern to Orisa riaion I project
Iigaio (1)              new plbmhi, design consiuction mnd                                             with CWC responsie for  raisal ead supvis
O&M cneia.L
843-IN      Hiyana rriato  (1)      bmovam  to irrgatin system                   1980           Completed           Focus was mnwr irgaion systes with rtatoa wae
ma _agenent; lidng watcouse channels.                                          suply and rdated imp lmentio and manmet poblm
1082-IN      Ma    i Ba7Sges        Consrctko of two new bawrages on the         1981           Completd            Olir Baik supported    ao project mn Orissa durin
Mahmnadi Rive and wawe mooanagmen                                                 project period Watfr management Pilot reslt reported to
pilot cmmponet.                                                                be used on project
1108-lN     MP Madium               rime slice of mediun irrigation             t981            Compkled            Simil  in concept and objecives to Oris  brigo  11 with 
Iriguaion               deveoepropgam                                                                  CWC appraisal and supevision
1289-IN     Subi ekha               Provide iable water supply to inrigate       1983           Completed          Tri-state opertion with State of Orissa as one of befitng
Irrigation              25QOO O        hsha wnd*r ilustiaLsnd munci                                    Staes.
users; flood control an Onssa and West
Bengal.
1319-lN     Haryanlbrigationl        mprovement o inor m iuigation sysems        1983           On going            Sminar war matamt concept as for Onssa B Pject;
wih rottional water supply; intiouonAl                                         a follow up to Hayana Irigaion I (Cr. 843-IN)
1523-IN     Natinl Agrcula          Mult-state (subsector) opaton to             1985           On going           One of benefting sta  is Orissa
Extension I             impove aricultual extesion svices.
1770-IN     Natiol Wat              Cp             an iw ement to existin        1988           on-going            o tneu  inigae a8iulud  prodon thraough rmed
Manageme_t Project     irigationm schmeu  istituional                                                  wors man     d n t     seg      . nodn concepas
strengtening *i'th focus on operatiot                                          that have couny-wide ppcand rct typicld
We manaem      t, and Utrng.                                                   istutioa capability of stain    tmion departents
1/     Only penject relatd to Oriss Irrition II Project ame listed
S Iii
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* r 



- 17-
km~~~~~s
RSSA IRIGATION 11 PROECT (iit 13,97-T'
Table 2: hisct:Ib lu
Date                     Date
Planned                   Acu
-  Identification             August 1982              August 1982
-  Preparation/Preappraisal       NA                       NA
- Appraisal Mission             9/12/82                  9/12/82
-  Lon Negodations              May 1983                 5/16/83
-  Board Approval                6121/83                  7/7/83
-  Loan Signature                1/30/84                 9/16/83
-  Loan Effectiveness            5/1/84                  12/14/83
-  Loan Completion               3/31/87                 3/31/88
-  Loan Closing                 12/31/87                 3/3U88
The Project was conceived as a second 'time slice' of the Orissa Irrigation I Project
(Ln. 720-IN, 1977, US$ 58.0 M) to continue the on-going medium irigation program.
There was no formal identification/preparation missions with these activities covered under
expanded supervision of the first stage project. The justification for the second time slice
was the need to address constraints/problems identified under the first project and to
complete the on-going MIPs stared under Orissa Irrigation L
Table 3: Loa Disbusnnt-/
Fiscal Year
1983      1984    1985    1986      1987      1988
--SDR M-----_
ARM"EStimat                6.0       24.9    50.6    77.6      97.1    (97.1)
Acual                      0.0        9.4    25.3    44.0      57.9     59.2
Acnal asofEiat=            -         38%     50%      57%      59%      61%
1/ The amount of the Credit was SDR 97.1 million; the undisbursed balance of SDR 35.9
million was cancelled. Dat- of Final Disbursement was 12/13/88 on recovery of
balance in the Special Acomunt.



INI1A
ORISSA lRGATION I PROJECr (Credit 1397-IN'
Pto  iec  anetadoe I/
Appraisd     Revised       Acual
1ndicatUs                         Ea~uxL       E~unsIimat_  PCR    Vtc    Comments
(unit)   %
Irrigable ona (ha)                 108,000      110070    47,410  (43%)   Area irrigated is xecorded as
geate han de area with
completed inigaion works.
Dams (No)                              18           18         13  72%       Noofdamsdesignatedas
comnplete by 0R0C03.
Construction Main System (ha)      108,000      110,070    79,500  (72%)
Consructo Minor Systen (ha)        108,000      110,070    41,950  (38%)
LandClmeance(ha)                      NA        24,123      14679  (61%)   Notsteaapraisal.
Rsettement (famlies)                  NA          4705       1480  (31%)   NotestitedatappraisaL
2.   New MIN (No)                             6             -          -  0%       Excluded fiSm the project4. 
3.   LandConWUdaf= (ha)                  160,000            -   160,000  100%      PCRestiinaeofactual 
performance.
4.   On-Farm PaDkXnnent (ha)              48,000            -    53,640  112%      No breakdown of works
under component.
5.    R&D, Training, Technical
Assistane, M&E (SDR M)              930               -         4 (negligible) Costs where 100%
supported; pefna
indaor taken as categoy
disbursement.
NM
1/ Based on prject progress rep  of 3f31/88. Previous supervision reports indicates that performance data may be opimistic. The
perfance indicatr does not reflect a consdable amount of remedil works believed to be necessary to make MIPs fully
orational.
2/ Perentages in brckets relate 000 reported progress to revised estmate of project imgated area
31 The IDA Dam Safety Review of November 1987 concludes that most dams need additional or remedial work to be designated as safe.
A/ The 6 new MIPs were included under the project conditional on completion of 10 on-going MPs. This was not achieved so the
component was not started.
/ No data available of what was achieved under the project, since the component was 100% supported under the Credit, the actual  I-'
dibursement at Credit closure has been taken as the performance indicator.



ORISSA IRRIGATION II PRO1ECT (edit 1397-INM
Proict C9mupletim R=pr
Project Costs and Fiani
A - P>iec Costs
Estimate Total
(QWM=                              ExpendiUves                Pknec               A             In=l
azimto IEwjoc          rime Slice costsZ/
Lca    FC    Total    LIca    FC    Total                     &AtR W           CR5/
1. Medium                 Wal)on EMjo  (MPs)
On-goingMlPs                  -      -      11,3     93.5   12.6  106.1       271.2          284.3         413.2
New MIPsW                     -              -       13.7    1.9   15.6         -             NA            NA
2.  Axan AeaDevekg
Land Consolidation            -      -       -        8.8     -       8.8
On-Fann Deveopment            -      -       -        7.5    1.4    8.9
3. Research, Development and
Training                      -   NA         -        u        1                -               -
124.3   16.0  140.3                        NA           NA
1/ Expenditures on the 18 on-going MIPs supponed under Orissa rigation I Prnoject (Ln. 770-IN).
2( Estimated in SAR as of 12/31/82.
/ Actual expenditures as of 3/31/88, iwluding expenditures under first time slice.
b/ Tot costs to compledon of MIPs as estmated by 000 on 3131/88.
SI The SAR exchange rate of US$ 1.0 = Rs 9.50 has been used to enable compoison with SARL
6  Provision was made for 6 new MPs under dte project conditional on completion of 10 on-going MIPs. Since no MIPs were completed, the new
MlPs were not supported
i No breakdown for ocal and foreign costs are available for expenditures under project.
NA = Not available.
UI 1-
; .I.



ORISSA l}UUGATION II PROJECT (Credit I397-RN'
Parts B and C - CreditD  mentCai a      and Finamiing
&Mrc       Qumea                           Cofdtt                       Revised             Acs  tComments
USS        SDR        US$        SDR        US$ I      SDR
(A) 1
1. Qi 
A. Dams, Spfllways &
HeadRegulatos               45,000     41,610                           36,200     27,107
B. Main & Bnch Cnals            20,000     18,500                           30,310     22,617
C. Distribularies, Minor
Canals & ote Wors           25,000     25,000                            4,530      3,382
2. Equpenat& Vehiles                1,8C0       1,670                             190        144
3. R&D, Training, Tochnical
Assistance and Monitoing
J Evaluation                     1,000       930                                5          4
4. Land Consoldation                5900       5,450                            6,010      4,485
5. A. On-farn Devek3pmnt            2,300      2,120                            3,090      2,303
B. mnprovement to Canal
Sysemns for Land
Cosolidation  pact Ara       1,000        930                              -
6. UnmIocad30                                  222Q                              -
Suboal                         105,000                                      80,335     60,042
Amount CamneLed                                                             49.65S     37
Subtotal                       105,000     97,100                          129,990     97,100
(B) Dolames ((OGO0fo)
Subtotl                                                                                  NA
Tota                           140,600                                                    NA'
I/  he project desipto  inchld support of 6 e amIPs which wee excluded fivm the prect bcause none of th on-going MIPs
weeln  ped.                                                                                                                                 0t
21 As of 3/31/88 with adjusunent for setlermen of Special Account provision.
3/ Exchange ee assuned SDR 1.0  US$ 1.34 as of 3/3/1 988 toenable compaisonwidth SAR cos/Cwxdit aloctio.



-21-
Tabl,e 6f 
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT (Credit 1397-INT
jecto Q Py&eMonReF
Part A - Dirc Benei
Appaisa         Estmated at           Esdmated at
Indicator                      EsfEimte          Closing Da&I2mil
A.    ProIductionfOOO Tons) MI      s C      Dm           CAD       MIEC
Paddy                   80.0      59.1
W,',Zheat               33.7       7.2
Groundnut               20.1       6.5
No. of Beneficiaries;J
(Families)               70,000    30,000   26,200    33,500   (68,800)   (33,500)
Incnmnntal Fami
labor (M. Mandays)Y           8.64/     1.4               (0.3)      6.0       (0.3)
Inaeas in Eamil
Income (%)5y                160-200%           NA                  NA
hEign Exchange
Savings (US$M) 6/            46.0              NA                  NA
1/ EsFmated direct benefits at closing date and at full development for ididual schemes are
given in Annex 2. PCR esdmates shown in bracketL.
2/ In addidton, about 100,000 fanilies benefited from the land consoLon program which was
completed before Credit closure
3/ Based on weighted average of incremental fann labor of 54.7 man-day per ha in MIPs and 30
man-days per ha in CAD. The PCR has assumed that the 6 new MIPs included in the project at
appraisal would have commanded about 50,000 ha.
4/ The PCR concludes that the CAD works will have nominal impact
y Inecrease in family income not available.
fi Currency value of US$1.0 = Rps 9.50 is assumed. Foreign exchange savings have been taken
as the value of increased crop production.



- 22 -
Prt m
Ibb 6-B h C
INDIA
ORISSA IHRIGATION 11 PROJECr (Crdit 1397-IN
EFoJC Benfit
Pgrt B - Economic bVWVcA
Appraisal                      PCR
Economic Rat of Retin                      EsItimale                     istimake
AYMe       R=mge           )              Raw
Un"deryig Amoin
A.  MI
Status at Asal.
Completed                   1      15%         NA            13.5%
Partially Completed        11      13%      8% to 19%         6.6%       3.5% to 13.5%
Starting Consimcon          6      16%     11% to 24%         4.8%        2.4% to 7.4%
New                         6      16%         NA                       Elmnatd fiom Project.
Avere (weighted)              14%    8% to 24%             6%      2.4% to 13.5%
B. Ot2nveltg= 2
Coastal Areas                      48%        -
Non-coastal Areas                  47%        -
Avere                         48%
C.                                      19%
1/ See Annex 1, Table 6 for eimnated ERR of all on-going MIPa
21 Not available for PCR.
Pxut C - Financial linWact/
OnFr DevlgwJMen21
MIPs                   Hd Reach               bilReach
Ahmual Farm Income            sm            E                         EMSR
Posent (atappraisdw)           3030          NA           3250         NA        2200        NA
Futre without project (Rp)     4050          NA           4310         NA        2700        NA
Future with projct (Rp)        9190          NA           5800         NA        5800        NA
Inrse  due to project %       200%           NA            78%         NA       164%         NA
1/  In 1983 Rupees for LS ha farm uni.
2/ For 1.0 ha fanm at head and tail reach of major irrigation scheme.



- 23 -
IabJk6o
IDIA
ORISSA IRRAION H P ROJECT d.t 1327-]NW
Proiect Benefits
Part D. Sudies and Insdtudonal npr1
Purpose as
Studv     ~Defmned tAp aisS        Samu             bnoaof Studv/Cmmnuats
Dmn Safety           NA           Cmpleted Dcber   From about mid 1986, Bank supervion umions recorded
Review                            1987.                 inc       co     becau  GOO was not i compliance
with the am Satycovenat (Section 2.16 of the Project
Agreement). This obligated GOO to maintain a panel of
experts to review the design of dams and related sucues
and conduct peiodic reviews during design and construc-
tion. In September 1987, the Bank reined four world
rnouned expts (Team Leader/Dam Speciis, Soil
Foundation Expe,  Hydrlgst, and Dam Constructon
Expert to undtake a Status Survey of MIP dams under the
project. Ihe expers produced a comprehensive report
which ientfied a series of basic shoromings elated to
tlechnical (planning and design assumptons and stadards
and citera), managem en/l a                and
quality control issu  The conclusions were that all project
dams were (at best) of unknown safety and many had
elements which were unsafe. The IDA Dan Saf  Review
has made an iprant couty-wide contibuton to the issue
Ofdam safety in India.
1nfngoa          Applaisal and
Central Water   Appaisal of MIPs   Through al of the    A critica assw.nption at appis was tat the CWC woudd
Commissionl   and monitoring of   project period.       take responsibility for the direct supervision of the project
projecL                                 (since this was beyond the supervision resouces of the
Bank). The results were disapptig, primarily tecause
CWC never had the resouces to undetake their project
responsibilities in a satsfactory and thorough mamner. The
poor perfonnance by CWC was an impor reason why
project problems developed unchecked. With hindsight, it
was unreaistdc to expect CWC to fulfil the role (as it was
sewn and defined at appraisal) because of nationaVState
sensitivities and lack of staff and resources.
1/ Agreed with GOOIUO under Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement tugh a
project Appraisal Commtte within CWC. The CWC was responsible for appaia of each
MIP and supervisio of project implmnain and also OhM for at least tWO years after
completion ofoeach MI.



bs  -    8   2   .         8" Bl
|g~~ tgr [ ii ,0:0 !3 Pi
4{     X   l             X Lw{0
0 lEElblX,  S iU
g             .     t.        FFE~~~~~~~~~~~~H



- 25 -
Pem
Wak~
Secdio
Pwject        Summary Desipto                     Dae for
Ameamm           AOf LaM Condldn
PA       2.13                                                              NoS wbetantl meaes wmtare kaen extason
=      m tcou= mpiio f alch                       senico uns wo W
MIP.
PA        2.14(a)        Establsh and bitain a WALML  S30,  l             Jno_ c        qWAl    neds          r
PA       2.14(b)         Estbhlish and mai   &D CclL        Mach 31,1984  R&D Cleabisu      d b  inadequately stffed
with no clearespmnOisLbis
PA       2.14 (c)        Establish by and maintain R&D      June 30,1984   R&D TAC established but inacd
Tecnical Advismy Cocunues.
PA       2.14 (d)        R&Dprqeworkplansand                S        30,   Not cmplied witL
schedules for R&D and Trang          4
PA       2.15            Ensure cuality conul in design,                   Pai complac
ainsirucioand naineanaeofall
AMn.
PA       2.16 (a)        Manaapanelofexps           new                    Panel sablisd but inactivated for moat of
pI=W9 mand  du
sduring theirdesign and
PA        2.17 (a)       Establ shapoiateRotiol            October31,     Notcompliedwith; RYJScannot beapplied nth
tWaterSupjly (RWS) procedures ftx   1984          field Detaie  eiew    andreiosreued
Mhi
PA       2.17 (b)        Establish RWS pmcedures in         October31,     Not complid with but prbably not pacicaL
mleted OFD commnds.               1984
PA        2.20          MbinmIze rsk of maaria  odotr                      Complied widL
water-.aed disa
PA       3.01/3.02       Comply with accounting and                        Complied widt.
uditing requim_nts
PA        3.03 (a)       UndWataea study of riation waer    Mch 31.1984  Parta compliance
darge sysm and water ch
PA        3.03 (b)       Funi to IDA dte study under        Dec r 31,   Not caplied widL
Secdon 3.03 (a).                  1985
PA       3.03 (c)        Review wat chages in light of                     Not comped withb s    most MIPs ar
A~  ap I   bythieGOIEight                     hcampia
PA        3.04           Provide budgetry provisions for                   Not complied with.
O&M adeut to meta MP
suqunurnest



_ 26 -
pKtm
Table 8-A
ORISSA IRRIGATION I PRJEK C x (Edt 1397-IN}
Use oStff Resources
PART A. - Staff nuts
EYI3    FYX4    EYR8    EYI8        E7    E8    EFY89    EY20    T1
,...          .... (staff weeks).
PfeapprAis   100.2                                                                   100.2
Appaisal     82.6                                                                     82.6
Negoiations   9.7     0.5                                                             10.2
Suervision al   -     10.0     18.2    38.9    69.1       48.2      1.0       -      185.4
PCR           -        -         -        -        -       0.9      6.4     3.5 bI    10.8
lOTAL        192.5    10.5     18.2    38.9    69.1       49.1      7.4      3.5     389.2
Cmrnents.
a/ Ihe superviion input im FY 86 to FY 88 r ts the developing major problem stats of the project FY
87 and 88 icludes the addition supevision time for the Spec  Dam Review Study.
bi lhe PCR staff weeks for FY 90 are estimaed



IDMA
ORISSA IRRATION n PROJEC  (Credit 1397-IN)
Use of Staff Resourcs
Pat B. Bank Missions 12/Yi
No of                  Specializton   Performance
Stae of Pect              MonWear    Persons  Days in Field k2  Rwgz ned Y   Rating Status        I=s Qof Pln 
I.  P Ewt AXiEal:            9/82          7           24        E, A, 3E, WME       -
'E
II. Appraisal to Board.     11/82          4           10        2E, IE, AE          -            Project Status and Costs.
III. BoardAppraisalt
Effectiveness:          5/83          3          NA         2E, L               -
IV. Swmerim
12/83         3           4         E, 2E              2/1                 F
11/84         4           6         31E                2/1              F. M, O
4/85          4           5         E;IE,A,MC          2/2              F, M,O
12/85         2           4         IE, A               -              T, P, 1, O                   t
1/86          2           3         FA, P               -                P, O
4/86          3          12         21E, WME            -               WM,T
(Mid Term Review)        5/86          4          11         AE, 31E            212           T, M, D, WM
8/86          1          12        IE                                     T
8/86          1           6         WNE                 -                 T
5187          9          14         AE, E, 3E, 2P,    3/4             T, M, F, O
FA, R&R
9/87          3          13         31E                314            T, M, F, O
10/87         4          28         3DE, H              -            T (Dam Safety)
3/88          1           6         IE                                T, M. F, O
Part C. Staffing Costs 5/
1/ The project was suprvised by New Delhi Office until December 1985.
2/ Days in field relate to staff/mission time on prject; many mssions had odher assignments.
E = Economist; AE = Ag     o     A = Agricultwilist; IE = Irigation Enginer; WME - Water Management
Expern L = Lawyer; MC = Management Consultant; FA = Financial Analyst; P = Procurement Expert; R&R = Resettlement
Exper; DE = Dam Specialist; H =Hydrolog                       is t;   =
4/ Type of Problem: F - Financial; M = Management; T = Technical; WM = Water Managemnt; D = Disbureent; 0 = Other         
5/ No information available.                                                                 
0e-4



- 28 -
Annex I
Page 1
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECr
(Credit 1397-IN)
Econ01uC Re-baal oQl2f 
Backgmonsl.
1.    For te l8 MPs supported under the project, 2 MEPs are reported as complete, 10 MIPs are
substantially complete and 6 MIPs are at vaious stages of construction Cfable 1). At the tie when
this PCR was written, there was insufficient data to determine accurately the project's impact on
agricultural performance. A PCR mission was not able to visit Orissa since Credit closure and GOO
has not provided any project performance data. Thus, most of the descriptions given below are based
on limied data on irrigated areas reported by GOI in March 1988 and experience with irigated
agriculture under Orssa conditions. The PCR estmates have also taken into consideation
prliminay results from a few schemes that were under partial operation as reported by various
supervision missions. The economic re-evaluation of the project should therefore be considered as
tentative.
2.    The PPAR of the Orissa Irrigation I Project (Credit 740-IN) reported that a realistic
assessment of the ERR for the investments to 1982 was particularly difficult, and recomnmended that
the project should probably be subject to impact evaluation at some later date. This was not
undertaken and would not have been possible up to the Credit closure of the project under review
(March 1988) because of lack of reliable data on both project costs and virtually no data on
agricultural impact. A particular conern is that no data is available to evaluate either the costs or
benefits of either the on-farm development or the land consolidation components.
Costs and Benefits
3.    bPrect Costs All investment costs since the start of construction of the MIPs under the
project which pertain to irrigation development and are necessary to complete the project works and
land development have been included in the cost streams. The financial costs shown in Table 1 have
been spread over the implementation period for each MIP based on the PCR estimates since
insufficient data has been made available by GOO to specifically allocate costs by years. Future
expenditures to complete on-going MIPs are based on GOO projections made in March 1988 which
were qualified as tentative. Expenditures have been brought to 1982 price levels using wholesale
price indices and financial costs have been adjusted to economic costs using the conversion factors
given in Table 2. Estimated O&M costs of Rps 120,000/hayear (financial costs) have been included
in the cost streams reflecting the likely O&M costs to effectively sustain and operate the MIPs as
designed. These estimated O&M expenditures are substantially greater than GOO has historically
alcated to existing MIPs in the State. The likely effect of underfunding the O&M has been tested in
the sensitivity analysis.
4.    Benefis. The rate that the kharif and rabi benefit streams are likely to build up for each MIP
have been estimated based on limited GOO data given in Table 3. Icemental crop production at full
development (1990-95) have been developed on the basis of: (i) present and future cropping pattns
for rainfed and irrigated command areas given in Table 4 and (ii) cop yields assumed in Table 5.
5.    The financial and economic production costs, crop prices and benefits per hectare (in 1982
prices) have been taken as used in the SAR. This allows the re-evaluated ERR in the PCR (and thus
the future project impact as estimated in the PCR) to be cowped without disrtions with the ERR
evaluation in the SAR It also simplifies the task of re-evaluating the ERRs for the 18 MIPs.



- 29 -
Annex
Page 2
6.    On these assumptions, 'present' and future-with-projecf benefits per unit area (in economic
prices) have been generated on the basis of the crop yields and cropping patterns given in Tables 4
and 5.as follows:
i   Season        Present (12823           Future with Proect (1990-95)
(Rs"ha)                       (Rs/ha)
Irrigated Kharif              na                            2861
Irrigated  Rabi                na                           3982
Rainfed Kharif                1600                          1600
7.    Of specal intret is that the economic price for paddy (HYM   in 1982/83 prices assumed in
the SAR appears to have been low compared to other Bank supported prqects in India appraised
about the same ime as the Orissa Irrigation 11 Project. in particular, The economic price assumed for
Subanarekha Project which includes Orissa is about 60% grater than Orissa Iigation 11 Project for
appraisals which took place about the same dme.
PM=               Credit No,   BE          Fmancial Prices    Economic Prices
1982  1990195     1982  1990/95
- (Rslton)          (Rs/ton)
OrissaripgationI 1   1397-IN   1982         1150   1570        1100   1570
Subernareka        1289-IN     1983         1380   1660       2060   2470
Ha-yaw a           1319-IN     1983         1380   1800        1310   1880
UP Tubewells 11    1332-IN     1983         1270   1990        1390   1990
It is concluded that the economic rice for paddy in the SAR approximates to an equivalent economic
price for paddy based on 1988 commodity price projections (1625 Rs/ton). Thus the economic price
for paddy HYV at full development (1900/95) has been taken as 1570 Rsgt.
8.    Build-u of Benefits. To further simplify the re-evaluation of the ERR of 18 MIPs, it has also
been assumed that 'with irrigation' crop yields will be achieved in the first season that full irrigation is
supplied to an area. This simplifiation has been compensated for by adjusting the build-up period
over which rainfed converts to iigated area.
9.    Conversion of Rainfed Areas. The SAR reported that in 1982 some 68% of the total project
command area was under rainfed agriculte and some 22% of the CCA had to be reclaimed (i.e. land
cleared) as given in Table 3. The PCR has estimated the annual rate of change between the areas of
land cleared and the areas to rinfed crops and kharif iigated crops in generating the benefit streams
for each MIP.
Economic Rate of Retum
10.  The PCR re-evaluation of the ERR for the project and the individual MIPs is given in Table 6.
A datum base case ERR has been re-evaluated for the project in order to compare the possible project
impact after March 1988 on the assumption that GOO(: (0) completes the project efficiently to the
schedule prmised and (ii) then operates and sustains the project to the standards assumed in the
SAR.. This is unlikely given the pending technical problems related to system and water mnagement
and dam safety yet to be resolved. It is also unlikely given theprojectperfomance to date of the
substantially completed MIPs up to the Credit closure It is teforeconcluded that the assumptions
in the SAR and predictions by d00 in March 1988 on the agrculturl impact and the completion and
full development of the MIPs may be optimistic.



- 30 -
Annex I
Page 3
11.  The three main detminants which are likely to affect the datum base case ERR are: (i)
reductions in assumed benefits; (ii) underfunding of 0&M; and (iii) an inability of the lITigation
Depatment to opeat and manage the MPs as designed. The r-evaluated ERRs related to these
possible situations are given in Table 6. The significance of these determinants are as follows:
(i)  Reduction in BenefitS. The crop yields/uirgated areas given in the SAR ( and used in the
datum base case re-evaluation in the PCR) assume duth MIPs will be able to deliver timely,
reliable and equitable iigation service to all pans of an MS command area. This would
require a discipline and an ID institutional capabiity that is not ptesenly evident in Orissa.
The PCR has tested continuation of this siuation by assuming a reduction in die benefits of
25%. This would reduce the ERR for the overall projec to about 7.0%.
(ii) Underfundine of O&M. The cost of efficient O&M to sustain and operate the MIPs as
designed would be substantially greater than the O&M funding norms presently budgeted by
GOO for existing MIPs. At best, present levels of O&M funding are only sufficient for
curative maintenance. The PCR has tested for a 50% reduction in the O&M funing (ie.
down to the level thought to be provided at present) by assuming that future benefits would
be reduced by 40%. Such a reduction in future benefits would be due to a combination of
reduced crop yields and command areas provided with full irigation service. This would
result in an ERR for the overall project to about 5.3%.
(di) IneffeTve ManhMMI. Ihis test assumes that the D would not be able to: (i) operate the
MIPs on the basis of rotational water supplies (assumed in the SAR and MIP designs); Cii)
restrict the area under paddy in the rabi season; and (il) effectively manage remote and
isolated irrigation schemes. All evidence indiwates dtat GOO will have great difficulties to
improve the present uieffective management. This situation has been tested by reducing the
futue khlrf and rabi benefits by 40% and 20% respectively. This would result in an ERR
for the overall project of about 6.0%.
12.   Conclusions. If GOO could deliver the project following the assumptions implicit in the SAR
and also the optimistic future predictions on completing and fully developing the MIPs, the best
estmate of the re-evaluated project ERR would be about 9.8% compared with 14% predicted in the
SAR. On the information available for the prepration of the PCR, a more probable impact of the
project would be reflected (at best) by the future scenano implicit under cases (ii) or case (iii) above.
13.  It is therefore concluded that the re-evaluated ERR for the overall project would be about 6.0%
and the the range of ERRs for individual schemes will range from about 13.5% to about 2.9%.



ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECr (Credit 1397-IN'
PoEmk& ConSleton ROMt
Status of On-going MIPs
Expenditures and Estimated Costs to Completion
(Rs M)
Appraisal                                    ActualY __
Total Estimated Costs  Cumulative
Original   Revised     Expenditues     Revised     Cumulative           Remaining
Name of rpject         CWC      GC)0 it 1     t 3J31I83I2    12/8L    Expenditures to 3188  Cosgsafter31
1. Daha               87.5      109.6          111.3         153.6         153.8
2. Raniala            132.7     132.7          101.7          187.7        167.6               20.1
3. Sunei              121.3     192.1          100.0         270.0         251.4                18.6
4. Kuanria            74.5      100.9           87.8          130.7        129.6                1.1
5. Dumrbahal          37.1       37.1           31.3          38.9         37.2                 1.7
6. Gobira             109.6     168.5           88.4          196.0        195.5                0.5
7. Remal              57.3      100.2           88.1          138.1        137.6                0.4
8. PillasaLUd         40.1      67.9            68.8          93.2         89.5                 3.7
9. Sarapgarh          38.1       46.5           38.5          71.0          62.4                8.6
10. Jharbandh         22.8      28.7            21.2          33.7         34.2
II. Talsar            51.8      54.0            50.8          71.4         68.1                 3.3
12. Hariharjore      177.6      177.6           66.8         452.6        210.4               242.1
13. Harbhangi        187.9     283.2            64.8         542.7         184.2              358.5
14. Kanjhari         155.2      155.2           85.2         271.4        251.1                20.3
15. Bankbal          151.3      151.3           31.1         294.1         185.7              108.4
16. Kansbahal         99.7      149.3           21.1         194.5         143.5               50.9
17. UperJonk         202.9     202.9             7.4         352.2         96.0               256.2
18. Bndanala         208.4     258.9 L          12.2       A_..           17845.456
Total            1955.8    2416.6         1076.5         3925.9       2576.2              1349.5
2J As of December 31, 1982, inluding price escalation.
21 Cumulative expenditures on schemes started under Orissa Irigation I Project (Cr. 840-IN) and used            I
in the SAR in the estimate of the ERR.                                                                      to
3/ Best estimates as of 8/3/88, subject to further revisions.
0KMX 



- 32 -
PMM
Annex I
ORISSA llRRIGATlON 11 PROJECr (Cedit 1397-lntI
Phazct QMnnpldon geo=
1982                    199011995
CROPS (Rston)           Fuiancial    Economnic      Financia    EFonomic
Paddy                     1150         1100           1570        1570
Wheut                     1650        1600            1750         750
maize                     1100         900            1150        1150
Rao                       1000         940             990         990
Gram                      2900        2900            3260        3260
Pulses                    2560        2560            2880        2880
Groundnuts                2500        2500            3670        3670
Mustd                    3380        3950           4200         4200
Vegetablesftltes           650         650             780         780
Sugacane                   160          100            250         230
INPUTS Otskg)
Nitrogen (N)                4.4         4.0            5.4          4.8
Phosphate (P205)            4.1         3.7            4.9          3.9
Potasium (K20)              1.8         1.9            1.7          2.1
FYMCampost (Ra/on)         24.0        19.0           24.0         19.0
Dnft P r (Rs/day)          12.0         9.0           12.0          9.0
Farm Labor                  3.4         2.7            3.4          2.7
Conversion Factos
Standad Conversion Factor (SCF)         0.80
Construction Conversion Factor (CCF)    0.70
Silfled Labor                           0.80 of market wage
Unskie Labor                            0.65 of market wage
1/ Taken firm the SAR; expressed in 1982 currency values
21 Based on 1982 IBRD Commodity Puice Forecasts (Updating December 1981)



ORISSA lR}UUAIION 11 PROJECT (Credit 1397-lN
Prqj oim nlto Remox
3. Simei  10000        10000          -           353        305          6500 -m                 65%m  4f200i
5 . Daebaha              2800            2660        1240          2530              2      66043     634         124%                      2800
6. Gohlim                8100            8100        4574          143         98          7100       1310        104%                      8100
7. Remal                 3900            3900         1402           4        -3900                   1000        126%                      3900
8. PWasalk               2388            2390         925          185        179          2268       1200        145%                      2268
9. Sarapgar              2238            2240         1130           3          3          2240        132        106%                      24 
10. Thaxbeml             2234            2040         236           14        -2125                   450         131%                     2D40
SfQt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33
I 1. Talsara             3036            3030         379           22        21          3030       1051         135%                      33
12. H&arCAtorbe          9950            9450         912          394 
13. z                    49650           9150         406          153        2           4          1
2.14 amiCa               9800            9800        3048          197        124         3125                                             453-  4
4.: Bbsomi37200                          6840         435          282       282                     1 2
S.                       SWnedxiud   2800  4610       758          174                      - 2
17 UPWJonk9920                    9430         2477         370                                  -
6.: Bkidala              8100            8650         4S74         14_8_10                           1301%80
18. Rkm                3.98fX         .....15.     ....2      ~ ..46         -             -90        10           2%30
TO9                113,846         110,070      Z43123       3,225      12480        41,414        t3290                              41951
I1/ As of 3W31N based on a uxpess repot preared by the irrgaio Deparunent (100.
21 CCA recWmed unde the p9oj    po0ed as 14,679 ha.
.64 famies resetdld under the6S OWL am ents Restlment              of 106 famiies  ukwn.
At aaial, it was mumed that WWgacrp ntsi would be about 135% at full evlopme
'V
1  E-4



ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECr (Credit 1397-IN)
Cropgnng PatternsA
(Perent)
Future With Project
Crop              ent            Puture Wlthout       Rainfed       -ritd       Rainfed g
SAR    _    SAR, PCR                                                          PCR
Paddy Local     69      -         69       -            32            35          69
Paddy HYV       10      -         10       -                          53          10           90
maize            3      -          3       -                           2           3
Ragi             7      -          7                    22              -          7            5
Pulses           9      -          9                    54              -          9
Groundnuts       2      -          2       -                           5           2
Vegetables       -                                                     _-  3       -            S
Total          100      -                               100           98         100          100
Rabi
PaddyHYV                  -        .                                   15                      64
Wheat            -                                          -  -      26           -
Gram            76      -         76       -            100           19          76            17
Mustard         15      -         15       -                           16         15           15
Groundnuts       6      -          6       -                           14          6            4
Vegetables       3                 3                                  A            3 _
Total          100               100       -            100           98         100          100
Pennial
Sugarcane (irr)  -                 -       -                           2           -
Sugamane (rf)    -
Total
I/ Crop coverage as a percent of unit area cultivated.
2/ AAR asumed that rainfed command area was approxiiately 68% of project command area.



- 35 -
Part in
Annex I
Table 5
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION nI PROJECT (Credit 1397-IN)
Project Completion Report
Cro Yields 1/
(#ha)
Appraisal Estimate
Future   Future
Present   WZithout  With        PCR Estimate
Kharif Iigazed
Paddy, Local         -          -     2.1               2.2
Paddy, HYV           -          -     3.2               3.2
maize                -         -       1.8              1.8
Ragi                 -         -      0.8                -
Pulses               -          -     0.6
Groundnuts           -          -      1.9              1.9
Vegetables           -         -     13.0              13.0
Kharif Rainfed
Paddy Local         1.3        1.4    1.6               1.6
Paddy, HYV          1.5        1.6     -
Maize               0.9       0.9      -
Ragi                0.7       0.7    0.8                0.8
Pulses              0.5        0.5    0.6               0.6
Groundnuts          1.2        1.2      -
Vegetables           -          -      -
Rabki  gated 21
Paddy, HYV           -                3.4               3.4
Wheat                -                2.4               2.4
Grain               0.5       0.5    0.9                0.9
Mustard             0.3       0.3    0.7                0.7
Groundnuts          1.3        1.3    2.1               2.1
Vegetables          7.0       7.0   13.0               13.0
Perennial
Sugarcane (irri)     -          -    70.0
Sugarane (rf)        -               70.0
[I For MIPs; no data available for on-farm development component.
21 All rabi crops would received some irrigation from traditional sources.



IDA
ORISSiA    AXATION RI H PR   (Coedit 1397-IN)
(RsM)
MIP         Origina       SAR           PCR                          Urdkfimding    Ineflcdve
Schmte Name         A4Upnisd lDae    9,kdm= 1/    EFingV 2/       e CMse      7S5b EBfift      of 08hi       bzLMo
1. Dra                 8f77          11.0          8.5           10.0             6.9            5.0             5.7
2. Rwial                8/77          18.6         16.1          1S.7            11.7            9.7            10.8
3. Sunci                8f77         23.1          19.1           9.9             7.4            5.8             6.3
4. Kuanria              /79           10.7          8.5           9.0             6.2            4.6             5.2
S. Dumubaedd            1/79          19.1         14.7          20.1            15.4            12.6           13.5
6.  Ochila             9/79          21.6          19.0          13.0             9.9            7.9             9.1
7. Renal                7109 I.3                    7.8           8.3             5.7            4.2             4.8
S. PilloaDd            ZJ80           13.1         10.4           9.5             6.6            4.8             5.6
9. SmapgoW h           2280           15.0         12.8           9.9             7.0            5.3             6.2
10. Ihubarndh          2J80          20.2          17.3          20.0            15.2           12.4            13.3
1 1. Takra             2/80          21.4          18.3          13.5            9.9             7.8             8.4
12. HIbfljue           1/81          14.6          14.4           6.8             4.5            3.1             3.5
13. Habtangl                           -           NA             5.8             3.5            2.0             2.4
14 KiIni'i             3/81          11.2          11.0          10.9             8.1            6.5             7.4
1S. BEkbul             182           12.0          12.0           7.7             5.3            4.0             4.2
16. Kiubamb#l          ltB2          16.3          16.3           6.5             4.4            3.1             3.5
17. Upqx Jonk          7/82          23.9         23.9           11.0             8.0            6.2             6.9
18. B-dnd                              ,           NA             6.6             4.2            2.7             2.9
Projet                            18.0         14.0            9.8            7.0             5.3            6.0
1/ Based on O   Iiao I Pn oect (Credit 840-IN) assupi&
21 SAR of Grim ladgatioa U Projct
Y  Asamnis tbat IDPs wil be opeoaed and suained as deigned and best esimate of command ara under rainfed agriacture pqexojecL
4J 25% reduction in projec beneits
5I 50% of fmung rued for dficient O&C  40% educto in proje benfits due to reduce iauintod area and crop yids
J  Ieffecdve       of MlPs reswul   in Iffiaet unidmely and inequitable  igati aea;    r nd  i befits reduced by 20% and S0% reectiv*.
N(IE: Harbhangi and Badanal omitted in SAR due to lack of data.
1II I



MAP SECTION



1_D 16
PAEISTA' J  C HI NA                                                                                                                                              oocun._X    I f 
A' 
N  CD I A w',< U>>         
r U  .                                                                      B               A E S T
Ursee X " a  a  a  2  7 >         ,A R B Ha ,
j H ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~       
<)                                             U R\ \ > /  MED    ISS    IRRIGATION          PROJECTS
r-,:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Exoto                                     M &a  lr<ab  No f            HRJ AdDO  S  H  AOYW RZZtA
(  )  C>A Nt  H R + P vD * Stob \%eAst~~H      Un   <                                                                                   5
-; 6 z   <   VZ  X                                               -- S* 8arF                         r X* 0oT f S/   z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  o  OA T
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AL L;AND   V  t
MEIU                                                              ZONESINPRJET



