Docmaent of
The World Bank
-FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
cqe 1 3R7- 3>%
leps N -P-3612-1i
OF TRE
}RESRT OF mm
IMNhON&L DEVEL ENT         ON
TO TEE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PNEPOMMD CREDIT
IN AN AiDUT OF SDR 97.1 NILLIO
TO I3IDI&
POR T
ORISSAI   I PROJECT
June 9, 1983
This docmnt bas a restcted distrinuion and my be ued by recipients only in the performance of
tbel ollicid dudes. Its ctaB- many not othrwsec be adicosed without Woiid Bank xfftborifon.



CIIRRENCY EQUIVAETS
(As of Jue 79 1983)
US$1           - Rs 10.056648
Rs 1           m  US$0. 100000
Rs 1 dllion  -  US$100,000
The US Dol1ar/Rupee emchange rate Is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report mere made at
US$1.00 - Rs 9.5, uhich represents the average exchange
rate projected ever the disblrsement period.
FISCAL YEA
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and ASronyms used in this Report
CAD      -      Command Area Development
CVC      -      Central Water Comnission
DAFP      -     Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production
ERR       -     Economic Rate of Return
D00       -     Goverument of Orissa
001      -      Government of India
ICB       -     International Competitive Bidding
ID        -     Irrigation Department lithin the I&pD (Government of Orissa)
I&PD      -     Irrigation and Power Department (Government of Orissa)
IDA       -     International Development Association
IBRD      -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LCB       -     Local Competitive Bidding
HIP       -    Medium Irrigation Project
OFD      -      On-faza Development
0&M       -     Operations and Maintenance
R&D       -     Research and Development
RWS       -     Rotational water Supply
SCHC     -      State Coordinating and Monitoring Committee
VAW       -     Village Agriculture Worker
WALII     -     Water and Land Manageent Institute
WMC       -     Water Nanagement Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
CREDIT AID PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:                  Government of Orissa (GOO).
Amount:                       SIR 97.1 million (US$105 million equivalent).
Terms:                        Standard.
On-Lendi!g Terms:            As part of the Central assistance to States for
development projects on terms and conditions
apiplicable at the time. The Goverment of India
(Go0) would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:          The four-year project would continue the
Government of Orissa's construction prtgam
of Medium Irrigation projects (MIPs)
commenced in 1960, and assisted by the Bank
Group since 1978. A total of 15 NIPs,
already under construction in the context of
the earlier Orissa I juroject would be
completed and set in operation during this
second "time-slice7 project which would
commence opril 1, 1983 and extend through
March 31, 1987. Another three HIPs just
comenced under the earlier project would be
brought to near-completion status and about
six new MIPs would be appraised and partly
constructed during the project period. In
addition, some 160,000 ha of land would be
consolidated into economic production areas
and, within this area, a system of
watercourses and drains (defined as On-famn
Development or OFD) would be designed. In
approximately 48,000 ha of such consolidated
land, the OFD works would be constructed
during the project. To test improved HIP and
canal system performance, a Research,
Development and Training Cell is being
established to undertake pilot studies and a
number of coordinating units is being
established to ensure that all State
Government departments and research
institutions are actively involved in the
success of the project. As this is a
continuation of a successful, ongoing
program, the risks are considered acceptable.
Two problews identified in the earlier
T hi document hs a restice distibution and may be used by reipents ody in the perfonrane of
thei official dutes. Its contents may not otherwisc be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
project -- cost-overruns and delays in land
acquisition - are both adequately addressed
in this project.
Estimated Costs: 1/
US$ Millions
Item                                   Lococl          Foreign           Total
Medium Irrigation Projects
Ongoing MIPs                          68.4              9.1             77.5
New MIPs                               9.2              1.3             10.5
Sub-total MIPs                      77.6             10.'             88.0
Command Area Development
Land Consolidation                     7.6               -               7.6
Onrfarm Development                    6.1              1.1              7.2
Sub-total CAD                       13.7              1.1             14.8
Research, Development & Training         0.7              0.1              0.8
Sub-total                           92.0             11.6            103.6
Physical Contingencies                  15.1              2.2             17.3
Price Contingencies                     17.4              2.2             19.7
Subtotal                            32.5              4.4             37.0
Total Project Cost                 124.5             16.1            140.6
Financing Plan:
IDA                                    88.9              16.1            105.0
Local Financing                        35.6               -               35.6
Total                             124.5              16.1            140.6
I/ Including taxes and duties which are negligible.



-iii-
Estimated Disbursements:
USS Millions
IBRD FY             FY84        FY85       FY86         FY87
Annual              15.1        25.4       28.9         35.6
Cumulative          15.1        40.5       69.4        105.0
Rate of Return:         For the overall project, the composite economIc rate
of return (ERR) is 19%; the average ERR for MIPs is
14%, and for the command area development component,
the ERR is 48Z.
Appralsal Report:       No. 4448-INa, dated May 31, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed develop-
ment credit to India of SDR 97.1 million (US$105 million equivalent) on stand-
ard IDA terms to help finance the implementation of the Government of Orissa's
ongoing investment program for medium-scale irrigation projects over the next
four years, and command area development, including land consolidation and
on-farm works in various areas within Orissa. Tne proceeds of the credit would
be chanelled to the Government of Orissa in accordance with the Government of
India's standard terms and arrangements for the financing of State development
projects. The exchange risks would be borne by the C-overnment of India (GOI).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
An economic report, "Economic Situation of India and Rescurce Mobi-
lization Issues" (4395-IN, dated April 11, 1983), was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on April 19, 1983. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$250. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture - 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a resilt,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Report for the Maharashtra Water Utilization Project,
(No. P-3585-IN), dated May 19, 1983.



-2-
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8Z in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20Z was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3X of GDP and
averaging below 1% for the past five years. Net foreign savings have never
risen above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1x.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to uid-1970s,
however, India-s terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India-s exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the l97Cs as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives plrved a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9Z and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2%, 1.6 per-
centage points above the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2Z, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.62 in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector.  This overall improvement in :he
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.



-3-
8.      After two years of fairly solid perforrance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5Z-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83. This resulted-from a combination of several
factors, notably the dec.ine in agriculture income, persistent (though les-
sened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed export
markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was able,
however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the momen-
tum of the investment program through largely successful public sector resource
mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in support of this
effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic policies
mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon. Continued
improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace than in
the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons. Production of most other major
crops also declined In 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this still
represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The Government
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient manage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
Imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps. These
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect of the
drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon
in India-s agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand. The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain conr
sumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance. Neverthe-
less, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy. Railway
trafflc grew by only 3.7% -n 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from 1981/82. The
lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational efficiency of the
railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like steel, iron ore,
coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4X in 1982/83), after
10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There were no major
shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal. Recent easing
of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily from better
utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most improvement must



-4-
result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important that India
maintaini the pace of investment in these key sectors and mobilize sufficient
resources to do so.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. India-s gross
national savlngs rate, which averaged 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any staiLdard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the poverty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient               6
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increase in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India-s ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
In 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disrurtion of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
Inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP. The improvrement would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in  the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDP growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India-s develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 198C/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in 'other-
imports through more liberal import policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
Chat the balance of paymeats will be under strain for the next several years,
for India-s adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarilyr implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of sup-
pliers- and export credits. India-s favorable debt service profile has enabled
India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over relatively
high underlying rates). In the period 1980-82 India contracted comimercial



-5-
loans totalling over US$2,000 million and suppliers' credits of about
US$520 million. The bulk of the loans are linked to speciflc development
projects in the public sector while the credlts are linked, by and large, to
development projects In the private sector. India also reached an agreement
with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund Facility
for SDR 5 billion, of which SDR 2.5 billion have already been drawn. The
transfer of funds under the EFF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reser-
ves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
In 1982/83, in addition to continued use of the EFF, financing requirements
were met by increased non-concessional borrowing (about US$2,000 million in new
committrents) and a 10% increase in net aid disbursement.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
co grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structurc, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with Institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The mediumrterm framework for advancing India's development objectives
Is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now In its fourth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
lnfrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan invest-
ment, even if some increase in Inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of develop-
ment, in which a large and growirg proportion of investment has been needed
to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, transport and
irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. However, there is
scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater efficiency
and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors clearly



-6-
can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been made.
As demonstrated in the last three years, performance in the basic service
sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus leading to
higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy. At the
same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case of
tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grourids of comparative advantage. For Eectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall mediumr and long-term
development prospects. In the short term, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between domestic
ceonsumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domesLic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% 1% 1979/80 to about 45% now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33Z of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, ofEers much encouragement for India-s
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite an expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessionel
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources. Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further invest-
ment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments. In the short term, a relatively
lerge external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial borrow-
ing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences of
such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India with
the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional assis-
tance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing on
c.xmercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The Government-s effort
to "aintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign



-7-
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
India Is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous
investment requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The
fact that India has been able over the past seven years to maintain a rate of
growth above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979/80 and
1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and con-
certed efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India-s development efforts. The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 683.8 million, or about 12 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further
analysis of the Census may suggest this rate of growth to be slightly overes-
timated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the population growth rate
has not materialized. Until the results of the Census are fully analyzed, firm
judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However, the
results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health
and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services. These
efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the
proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth.  More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
nonrfarm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can be en!oura-ed and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments.  There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies.  Operations such as the conmunity health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging



-8-
evidence that vell-targetted, relatively lou-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India-s poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 71 loans and 156 development
credits to India totalling US$4,683 million and US$11,447 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,332 million has been
repaid, and US$5,907 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1983. Bank
Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31, 1983
totalled US$1,008 million, representing an increase of about 17 percent over
the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disburse-
ments as of March 31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 28 commitments in India totalling US$220.4
million, of which US$28.3 million has been repaid, US$56.2 million sold and
US$17.3 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$118.6 million, US$111.1 mil-
lion represents loans and US$7.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country-s development objectives in its support of agriculture, energv and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural produc-
tivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural inputs to
farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed projects.
Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at helping to
meet the energy needs of the econowy while curbing the growth of oil imports,
and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic growth
in India, particularly through power generation and distribution, and railways
and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided financing
for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily
in the private sector, through its support of development finance institutions.
Rec-.gnizing the importance of improving the ability to satisfy the essential
vteas of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group has supported nutrition
and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as well as water supply
and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India-s adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers-
rields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India-s efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in be.n the agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil



-9-
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expan-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestlc production of basic comoodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and leveLs of transpor-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.      The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources In
support of the development of India-s economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. Hovever, there
is nc-- a need for increased foreign assistance to India, not only to help the
economy adjust to the more recent oil price increases and the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment but also to maintain the rela-
tively higher growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Sixth
Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim
to inc &de the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be sm--l in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectorz as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.      India-s poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency a- a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India-s external payments position is still managerable. The ratio cf India-s
debt service to the level of exports was about 112 in 1982/83 and is projected
to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1983, outstanding loans
to India held by the Bank totalled US$3,471 million, of which US$1,854 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,617 million.
28.      Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12Z of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 432 and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India-s outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group-s share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA-s US$5.9 billion and IBRD-s US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India-s total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN ORISSA
29.     The State of Orissa covers an area of about 15.5 million ha of
which 6.8 million ha is arable. About 18' of this arable area (1.2 iil-
lion ha) is served by irrigation canals. Orissa is one of the poorest
States of India with an average per capita annual income, at US$90, less
than half the all-India average. In real terms, the State-s per capita
income has declined over the last five years. Some 40Z of the State-s
population belong to Scheduled Tribes and Castes, groups that are
generally among the least benefitted by the country s economic progress to
date. The State is predominantly rural and agricultural and the pressures
of population and poverty in rural Orissa are considerable. Among Indian
States, Orissa has the highest percentage of people living in rural
areas - over 90Z.
30.    Agriculture contributes about 66% of the Stateso gross domestic
product and employs nearly 80Z of the total population. Farmers in Orissa
have been slow in adopting improved farming practices as is indicated by
the relatively low levels of fertilizer use in the State and the low
percentage of area of rice sown in high-yielding varieties. Reasons for
this include the unreliability of water supplies and, until recently, the
lack of adequate agricultural extension effort. Yields of most crops are
low. For example, production of rice, the major foodgrain accounting for
over 9O0 of total sown area, has virtually stagnated since the mid-1960s.
Rice production in 1980/81 totalled some 4.4 million tons -- about the
same level as in 1973/74. In 1974175, 1976/77 and 1979180, severe drought
conditions reduced rice production compared to the previous year by some
40% to 50%. The fragmented and uneconomic land tenure system in much of
the State also contributes to poor yields. Small farmers, with holdings
of less than two hectares, operate about 75% of all holdings yet own less
than 40% of the total cultivable land. Complicating the small land hold-
ing problem is the degree of fragmentation of these holdings - par-
ticularly in the delta areas where a typical one hectare farm holding
consists of 8-10 separate plots. The net result is that the State is
chronically deficient in foodgrain supplies and, in 1980/81, received some
720,000 tons of supplies from the GDI foodgrain pool.
31.     Irrigation development in Orissa has occurred along four clearly
identifiable lines. First-, the Major Irrigation Projects involving over
12,000 ha each, are typically tied to large irrigation canals in the
coastal areas, the Nahanadi and Rushikulya deltas amd in the Salandi and
Hirakud areas.  The second, the Medium Irrigation Projects (MIPs) involve
some 2,000-12,000 ha each and are typically located inland, away from the
delta areas, and provide irrigation water to the rural communities. Minor
Surface Irrigation Projects that typically involve areas of less than
2,000 ha are based on local farmer initiatives and provide only supplemenr
tary irrigation during the kharif season. Finally, groundwater-based
irrigation has grown rapidly over the last two decades and now involves



-11-
some 360,000 private dugwells, 3,200 nrivate filter point tubevells and
2,600 public tubewells.
32.     Investment in irrigation has increased substautially (by nearly
300Z in current terms over the past five years) and continues to be given
a high priority. Irrigationr-related investments currently account for
about 28X of GOO-s total development budget allocation. Within the
irrigation sector the proportion of the development budget allocated to
MIPs has grown from A1Z in the Fourth Plan to about 44Z in the current
Sixth Plan period which runs through March 1985. In addition, Orissa has
several major dams and reservoirs which have recently been completed or
are under construction including the Rengali, Upper Kolab, Upper Indravati
and Subernarekha system dams, most of which are multi-purpose dams for
power generation and irrigation.
33.     Under the Orissa I projec- (Credit 740-IN, 1977, US$58 million)
land consolidation and on-farm dejelopment works in an area of 200,000 ha
and 57,000 ha, respectively, were planned and are being completed and a
total of 18 MIPs were designed, appraised and approved by IDA for con-
struction during the six-year -time-slice" project. All are at various
stages of completion, with the first being virtually complete. Construc-
tion of MIPs under the Orissa I project has been somewhat slower than
anticipated at appraisal (seven years versus five years). Two substantive
problems were encountered that slowed the pace of construction: firstly,
there were extensive delays in land acquisition resulting from the large
number of administrative steps involved, and secondly, there was a 35Z
real increase in the average cost of constructing MIPs over that estimated
at appraisal when very little cost data was available for these remote
areas in Orissa. The land consolidation and on-farm development (OFD)
components of this first project are only slightly behind schedule, and
that is largely because of the massive flooding which occurred late in
1982; in spite of this delay, the targets will be achieved by the project
Closing Date of October 31, 1983.
34.     Agricultural supporting services throughout the State of Orissa
are adequate. The IDA-assisted -training and visit- (T&V) system of
agricultural extension was introduced under the Orissa Agricultural
Development Project (Credit 682-IN, US$20.0 million, April 1977) and now
covers virtually all districts of the State. The project, which is
proceeding satisfactorily, closes December 31, 1983. Seed is provided
farmers from 85 agricultural seed farms operated by ODO and the Orissa
State Seed Corporation. Fertilizers and plant protection chemicals are
supplied through cooperatives, agro-industry agents and private dealers.
Agricultural credit is available to farmers from the primary Agricultural
Credit Cooperative Societies, land development banks and commercial banks.
Recoveries, which have been low for all categories of credit, averaged
about 52Z during the period 1977178-1981/82. Tne agricultural credit
system would not be directly utilized in the proposed project. The 76
agricultural m2rkets operating in Orissa are generally adequate to handle
incremental production from the proposed project although, in some areas,



-12-
developmeut of new or additional facilities may be required if found
necessary during the project period.
35.     The Aesociation has been involved in a number of other projects
in Orissa. The Salandi Irrigation Project (Credit 14-IN, 1961,
US$8 million) was one of the first irrigation projects supported by the
Bank Group in India. A review of Orissa's agricultural potential and
development constraints was conducted in 1975 jointly by IDA, GOI and GOO
and the review outlined the priority areas for the future development in
the State.  The proposed project is consistent with the priorities out-
lined in this review. The Mahanadi Barrages Project (Credit 1078-IN,
1981, US$83 million) assists in the construction of two new barrages on
the Mahanadi River and the Subernarekha Irrigation Project
(Credit 1289-IN, 1982, US$127 million) is a joint Bihar/Orissa/West Bengal
project for developing surface water resources in the Subernarekha basin.
These projects are progressing satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE PROJnECT
Project Formulation and Objectives
36.     In Orissa, the two major constraints to increased development in
the rural areas are the lack of adequate water for crop production in the
rabi season (October through April) and the fragmented, uneconomic plot
size and water usage practices in the major irrigation project areas. GOO
is making considerable progress in addressing these issues and this
project - the second 'time-slice' of GOO's MIP construction program
would provide finance for completing MIPs begun under the Orissa I
Project, commencing new HIPs, and for further land consolidation and OFD
works over additional areas in the State. It would also finance the
introduction of improved water management techniques in the completed
project area. An R&D component would assist in developing and introducing
improved technologies and management processes in the project.
37.     The proposed project would support GOO-s MIP construction program
over a four-year period commencing April 1, 1983 through March 31, 1987.
The proposed project was prepared by GOI and GOO and was appraised in
November 1982. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as
Annex III. A report, entitled India, Orissa Irrigation II Project, Staff
Appraisal Report, No. 4448-IN dated May 31, 1983, is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C., in May 1983. The Borrower and GOO were represented by a
delegation coordinated by Mr. N. Misra of the Department of Economic
Affairs.



-1 3-
The Project
38.     The largest component of the project (US$121.6 million) would
finance the completion of 15 ongoing MIPs, and the continued construction
of an additional three MIPs -- all of which were commenced under the first
Orissa preject and which together serve about 108,000 ha. Work would also
commence on about six new MIPs under the proposed project. Completed MIPs
would be operated at higher performance standards than envisaged under the
Orissa I project with concomitant benefits in agricultural production.
An HIP consists typically of a storage darm, usually of earthfill construc-
tion, with gated spillway and canal headworks; a canal network delivering
water to chaks (typically about 30 ha); watercourses conveying water to
5 ha sub-chak-t, and appropriate drainage channels. Field channels and
field drains within each 5 ha sub-chak are constructed by the farmers.
Each new MIP would be appraised by the Central Water Commission (CWC) and
approved by the Association prior to construction on the basis of agreed
technical and economic criteria (see draft Project Agreement, Sec-
tion 2.02). Map 16796 attached shows MIP site locations.
39.     The project would also finance Command Area Development (CAD)
works (US$17.9 million) in the commands of four major irrigation project
areas involving land consolidation and the design of associated onrfarm
development (OFD) works (consisting of watercourses and drains) in about
160,000 ha, and the construction of such OFD works in an area of some
48,000 ha. Land consolidation would involve the aggregation of multiple
small plots owned by a farmer into fewer, larger, economically-sized
plots. (Redistribution of land ownership between farmers is not
involved.) OFD construction works under the project would consist of
construction of watercourses, field channels and drains, including small
structures and outlets. Some improvement of the existing canal aetwork
serving the OFD area would be also necessary to ensure reliable water
supplies to the newly constructed watercourses.
40.     A major focus of the project would be the improved management and
operation of the works financed under the project. In this regard, the
project would also finance the development of a systematic Research and
Development (R&D) program (US$1.0 million) to develop and pilot teat
options for improved MIP and CAD canal system performance and a training
program for Irrigation Department (ID) staff. These traininRg programs
would be coordinated and integrated with the development of the Orissa
Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI) financed under the Suber-
narekha Irrigation Project (Cr. 1289-IN). It would also finance the
purchase of improved computing and other equipment and vehicles to
strengthen the Central Design Office and the Quality Control Unit within
the ID.
41.     Specialist technical services of individual short-term consultants
estimated to total about 48 mar-months during the project period would be
provided through GOI under an on-going UNDP water management grant to GOI
(the Advisory Services for Mod'rnization of Land and Water Schemes) for



-14-
which the Bank is the executing agency. No project funding would be
required for this component.
42.     To achieve the projected benefits from NIPs under the project,
strengthened agricultural extension activities, together with increased
agricultural supporting services and market facilities would be of primary
importance. As mentioned above, a 'T&V' extension service operates in
Orissa but to provide adequate advice to farmers in the newly constructed
MIPs who would now have the opportunity to move from the traditional paddy
crops to higher-valued cash crops, may require some strengthening of the
State T&V system. GOO would, six months prior to the completion of each
MIP, take all action as shall be necessary to strengthen its agricultural
extension and supply support, including provision of adequate supply of
production inputs, agricultural credit and market facilities (see draft
Project Agreempnt, Section 2.13).
Project Implementation
43.     The organizational responsibilities for undertaking NIP construc-
tion and for land consolidation and OFD works would generally follow the
same pattern as in the ongoing Orissa I project. Construction and sub-
sequent operation of each KIP would continue to be the responsibility of
a designated Assistant Engineer within the Irrigation Department. To
assist in the operation of the MIP after completion, the Assistant
Engineer and his staff would be assisted by a Water Management Committee
(WMC) which would be established for each MIP. GOO would establish, and
thereafter maintain in each MIP, a Water Management Committee with
appropriate powers and responsibilities and which would include as memr
bers, inter alia, the Assistant Engineer and representatives of both
farmers and the concerned government departments (see draft Project Agree-
ment, Section 2.09).
44.     Responsibilities for the activities that constitute the land
consolidation and OFD works in the CAD areas would continue unchanged from
the earlier project. Land consolidation is the responsibility of the
Revenue Department and OFD works construction is the responsibility of the
Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production (DAFP) and has operated
satisfactorily under the Orissa I project with all targets being achieved.
The Agriculture Engineering Organization within the DAFP has specific
responsibility for constructing OFD works in the CAD areas and has ade-
quate staffing and experience in planning, designing and supervising OFD
works. Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of OFD works and water allocation
among farmers is the responsibility of the farmers who would use the
existing Village Consolidation Committees.
45.     Development of appropriate water allocation procedures has not
been necessary in the past because of the predominant practice of
field-to-field irrigation of paddy. Such practices would be essential for
a substantial shift to diversified crops and would involve establishment
of rotational water supply (RWS) measures among farmers, or groups of



-15-
farmers. To ensure that appropriate RWS procedures are implemented in a
timely manner, (DO would ensure that regular irrigation water would be
delivered to chaks 1/ within an MIP only after construction of the dis-
tribution system within that chak has been completed to full operational
status and a Certificate of Completion issued by the ID, and secondly,
only after appropriate RWS allocation procedures have been established and
applied within that chak. Similarly, it would establish and apply
appropriate RWS procedures within 60 days after completion of works in CAD
areas (see draft Project Agreement, Section 2.17 and draft Credit Agree-
ment, Schedule 1, para 4).
46.     To improve overall monitoring and policy-level coordination
between the various agencies involved in the project, a high-level State
Coordinating and Monitoring Committee (SCMC) chaired by the GDO Developr-
ment Commissioner would be established by 0O0. The SCMC would provide
policy-level guidance and coordination, oversee the monitoring of progress
in physical and financial terms, and ensure adequate liaison and prompt
communication between the various State governmental agencies involved in
the project. GOO would, not later than August 31, 1983, establish, and
thereafter maintain, a State Coordination and Monitoring Committee chaired
by the Development Commissioner of Orissa, with appropriate membership to
carry out the project (see draft Project Agreement, Section 2.07).
47.     One of the difficulties in Orissa has been the lack of adequate
management information on which to base construction and operational
decisions. An adequate management information system that provides
accurate and timely information on both progress of construction and on
the actual operation of the HIP areas would be essential and GOO would,
not later than March 31, 1984, establish and thereafter apply a management
Information and monitoring system for project construction and operation
of the MIP-. under the project (see draft Project Agreement, Section 2.11).
48.     To ensure that completed MIPs are operated according to agreed
principles, ID would develop, for each ongoing MIP prior to completion,
a detailed "Management Plan." The contents and scope of the plan would be
agreed with the Association and would inter alia, outline the agricultural
services to be provided and establish the operating procedures, water
rotation schedules, and maintenance procedures and provide for the estab-
lishment of the Water Management Committee. GOO would, not later than
March 31, 1984, prepare and furnish to the Association, a model Management
Plar for MIPs and, not later than six months prior to the commencement of
operation of each MIP, apply a detailed Management Plan based on the model
plan (see draft Project Agreement, Section 2.08).
1/ Chak - a cultivable command area of about 30 ha irrigated by a water-
course.



-16-
49.     A major reason for delays in the land acquisition process has been
the lack of adequate and timely survey data over the MIP project area
below the dam site. Under current practice, surveys are completed fo- the
dam and reservoir, but not for the downstream works qhich, it has been
shown, take the same elapsed time for completion because of the compli-
cated land acquisition regulations. By completing a detailed survey of
the entire HIP command area including the downstream areas, in sufficient
detail for land acquisition and the alignment of :anals and watercourses
sufficiently early in the construction cycle, this major source of delay
would be eliminated.  GOO would carry out detailed surveys of the cultiv-
able command areas within each MIP not later than six months prior to
construction of HIP works (see draft Project Agreement, Section 2.12).
50.     A panel of experts in dam design, construction and operation,
acceptable to the Association, have been appointed in Orissa in the con-
text of an earlier project. 1/ This same panel of experts would ensure
that prescribed construction methods and operating criteria are net on all
MIP dams constructed under the project, including those already under
construction under the Orissa I project. GOO would maintain its existing
panel of experts to review the plans and designs of the dams and related
structures under the project and cause the dams and related structures to
be constructed under the project to be periodically inspected to verify
their safety (see draft Project Agreement, Section 2.16).
51.     Construction of these works would involve some resettlement of
farmers as dams and catchment areas are built. Orissa has satisfactory
policies and programs for resettlement. Displaced landowners are paid for
acquired lands, and displaced families (whether land owner or landless)
receive land and household plots according to GOO guidelines which are
satisfactory. In general, however, the number of people displaced by MIP
reservoirs is small because much of the areas that would be flooded are
already Government-owned and are not presently cultivated due to lack of
water.
52.     To handle the additional research aad development and training
activities under the proposed project, a special Research and Development
Cell would be established and appropriately staffed. This Cell would
plan, design, arrange and monitor R&D pilot projects and studies under the
project, and plan and arrange training programs for ID and related staff.
A Research and Development Technical Advisory Committee would also be
established to provide technical guidance and assistance in gaining coor-
dination with other agencies. GOO fould, not later than March 31, 198A,
establish and thereafter maintain, a Research and Development Cell for
assisting its Irrigation and Power Department with such responsibilities,
functions and staffing as required for carrying out the project and, not
later than June 30, 1984, establish and thereafter mainta.in a Research and
1/ The Upper Indravati Power Project.



-17-
Development Technical Advisory Committee with appropriate membership. The
Cell's initial functions would involve the development of work plans and
schedules for the R&D m-nd manpower development activities to be submitted
to the Association 'or its review and comment not later than September 30,
1984 (see draft Project Agreement, Section 2.14).
53.     Under the proposed project, the Quality Control Unlt within ID
would be strengthened and its mandate broadened to include 'operational'
quality control of completed MIPs in terms of 'design-versus-actual"
irrigation performance measurements. It would randomly check
design-vs-actual discharge at selected outlets, and similarly review
watercourse alignment and capacity, canal regulation facilities, measuring
devices and roads to ensure they meet the operational design specifica-
tions and requirewmnts.  GOO would take all action as shall be necessary
to ensure quality control in respect of the design, construction and
operation of MIPs under the project (see draft Project Agreement, Sec-
tion 2.15).
54.     In order to ensure that GOO resources are focussed on the comple-
tion of existing MIPs to agreed standards, no new MIPs would be approved
for construction under the project until ten existing MIPs have been
completed to full operational status and, in any event, not earlier than
March 31, 1985 (see draft Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, para 4d). The
project would be completed by March 31, 1987.
Project Costs and Financing
55.     The estimated total cost of the project, expressed in 1982 base
prices, is US$140.6 million including taxes and duties which are negli-
gible. The foreign exchange component of the project is estimated at
US$16.1 million or 11% of total project cost. The principle cost comr-
ponents, net of physical and price contingencies are: MIP construction
(US$88.1 million); land consolidation and OFD works (US$14.8 million); and
research, development and training (US$0.8 million). Physical contingen-
cies, at US$17.3 million, were estimated separately on each item and
average 12Z of total project cost. Price contingencies, at
US$19.7 million, account for about 14% of total project cost and were
based on expected domestic inflation rates of 8Z in FY83; 8X in FY84; 7.52
in FY85; 7.0% in FY86 and 6.0% in FY87. Inflation rates on foreign expen-
ditures are expected to be similar.
56.     The credit of US$105.0 million equivalent would cover 75% of total
project costs. As mentioned in paras 29-30 above, Orissa is one of the
poorest States in India with a very low economic base and severe budgetary



-18-
constraints. In view of this, the Association has recently 1/ financed
approximately 70X-75X of total project 2osts in Orissa and believes that a
similar approach is justified in this case. The credit would cover 100%
of foreign exchange costs and 712 of local costs. The justification for
local cost financing in India is given in para 26 above. The Goverunent
of Orissa would finance the remaining costs (US$35.6 million). The
proceeds of the credit would be used to finance HIP civil works
(US$90.0 million); land consolidation and OFD civil -works
(US$9.2 million); equipment and vehicles (US$1.8 million); and R&D pilot
studies and technical services (US$1.0 million). US$3.0 million -sould
be left unallocated.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.     Civil works financed under the project would cost approximately
US$77.3 million excluding physical and price contingencies and engineering
and administration costs. Coostruction of KIP sub-projects and other
works would be in small contracts and would be geographically scattered
in remote locations throughout the State. Individual CFD works are very
small, averaging about US$2,900 each in scattered locations and totalling
some US$2.5 million in all and it is considered highly unlikely that such
works would be of interest to international bidders. Although the work
would be aggregated to attract maxlmum competition from local bidders, and
Local Competitive Bidding procedures would be used, some works would need
to be carried out by departmental force account or IDA-approved work-order
procedures. Departmental force account works would not exceed 20% of
total civil works, and work-order contracts would be limited to $25,000
each and a maximum of 10 of total civil works in aggregate.
58.     Equipment and vehicles totalling about US$1.8 million, including
contingencies, would be grouped in appropriate bidding packages and
procured by ICB in accordance with the Association's guidelines.
Qualified domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evalua-
tion of 15% or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower, and bid
documents would specify their eligibility and the manner of application of
the preference. Because of existing servicing and spare parts facilities,
considerable advantages would be derived from procuring locally manufac-
tured light equipment and vehicles estimated to cost about US$0.8 million,
which are readily available domestically at competitive prices. Such
goods would be procured under LCB procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion and would be limited to indivldual contracts of less than US$100,000.
All bidding packages for works estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent or
more, and all ICB packages for equipment and materials, would be subject
to the Associationes prior review of procurement procedures -- resulting
1/ Subernarekha Irrigation Project (Cr. 1289-IN), financed 70% of total
costs, and the Mahanadi Barrages Project (Cr. 1078-IN), financed 75%
of total costs.



-19-
in a coverage of about 702 of the total estimated value of works and 80X
of goods procurement. The balance of contracts would be subject to random
post-award review by IDA. The Central Water Commission of GOI has
recently developed model ICB and LCE bidding documents and procedures for
both works and equipment procurement that are considered satisfactory by
the Association, and these would be used in all procurement.
59.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported goods; (b) 100%
of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured items; (c) 70% of the cost
of other locally procured goods; and (d) 100% of expenditures on research,
development and training costs. Disbursement for civil works would be 60%
of expenditures for the dams and related spillways and 95% for all other
civil works. For land consolidation and OFD works in CAD areas, disburse-
ments would be at the rate of Rs 350 per consolidated hectare and Rs 460
per completed hectare, respectively, on the basis of Certificates of
Completion. Disbursements against departmental civil works, and other
civil works with payments up to Rs 300,000 each, and payments up to
Rs 150,000 each for equipment and vehicles, would be made against Certifi-
cates of Expenditure. The supporting documents for these payments would
not be submitted to IDA but would be retained by GOO for inspection by the
Association review missions. Such Certificates of Expenditure would be
audited annually by independent auditors and a report would be submitted
to the Association promptly thereafter. Full documentation would be
required for all other disbursements.
60.     In order that the construction of thL ongoing MIPs can continue
without interruption during the transition from the Orissa I project to
the proposed project, retroactive financing In the amount of
US$6.0 million is proposed to cover qualified project expenditures
Incurred after April 1, 1983 (see draft Credit Agreement,
Schedule 1,4(a)). It is expected that disbursements would be completed by
December 31, 1987.
Water Charges and Cost Recovery
61.     Water charges in Orissa have historically been very low, reflect-
ing the very limited payment capacity of farmers in the State. Under the
terms and conditions of the Orissa I project, water charges were required
to be reviewed by GOO and, although not required under that project, were
subsequently (September 1981) raised substantially. The basic compulsory
charge was doubled and the crop-specific rates increased 50%. In CAD
areas, water charges are adequate, but in the MIP areas, for a typical HIP
plot and cropping pattern, the water charge at Rs 66 per ha, represents
approximately 7C%-75% of the estimated annual O&M cost of Rs 90-Rs 100 per
ha. The increased water charges resulting from the September 1981 review
represented the maximum increase that was considered politically and
practically feasible at that time. Further increases will be required,
however,to meet the overall objective of recovering 100% of O&M costs and
a portion of the capital costs annually and GOO would: (a) not later than



-20-
March 31, 1984, undertake a study on the the appropriate irrigation water
charge system with the objective of recovering full O&M costs and a
reasonable portion of the capital costs and measures to improve the col-
lection of such charges; (b) not later than December 31, 1985, prepare and
furnish such study to the Association and, thereafter, taking Into account
the Association-s comments, if any, and also having regard inter alia to
the incentive and repayment capacity of farmers, implement the recEcmenda-
tions of such study; and (c) in the interim, review water charges in light
of the Eighth Finance Commission recommendations (see draft Project Agree-
ment, Section 3.03).
62.     To ensure that GOO provides adequate funding for O&M works under
the project until the recommendations of the water charges study are
implemented, ODO would make annual budgetary allocations adequate to meet
O&M expenditure requirements for MIPs under the project (see draft Project
Agreement, Section 3.04).
Benefits, Risks and Economic Justification
63.     Completion of the ongoing and new MIPs under the proposed project
would add about 138,000 ha of irrigated cultivable command area. In the
CAD areas, irrigation intensities would increase to 170% and 159Z for
coastal and non-coastal areas, respectively -- up from 1532 and 140%,
respectively. The incremental agricultural production at full project
development from both Orissa I and the proposed project would be about
224,000 tons of foodgrain and oilseed crops annually. Total value of
production would increase by some US$46 million per year. In addition to
a higher cropping intensity, the project would produce increased yields as
a result of more regular provision of irrigation water with greater
reliability and equity. About 210,000 families would benefit directly
from the project and, of those, approximately 35,000 families would move
out of the -poverty' class (defined as less than Rs 840 per capita annual
Income). The project construction works would generate an additional
19 million man-days of employment over the four-year period. Farm employ-
ment in the project area would increase by about 9 million man-days
annually.
64.     The project's composite economic rate of return (ERR), including
sunk costs for the 18 MIPs begun under the Orissa I project, is estimated
at 19%. The NIP component ERR averages 14% and the land consolidation/OFD
work ERR averages 48%. The ERR for each of the 18 ongoing MIPs has been
recalculated using current cost information, including sunk costs and the
new, lower commodity price forecasts issued by the Bank Group recently to
ensure that each MIP is an economically viable investment. The re.jlts of
the sensitivity analysis indicate that for rhe MIP components only sub-
stantial adverse deviations from cost estimates (over 21% increase in
costs) or reduction in crop prices (about 23%) would make-the project
economically non-viable. A delay of one year in the construction period
would reduce the ERR to 12%. As this is a continuing project, it is
considered that the project risks involved are now less than those found



-21-
in the Orissa I project. The tuo issues that adversely affected MIPs in
the earlier project -- delays in land acquisition and increased costs --
have been addressed In the proposed project and further problems are not
anticipated.
Environmental Effects
65.     The project would not be expected to have any negatlve enviromienr
tal impact. The improved drainage facilities in the CAD areas would have
positive environmental effects. GOO would take all necessary measures to
minimize the hazards of malaria and water-related diseases in the project
area (see draft Project Agreement, Section 2.20).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Credit Agreement between India and the Association,
the draft Project Agreement between the Association and G00, and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for In Article V, Section l(d),
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being dlstributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
67.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed crqdit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by
Moeen Qureshi
June 9, 1983



ANEX I
IMrA - SOCrIL INDICATORS DA  SET                  Page      of  5
INDoA                    hE1fsaE GdmW (SQIr_  ri.)CES
AREA (INCRSAND SQ. KK.)                                           _____        RECENT_____ES____________
TorAL          32b7       _6N 1R08fIT                                  IN=             MIDDLE DiE
AG .mCULTD..    aIaNZ           1iW    lb   1970 lb ESrDAE lb  ASIL 4 PACRI            ASIA & FACIFIC
CDM PER CAPTL (M15)                70.0      110.0    240.0            261.4                  690.1
EmrC CmNSCprTIO PER CAPITA
CtOGCAMS OF COAL EQULVULEr)    111.2       15Z.5    194.4            468.7                  701.7
POPULATION ASI VITAL SrATISCS
POPLATION. 1-EAR (IS.)  43850.0   547569.0 673207.0
RBCS POPULATJO  (PERCENr OF TOTAL) 17.9     19.7     2Z.3             17.3                   32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPATI  IN YEAR 2000 (LIUS)                        9,.
SrATIOIARA FPOP.AMIKN (KIL,IORS)                  1694.4
YEAR SIATIOWE POPULATO  IS RCACHED                2l5
POPULATION IERIT
PER SQ. in.                   132.3      166.6    200.6            L58.1                  255.9
PER SQ.- K. ACRICDLTURAL TAPP   247.0    307.8    362_S            355.9                 1748.0
POPtIIATION ACE ST UCTUJE (PERCENT)
0-14 TRS.                       0.9       4Z.7      40.2            36.8                   39.9
I5-" YRs.                       54.5       54.Z     56.8             59.7                   56.8
65 ITS. AND BOVE                 4.6        3.1      3.0              3.5                   3.3
POPUmATIt ClOWTH RNAE (PERCET)
TOTAL                           1.8        2.3      Z t              2.0                    2.3
JRUS                            2.5        3.3      3.3              3.3                    3.9
CRUDE BIXIr HAE (PEIR ZHUSAJD)    43.7      40.0     35.6             29.3                   31.8
CRUDE DzAEr RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.8     11.7     13.6             11.0                    9.8
GROSS BEPRODUCrION RAXE           2.9       Z.       2.4              2.0                   2.0
FAIaLY PLANNING
ACCERTOS. A(NUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0    3782.0   5619.0
USERS (PENCENT OF RANED HIRER)   _.       12.0     22.6             19.3                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITlON
INDER OF FOOD PRODITIOIN
PER CAPILTA (1969-71-100)      98.0      102.0     99.0            106.1                  115.6
PER CAPTA, SUPPLY oF
CALORIS (PERCETr OF
REQUIRDWS)                   95.6       90.4    68.8/c            97.3                  106.4
PrrEIN  (GRAMS PER DAY)        53.6       49.7     48_    r         56.9                   54.4
OF WlMCH ANIML ASD PULSE     17.2       14.6    t3.11             20.0                   13.9
CNLD (AGS  1-4) E3TLALIU RATE    26.2       20.7     17.4             10.9                   6.7
HELM
I>FE v-CcAm= Ar BIRTH (YEARS)   43.2        48.1     51.8             57.B                  59.S
ISFANT DRTALT!n RATzE (PER
TOSAND)                         165.0      139.0    123.4             89.1                  63.7
ACCESS TD S.FE WATER (PERC3EN OF
POPMUAT}ON)
TAL                               .       17.0      33.0            32.9                   32.0
URBN                              .        0.0      83.0            70.7                  51.9
RAL                              ..        6.0     20.0             22.2                   20.5
ACCESS TO EECUREA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATN)
TOrAL                             _       18.0      20.0           1.1                    37.7
URBS                              .       85.0      87.0            72.7                  65.7
RURAL                            __        1.0      2.0              4.7                  24.0
POPULATIN ME PHSICLA           4830.4     4889.0   3630.6           3297.8                8540.4
POPULATION PER NCRSING tERSON   1C975.3/d   8296.5   5696.1         4929.3                4829.4
POPLATION PEF HSPTAL BED
TOTAL                        2178.7      1612.9   1311.0/.         1100.4                1067.5
UNM                              ,,         ,,     362.3fi         301.3                  651.6
RAL                              .               10432.8re        5815.7                 2597.6
AEMISSIONS MR HOSPITAL BED                                                                  27.0
HOUSING
AVEMCE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOrAL                           5.2        5.6      5.2
WIu5NA                          5.2        5.6      4.8
ILRAL                           5.2        5.6       5.3
AVERACE NUMNER OF PERSONS PER NOOK
*UOrAL                          2.6        2.8
URBAN                           Z6         2.8
RURAL                           2.6        2.8
ACCESS TD ELEC7ICITY (PERCENT
OF iELCNGS)
TOTAL                            ..         ..
RURAL                            ..         ..
RURA L                           ..         ..        .                ..



ANNEX I
Page ZAof 5
nmu~~~~~~ 
INDDS                   IZ1UZNCI  m.zz S   ixU iW1
mm   ccm                                 IW   M  31
96O /b   1970 /bTMKA=C lb  AA & PACZFC                AM      c
IDDCATI
-S M;EMO   RVATOS
PruInA:    TOMAL               61.0       73.0      75.01C           37.4                  96.2
MALE               60.0       90.0      W2.aa           101.0                  99.3
FINAE             o40.0       56.0      63.dE           57.3                   32.1
sgcaumz  TOZAL                 20.0       26.0      27.3/c           53.0                  37.6
MALZ               30.0       36.0      36.0/            63.3                  41.1
FEMALE             10.0       15.0      17.0/i          41.3                   34.1
WOCATIOAL EZAL. r     (oF szcinAn   6.0      1.0       0.7/            1.7                   20.e
eCPL-TEhCHR RAT=I
2321*1?                        46.1       41.5      31.6/C          37.7                   35.3
SICOSDARA                      16.0       20.9         .-            20.2                  25.0
AOMT LITERAL? NAME (JPT3        Z2O.        33.4    3E.0               52.1                  73.1
PA        cml PI  HUSAus
0.6        1.1      1.3/c            1.5                   9.6
RADIO NERS HZ -DIam
POICIAZOX                       4.9       21.5      33.6            35.4                  16.5
.v cUV    HZ INOWAM
POPULA2105                      0.0        0.0       1.0             3.2                   37.6
INgERAPRTA C-DAZIY GURAL
Is=r=) crccOuzow Hi
USAm RORUAXO                     16   t 6.0           19.8            14.4                   53.7
CZWIA 3* ATZ            HR CAPITA  4.1       4.1       3.7             3.4                    2.8
LAT0I FORCE
;           FOgcz (Uusbo)  165951.1   21919    264 1.4.
FENAZZ (PRCER)                 30.7       32.5     31.3             29.5                   33.i
AGRIC-RK CPECEKI)              74.0       74.0      69.3            70.0                   32.2
DWS EtCD[rl)               11.0       1t.0     13.2             U3.0                   17.9
PANTICIPATION RNAE CnRUT)
TO.AL                            41.B       40.0      39.2            40.0                   36.5
wAE                              357.0      52.4      31.8            51.6                   50.5
FEMALE                           27.3       26.9      25.9             23.6                 21.6
EC--6IC DIPERCT RATIO               1.1        1.1      1.1              1.0                    1.1
ICM DIST31INCTTON
PE3CE3? or PRVATE MIDOI
RECEVED Br
HIGEs 5 PER T 07 B0USUa    26.7           26.3/    22.2ff
HIHET 20 PERCM  aF I SR     51.7          4S.9A    49.4a
OIwEST 20 PERCENT or BOU0l3    4.1         67        7.0/.
LinEST 40 PMC    or nDCusu     13.6       17.:    16.2/.
POVER?? TARCET CGRUS
ESTIATD ASOLUT POERT DCO
LEVL   SS PR CAKTA)
MS                               ..         ..       2.0            133.8                 L94.7
RURAL                            ..         ..     14.0             111.1                 155.1
ESI ED RJELATF  POVERT I
tRELL CMSS PR CAPTA)
A                                ..         ..        ..              ..                  171.2
RURAL                            ..         ..        ..              ..                  164.9
ESTM     POPMAN DELD ABS0LUTE
POVERTY IlRCR LUEVL (ErCEN)
URBAN                            ..         ..      40.3            43.8                   24.4
RURAL                            ..         ..      50.7            51.7                   41.1
Not avalable
Not appliceble.
NOYPS
/a  The group aveagme for each laikator are populou-umigbzad ari _atfo mmma. Coveagef o          s
mong the indecatore delpeadn avaibility of data and in not umnforz.
/b  Unlea othmrwi_ noted. data for 1960 refer to any Yer betwes 1959 and 1961; far 1970. betwen 1969
and 1971; and for lout RecentEstimate, bre_m 1976 md 1960.
/c  1977; /d 1962; i. 1976; If 1975; jL 1964-65.
RaE. 196B2



iai -u-                                                               n.ua3--3is s--n   =                *13.51  _T-s= =-
Am _Z [ _ q-.t-_                                                     n- - q   M-a-i- TWT -t            *           a-  d-
-9-1-30   1"-K S-                         -I.Aw mmm.-. j. -aw- An pw~~~~vp -s-Isa -  s-arnsu 
55555C ..g s-a _-a-  p'5'3                                          .-uLu. miu-ag P a-_ T-Su a-u, _u.ssI4   -T-*
.1 J-                           e-is-si's- --
-a-I_  - i-u.1- XM  W   - ua  m- u.sv a     -   S a-5.a- a-
W-_      -  a- -   -               qI ts-u- p- -I         w a s P
-5-1P --  Aq                 t         - . S'a2.S as a p i--t
*-S                45  .s-   *  a-P v.~  _  3n-P-U S  Sis-iAt * a          '-    2 u  -P p
B*ts       J-               --*   -*-1                                PI --t -t 4a--    -  D    I- -   a 4 s-  A""  I- -a-  *- r -
s-ui    ts-'-q I--I ss-i La.s. ass-a- -u-11 s9-ssr-aga-S-s         u..s T-S'- '5  a.-s 3a J. us-rn.s4-ssas    fsau W a-.p-'
s-us a'uO-sw a- s-' 5u1% -,  --..au ---W          s -u              --, ss -8 s-    s-uK       .    -~ P-..-? -r      . W
ta-ia    i.3 P-a-* t  i-su -_ _SassA--  aS J. s-s    i-u.                   ITs    --, -a- W         _    p _    _V -  rass J. _AT   a*t
T-  ~~~~~~*<_JP-* -T    -I'--   -w         P                "_            -4 WSl3            _aj      -    _Wm  irs T-
- 5*Sia Ps-  is _- (555555 as.    i-u u--ud s i a-s u p-us-Is._        ss-us_s '_*i -         *-s q-     a-..a-      q a--as  -i       ass-
t_5*h   P5fl5   u-is-   -  --  _                                        1P -       u--*-  - t-sI t   usa*  --            * --    t_ -an
i-is-p1  5 T  sausi s-~ -s-u -us I   -   *-ss a-is-g .srn                        *      .. m1  aA   1   _   _ *  t_t .aal ass psu    Ta*  a-
- -. SW) 1-s-1                                 5          -  a-a5 P  ua r--v - (a--   -ia
si q. qu ada-u  '-a p 4n a-                 '--P-                        m   a_ s-u  *euu 'lqr  a .
1~ -t Si5    P 33      s5.adi. SaO  a  -.s- u r. i-ia-It.;            i-s-sa -ass P  .    a- -         s_ t-_ -   * _ a         -s        San
*PUS'ius                           *s-pl _ia  earn *Cq1uu 'u~  -an t-a t-. _u  *t _t
*- i.q.    3-,GT  V_ aga . a1 _.n r                                S  -=     -$v~ .- __
et Os is-us-i a-   - r      -     a-    "*as   3- 6 5                am          a- -      .i a- *Isq  t _ a=u -e- saa- *- am a-
515ua  S- 'T-`--A - 4   a                                                              -i .s- W -a- - Tl.sqs          a   sa           a pus
asmnsmx -ii Au .- u_: -- s-__    s'-'  'P  -   i3_ t     - u sa-P a- A            -E a-U
-P -a             -   - t-m       Wal- --  u---  sa- a-u-s. .* . 1-a
-                  '   l}-t t T  P   _                    D e~~~~~~~~-i!-ea ti-  ;ea                               -ss  UiK a- s-o_s OIs-uqurn a-i.C  n__pn'
P-   - Go a- 4.s 'a- a-1s-nsija "ua                   "-,               p.ULs ast -5S anA%q p     'Pt- qs. a   -a  ftu-  --W au-ag sa--
%_ r-a- . - -a-ss a                         i- --A Er a- .3-sdM s.-s a s-3  CZ a- s-  "a  s-  .3. u
V 'va i 3- - -T, f" v-."       as q. S. s-s    -.'ss-ta-a                  -V-s- -m  *s-a   n-us- aPs-" -La rn "usa Am  usaaa
'nas    _        ,Tusi.  q a  - s_  -1-u      -s-_ _s a-o s .aa-          -    s-a- a _m or l- _q paw"as    .  -  lr  J.
*_-l sartf.  1 a-as  A.     -        --, _. S.a  .T--                         e a  t-sp a  m A* nSri -.         -    a        __ tta. -
*p 1 a-w i.S _ni                                            5P uI.n _P-   ss O--uI 'I _ -  --Ji-_
*-'.-a  susI i--soa-   -b-3    a-   s ss         a                       -"iv- a- _ssi t-        n _-1 saa   *- a-
*.a-Ss     -5iss    .r.sa  sai -- W     as -           CiWTI         I         _''a           at  -5-Ta5  Sn      '"    1   qa-t   a-  _ -_
on-.W_                        "  -3 -on -                                tq- 'ati-A     __*Z 1eFl                    =t-m     q5="P  &
-as  eur fia- s-urn su1 13--3 s.rnt 5.-  a- 40-u--ss Wi-3.s-u          -T-- s-a-  a- us-  .,xuSi - p-a iau A% P-s-;- .  
a-'ssu -'s.--ai -'.-P-1 is .aft a-as2- (iI~jO U                        --%""s `-.si"_s-P a9 ---  a- -5Ssu.s-a  a-ia .-a -slS"
.-'a-a -vu" rs-_ P- ai.,  -  -S -WT -is-ft                --s                                   -n   a- us          3  a .-ft"  a       -
-wes ml  - s-  -gui .u    _. -                   *u_ _        uas__ t  _ taa            n_  _      nt    -    -
.~~~~~~~~~~~~ t.as--S  -u    a s-isa -e  i'a -Iia   53            *55-   ia--   .-u_Psus  i13   a-| _.3 a-    -5si..
-ins. us-ass- -ui.5s-55q '-spis- a- a-S-si-   a- -'s-a a-..  -a  p-~ - P5u`""  p"` .Sa 'V   Is.a a -1       iaI'5 ad
.v-  _X an  taAm ~ S-  -W       -s-s              - S WEa _s  n--
1.0                 I-aw--B -w--n   --a                                                                 ..VWa--ia-    *s  "usa  _    a- s-is."
issa- *I- a-         _t          '~-tt--3n_.   rauad  a- *-susp   -n-u--  -c a-r  - a
-iI  -'a     s--a  i-arn. -_[1      _*       '"s- _ Ds -SOss             a- p-iY a- 3-3 _srnu s....a   ~-s 3a-   a- -us-
w  - _S   j asu_t s__ '  _ __Y _ - s-gi- s is . . a*~s--a-- *                                                               a--v
_,p_Z ss_a-ps   aL  _sue _ u-    3--s-as a- ls_as-a a-a. _s__ -Ia-st-ia.-tX 8
-~~~~~~~~~11 a-au  as _n  -eN (-s-rns. a-su _-s u.s--55  a-~a     u ~ P  rn.a--uss  -            as-SulCI a
-a-s-aii --srn  -pis-lisrni-i -su  au '1agrn-s-r       T-   -i '"s-rn' 'l-M rn       P    s-a-  ia   -a-uiu
__s-ssa  _- -a_ s     .i -      _"sss   p-ss a-ai a-sa- _ -         .as  a    -;   -   Is    -     _  npas   Si    a-s-a  - -usr     _ 
a -~~~~~-          -"ss-i?s-ur..-asua                           -psa  --:-us           -- ssln      a--'-ss          e-s-_555
I'  ~      "w t- Y- _3-  tt--  W   -a   P W Al                                                                ssTtg           Go T aOn
'Is a- _.asa. -s   ai It a- 'as--s al .as.- '--r                             a a--  _n      -   a-p _-_* T_  -~  _ s-S s-u'i .33_Y
3a-a ..-a     aI- .tS s-           -           -i a--  _ a__                                              -i-a - _T s a_ l              ._s
__--T  _                                                  u-                                               - m    -         u     u
* ~~~~~S_, _ -T,   _-12  *1_iig                                         tim   *- W                                      mst -
a- -s-a  - sA-  _-p-r   al i- *    -d  srn I-a-    s                   a-p-    a          aam *rn sI u_ -et i u  3)  - Ts
_>n AL W_sT_  aWj_ 1-g-J."   "          1-i  ad "s-a u53  I-a-- -. 3" - C's-'-a *                           a-- i -p  s*
a-%  s-SJ  -1      AL - 11-i-                                                Jos_s_T_. --   x       _ w- -         _    us-a_ -_-MRs
(513 a- a-. -st a-    a   saun T ssa-   -  aa555-                                                             ms,-Pm  a- -_i  mn -1-
*          "urn-s_ '     -s' -pa                          -              -  V a -    S ' T_9  ' _-a   aJT- _*   .-_ t_
e~~~-vIe  T-5                                                  _-8 t_.           s ji_1-' ws  - 1  _ .V - sT_d 
-    - a-u-  .  s           -  -s-       --. a    -a                           I TS-    -s.1- J - -  -1-a  i.s_-                _ s-
a   -is- .i-ss rnsa- -a-a-Fa- a-. "a-ni- -   -  is-a   Wa--xn.                                             -.5- mlisP- 'Mlr sOUTr '-1-j.
.BP   -3-A.-  . "us-u -   As.Ps  a-No Ssw. -_    "P_                      S-.a-s_a-r          *--     --,           '-- a-s _ -n    l  -T
S1_~~~~~~~~~~~~~-nj    A-J                                                                    --W ml P     -  3  _a -TS  M2 I_r-r"_ 
-a_s-a u- 'S.-u  a-us- a- -uIa-.-  S-ta-) a-r-                                                           "usI ' urn a- *-i  Ts-    i u-u_
a-as-u xs-5s-'  t-tCia-a-a  a- a-as-a a--xrn- sus-isp    a       Pa-s--l - -rn   -    -  -              -S_-sa  -111-W - S
__ _ _ ~~~~~~~SW=     _4 -.3t t_                                                                        imi             --t -  n __ t
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ _Pfif -aff  -324 -  n*, -fi-Gs*;te
cnta=    *s-- 1I-sM T_-i-iua-  --- a- .33- as us-a a- _ rnsa-   -i a i.   a-
s-s -   p-S-i  -s        .  a- ts-     -      _    -i a-__ a u.,--Pum-a-                                                       _T_1 a-
_   _ t   | _~~~~~~~~~--- _m-a *.d                                              -W--  W I   V_ ," loaa   _.
ni- --- s-, - ass1 -V-a a-* ' -F-                                                                                    T a-4-a  as-
rn-s        a a  *-          a-  a- .      -A-                 P-"          a_   W -t _ _  P      o -a  -I  -u   -        I
_-, _T -slu  a-ia - 1 - -  -a-     --nz- 1 ou                              -sa n-p -q_    o   s )  -_--  - 
s3-s-                                       At -sa- s  nsiLs-a  s-- x- ai - ss-isssa   -ss-a  u  -n  -sau-   saI- -.A  u- "uTI -as
-xs-a a- MIS- ra                 s     - - -s-, -- rn_-a-   i.  s-s  s-a  i-   s-aaIr _n                         _ S-sa ui -
s-Is-u ~  ~    ~ ~           T  5'-tn    t5-p      -es-is -IsaI- 'aY Y-s _-iI_sss a-1 -1
A--"" --11wa-a-s                                                             -n   - 1        a _                             i
...P       5  s    ii'  i-a  -~          r-- a-   a_             I  i=rna-p i-5   Is    a-a      -    naS- 55-am  Wa i3.
a-!_*i     _-as '"-t-s S,aas-n ts) 'isrs,sus-                           a  Ca  --a-C C:-L  _ '"ssnsas 'O_-fa        m 1-s-i a- -rn--
a- s-st_s-   s-a- at_-s -as-.  -       -1 ss-ts Ta   - _--             --s      ta   -    s-Ss- SI  a- s                   x- t-    pauss
~~~~~n~~~qm                                                              j-aa        _  _T_ o_ ST- _ ATa3 _-"   t_ _ 
rnuIas-. ssi-- -a- a  "sis Is u a-a- a-. - '                 m   -.--.. v"     a-  -is5-s-g            -g M. m   ---tda    - 
nm     -rnsia---s"                 -a 4T_- a- -q  1n                                                _- _1  V _   s-a             l _ 'Y T
t-    4-           WA.Tq A-eSa- s --sia  -             . as                     _m-  a-  -  -m t 0s                              -s-s
-u-a-i - -s-u-u  i's-s  - CPts-  tt ~5s-J  s-u-a -a*--i .sirR                                                                             - k
A. _-a- -_    "mils _  -   ". --W    -          -i, e  -u
*_ P-_ a-sp - .5 _'_J _ _ _  _--_T                                                            - a- Pi- u-Ca  P-                       --
s-u a- la-wxlaI   ~2-*Is   v-Ps-I-a-a  I-----                  a-l -  -U.1 -es-s ?.i-s -   "T --1.u     a-A    A15. a  Li
'a--us  a-rn--a 11- r-sg- sm-i.. - s~-a-ss-ri-. s-a- a                -sd -  u--u-   a- I. - 9~--au -l s- a---  n-s-s-i- a5-I a
-as-- 'a  -'asssi -Sp-  3--                                              --Msla--d _A.-avs S.ii a- -as-p;S Ih
-t-s-a- s-Isa-I T-ia- 'sia _~   '5aaa- 't -*s-s-Ius  5uSua-                    -ICa:         _                          .--s-
_-   -sU) a-S  _4 a-           -a-55 -  -s- --ua-a                          A1.T3-u 0-    'aI5v    Wrns- -         . A _-Ia' Ta- -
-n-   w Wad        7- V2_T         M  v- ._ ._    J.                MT -T P.-R                                  -3 _.l_ .2-MS
__  T_-J       V-a-      T_         -a-_    - a- rn_ _ Si                                                                          n     d
a    .-o -s_a  _vs-s-         u           s--  M a                  _         T V-  sI-   I-.-s           a-
-9 va  .I-   .as  -.5---aa  S -a   asaa  -s-us-                          "s-p --ur  as-  s-rnsu a- s-"- An-i .II.     a- .a-Wai  uSq - 
-rna-i -I-rg -i--sa--sua  s-s- -  P. 2-al-  Pa    -                      W        at--4   ---     [           - s-55i-l.-eS-     -me s-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-a3- -s-p  a- _u *-, as>                                                          -us _-t _  a -sss-
es-p a- AIIIs-is-   s - una..-a-s-sups as  s-us  a- a--a-as ia-ss  a-s-Isa-  a- Am    ~~ a-i-v S I - --   -i - asda Sa-a-
-9's- a a- a--           t- *s- a-_ ua               uw     s       a- 3      as      i_
.-s-a-  a--usu  -a  --saps-- -       al- ssj ~s-  --  s-~-   ua -i  .us-LIi- sai             -a-  u-d    - Si-s-i 2   is-  Ma(. Vfax
d-la aa - W880 p-In     -s   -    - v  -- a    Is-Zs  'a-  usSals-'sa    s5s-I   ai-a-i5'-Wp                              Pi      "1
-s-a-s    "s-Ss- Sas sas a-mas as-PC  IiTs-Is   -    a a-                   a   3ifA-           -    -i       i~ aas   sP-   si-U
s O  3sa
I UEINIY



AOX I
Few 4 of S
cG, PU3 ClTA  13' 11  5S250
CROSS BLTIOSAL PiowcrDCt IN 1951/82                                             ANIMARA  VI CIh (2. conetmt prie
US$ Bln     2                19SS15S6-1959160  1960161-1964165  1965166.1969170 1970/7-t974/
Gat . arket Prices         165.3B   100.0                      3.7            3.6            3.6             2.9
Cross Daestic Investment    41.74    23.2
Crass Ratial Saving         37.66    2X.8
Current Accmant Balance     -4.08    -2.4
OuI,UI. LABOR FORM aND       VwIT  31S978
Value Added (at factor cabor Frce If                     V.A. Per 1lw
usBin.            S           HU.        S               USS    Z of Ustlinal AvJrbe
Agriculture                 39.8            39.6          180.6    70.7              22D          56
Industry                    25.2            25.1           32.2    12.6             713         I1
Services                    35.5            35.3           42.6    16..7             833         211
Total/Averae               100.5            100.0                   0 rolW.0         394         Mc
COEIOT FDUICE                                                               -
General  _OwB er          of                       zentral caver_t
sXla.           o                  - of5L-.                         2 of GUP
9s /L 2    19811z  1977/78t-19611Q2                  l9-51iJ    1981112 19M717-1-9382
Current Receipta               285.77       19.6       13.1                           19.2E     10.1       10.4
Current Expendicres            230.36       19.0       IB.2                          155.0!    10.5        10.6
Current SurpLs/Deficit           5.43       0.4         0.9                           -5.7-    -0.4        -0.2
Capital Expendi*ra f1/         116.91       7_9         7.5-                          83366      5.7        5.5
aErtenal Asajetanee (net) d/    16.45        1.1        1.0
1T.  Trr AND PRICES       1970/71  1975176  1976M   1977178  197S179  1979/80  190/81  1961/82   Fay 192              b        19S3
(Us Billio outaandim   at enof period)
Maney and Quasi -rney          I10.2    Z2 .8   277.8   3Z9.1   40.L        7.3   55.5   625.5    425.S
Bank Credit to GavernmentCnet)   54.6     69.2    77.6    76.4    94.2   124.1   164.4   204.4   292.2                       353.5
Bank Credit to Coincel Sector 65.2    156.2   188.5    22.2   255.3   310.1   362.0   430.4   422.2                          487.7
favrar-e Or !.Jq- WW-".a                           Apt-Feb 1981/182   Apsi-7eb 1982/83
rey and Qard Nney
as 2 of CDP                  27.4      30.3    34.6    36.5    41.2    44.t    43.3    42.5
llolesaLe Price n
(1970171 - 100)             100.0    173.0   176.6   185.8    M.58    217.6   257.3   281.3            2St.7               257.3
Amal percentag  change in:
wholes-le Prie index             7.7      -1.1     2.1      5.2     -       17.1    18.2      9.3           10.0                2.0
Sak Credit to Covert (net)  15.0           6.3    11.1    16.3    16.0    25.6    29.6    19. 1             22.7 IV            2.0
Bank Credit to Comercil Sector 20.5       22.7    20.7    12.6    20.3    21.5    17.0    18.7             20.9 JI             15.S b/
a/ The per cap&ta GNP estlnsta is at senat &-ices. usng Unrld Uw& At2a  methodology. boom svzid 1979-1941.
All other coeverris to dollrs In dthi table ar at tbe awrsp mhag  rate prevaiiifn duing tb  period cvarsd.
bl Q'ick Estimates. Central Statiaticad Organization.
cl Comuted from trend 1li  of CUP at factor cast ser1as. incluin a  obeervation befare f1t  yew  ad o  observation after lat
year of lsted period.
dl Yorld Dank estiltes of net disburement; not _nce1sariy coesiatent with officl flwrs.
eI Transfers betwm  Cntre and States hav been nette out.
l   ll loans end advancs to tbhd partie  hav been netted out.
Percentage Iae frDM   d-srb 198t to and-lebroary 1982.
h/ Percentage change frou e rndc  1932 to enod-febroay 1983.
if Total Labor Force and percentage breakdot   frao Sixth Five Tear Plan. Tabla 2.6 ad A re Table 1138.



AIIEX I
gs 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAY:MEIS           1979/80  19SO/81  1981182  1952/83            MEDMMISE EXPLUTS (AVERAGE 1978/79-19811/82)
(USS MIni)                                                                                             USS sll1_   X
Experts of Goods S/            7.98   8.504    5.511    8.800               Engineering Goods            901      11
Xmports of Coods S/          -11.383  -16.119  -15.253  -14,801             Tea                          457       6
Trade Balance                 -3.435  -7.61S   -6.742  -6.001               Cems                         759      10
ISFS (nCt)                     1.042    1.365    1.120    1.088             Clothing                     556       7
lather L Leather Products   470        6
Resource Balance              -2,393  -6.250  -5.622   -4.913               Jute Hanufactures            279       4
Iron Ore                     352       4
Interest Income (net) kl         257     600      212    -128               Cotton Teatles               319       4
Set Transfers 1/               1.852   2.771    1.577    1.668              Sar                           104      1
Others                     3.789      47
Balance on Current Accountc     -Z54  -2,879  -3.833  -3.373
Official Aid                                                                Total                      7.986    1CO
Gross Disbursements            1.218    1.629    1.821    1.933             ETmRA DEIT. MUCH 31. 1982
Amortization                   1.,94   2.338    2.475    2.569
aSS billion
Transactions with rAFP           -      1.035     690    1.980              Outstanding and Disbursed             18.3
All Other Items O7              -740    -130  -1.075    -358                Undisbursed                            8.5
outstanding. including                26.B
Increase in Reserves C-)        -224      345   2.397    -182                 Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year) j/    7.204   6.859    4.462   4.644
Set Reserves (end wear) !/     7.204   6.532    3.498    1.703              DEBT SERVICE AIO FOR 1981182  n/ 0/ 5.9 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                  7IRD/IDA LnDI, as of February 28. 1983
Inports (Petroleum) _/         4.046   6.657    S.S70   4.68S                                                   VW million
IRD3        IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed        1.357       6.b88
Undisbursed                     1.B96        4,270
Outstanding including
UndLabursed                   3.253       10.958
RATE OF EXNCIAxE
June 1966 to sid-Decesber 1971    : D    SS1C00 - Rs 7.50                   Spot Rate end-*rch 1983: US$1.00 - Rs 10.03
Re 1-0  - USS0.13333                                         R  1.00 - W550.0997
.ld-December 1971 to end-June 1972:     US$I.o0 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 100 - USS0.137376
Afcer end-June 1972                     Floating Rate
Spot Pate end-December 1981             USS1.00 - Rs 9.099
Rs 1.00 - USSO. I 10
Spot Rare end-December 1982            USS1.00 - Rs 9.634
Rs 1.00 - US50O.104
41I Est iated.
kl Figures given cover aol investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loan  and charges paid to
INF. and mjor receipts is Interest earned on foreign assets.
11 Figures given include workers' rmittances but exclude official grant assistance which is included within
official aid disbursements.
mI Excludes net use of 11F credit.
nil Amortization and interest payents on foreign loss as a percentage of exports of goods and servicss.mnd currnt tranfers.
O/ includes commercial borroving.
pl Excluding gold.
%et of crude petroleum exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of726
THE STATUS OF BAI1C GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1983)
US$ Million
Loan or Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit  Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                        Bank        IDA 1/    Undisbursed 21
46 Loans/                                            1,568.0         -
76 Credits fully disbursed                               -       4,364.4
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                       -         30.0          11.87
502-IN    1975     Rajasthan Canal CAD                  -          83.0          13.99
521-IN    1975     Rajasthan Dairy                      -           27.7          6.84
522-IN    1975    Madhya Pradesh Dairy                  -           16.4          0.31
585-IN    1976     Uttar Pradesh Water Supply           -           40.0          8.55
598-IN    1976     Fertilizer Industry                  -          105.0          3.59
604-IN    1976     Power Transmission IV                -          150.0         10.17
609-IN    1976     Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.         -            4.0          0.98
610-IN    1976     Integrated Cotton Development        -           18.0          5.02
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation          145.0         -            52.44
1260-IN    1976     IDBI II                             4D.0          -            1.31
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                    25.0          -           17.08
1313-IN    1977     Telecommunications VI               80.0          -            3.68
1335-IN    1977     Bombay Urban Transport              25.0         -             5.69
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development            -           30.0         14.82
682-IN    1977     Orissa Agric. Development            -           20.0          4.01
685-IN    1977     Singrauli Thermal Power              -          150.0          9.62
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -          12.0         11.60
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                   14.0          -            4.68
712-IN    1977     H.P. Agric. Development              -           10.0          1.57
720-IN    1977     Perlyar Vaigai Irrigation            -          23.0          10.40
728-IN    1977     Assam Agricultural Development       -            8.0          4.81
736-IN    1978     Maharashtra Irrigation               -           70.0          6.34
737-IN    1978     Rajasthan Agric. Extension           -           13.0          1.37
740-IN    1978     Orissa Irrigation                    -           58.0          0.24
1475-IN    1978     Industry DFC XII                    78.5          -            3.86
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage             -          107.0         64.61
756-IN    1978     Calcutta Urban Development II        -           87.0          8.30
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                                      8.0           6.19



ANIEX II
Page 2 of 26
US$ million
Loan or Fiscal                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit  Year of
No.     Approval        Purpose                      Bank        IDA 1/    Undisbursed 2/
1511-IN    1978    IDBI Joint/Public Sector           25.0                      4.66
1549-IN    1978    Third Trombay Thermal Power       105.0         -           16.68
788-IN    1978    Karnataka Irrigation                -         117.6         57.00
793-IN    1978    Korba Thermal Power                 -         200.0         49.63
806-IN    1978    Jamuu-gashmir Horticulture          -          14.0         11.56
808-IN    1978     Gujarat Irrigation                 -          85.0         29.91
815-IN    1978     &udhra Pradesh Fisheries           -          17.5         10.53
816-IN    1978    National Seeds II                   -          16.0         10.55
1592-IN    1978    Telecommunications VII            120.0         -           28.48
824-IN    1978    National Dairy                      -         150.0         87.61
842-IN    1979    Bombay Water Supply II                        196.0        170.17
843-IN    1979    Haryana Irrigation                  -          111.0          0.10
844-IN    1979    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                    -         190.0         63.60
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage     -          38.0          9.88
855-IN    1979    National Agricultural Research      -          27.0         20.30
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -         25.0          9.45
371-IN    1979    National Cooperative Development
Corporation                                 30.0          6.07
1648-IN    1979           dam Thermal Power           50.0         -           50.00
874-IN    1979      aagundan Thermal Power            -         200.0         52.90
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                  -         129.0         68.92
899-IN    1979    Naharashtra Water Supply            -          48.0         17.49
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II     -          175.0        26.76
925-IN    1979    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry       -          23.0           9.77
954-IN    1980   lNaharashtra Irrigation II           -         210.0         99.51
961-IN    1980    Gujarat Commmity Forestry           -          37.0         18.45
963-IN    1980    Inland Fisheries                    -          20.0         18.29
981-IN    1980    Population II                       -           46.0        39.48
1003-IN    1980    Tamil Nadu Nutrition                -          32.0         25.95
1004-IN    1980    U.P. Tubewells                      -          18.0          3.75
1011-IN    1980    Gujarat Irrigation II               -         175.0        132.77
1012-IN    1980    Cashewnut                           -          22.0         18.95
1027-IN    1980    Singrauli Thermal II                -         300.0        221.29
1028-IN    1980    Kerala Agricultural Extenasion      -          10.0          8.99
1033-IN    1980    Calcutta Urban Transport            -          56.0         30.35
1034-IN    1980    Karnataka Sericulture               -          54.0         44.68
1046-IN    1980    Rajastban Water Supply
and Sewerage                     -          80.0          64.42
1843-IN    1980    Industry DFC XIII                 100.0         -           15.29



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 26
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                        Bank        IDA 1/    Undisbursed 2/
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power               25.0         -            25.00
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                -         225.0         179.32
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0         -           25.30
1925-IN    1981     Bombay High Offshore
Development                     400.0         -           42.02
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                    -          35.0          28.17
1078-IN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                    -          83.0          77.59
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II          -          42.0          29.88
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Medium Irrigation               -         140.0         132.36
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII              -         314.0         210.79
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation            -          54.0          53.85
1125-IN    1981     Hazira Fertilizer Project            -         400.0         344.72
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.        -          23.0          21.75
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.         -          28.0          25.25
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II            -          37.0          36.27
1146-IN    1981     National C'operative
Development Corp. II              -          125.0        109.46
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II       -         400.0        366.87
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation      -         220.0        206.58
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint               100.0                      81.29
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry          -          29.0          26.86
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development             -          25.0          23.37
2051-IN    1982     icici xiv                          150.0         -           124.82
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Power II        300.0         -          300.00
2095-IN    1982     ARDC IV                            190.0         -           190.00
1209-IN    1982     ARDC IV                              -         160.0          23.34
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                         -            6.0          5.80
2123-IN    1982     Refineries RationalizatIon         200.0         -           181.91
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III          304.5         -           300.00
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                  20.3         -           20.00
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   -          60.0          48.41
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                 -          72.0          71.45
1286-IN    1983     Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry           -           33.0         31.70
1288-IN    1983     Chaibal Madhya Pradesh
Irrigation II                     -           31.0         31.00
1289-IN    1983     Subernarel-ha Irrigation             -         127.0        123.26
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration       165.5         -           163.05
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0         -          197.04
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    -          200.0        200.00



ANNEX II
Page 4of 26
US$ mlllion
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                        Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2f
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development*    222.3           -          222.30
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II*                -          150.0         150.00
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubewells II*             -          101.0        101.00
Total                                    4,b83.1    i1,44(.b
of which has been repaid              1,211.8        120.4
Total now outstanding                   3,471.3    1,2.
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    1X3.8         -
Total now held by Baik and IDA 3/       3,471.3    11,326.2
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          1,854.3     4,052.3
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their US dollar
equivalents, as established at t:-2 time of Credit negotiations and as subsequently
presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative dis-
bursements converted to their US dollar equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate (1 SDR   US$1.07867) in effect on March 31, 1983.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 26
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                      Loan      Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5         -       1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.9         -       0.9
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                 1.4         -       1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2         -       0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6        0.4      1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8        0.4      1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8        1.3     13.1
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.             1.0        0.3      1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1        0.1       1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1        3.8     18.9
1976            Escorts LmInted                        6.6         -       6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                           4.0        1.2       5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer ard
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5       1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertili%ers Limited        15.9                15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0           -      38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Linited            15.0         -      15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.            2.9        0.3      3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited              2.3         -       2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited               1.5        0.2      1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                 28.0         -      28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            18.8         -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             16.3         -      16.3
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.            8.5         -       8.5
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS        208.3       12.1    220.4
Less:   Sold                          53.0       3.2      56.2
Repaid                       28.3         -      28.3
Cancelled                    15.9        1.4     17.3
Now Held                    111.1        7.5    118.6
Undisbursed                  93.1        0.2     93.3
.,_s=    ,=      _==m



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 26
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1983)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$1,245 million In FY82, compared to
US$962 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1983 total US$1,008 million, representing an increase
of about 17X over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline as of
March 31, 1983, is US$5,907 million.
Ln. No. 1475  Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, .1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051 Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$150 million loan of October 8, 1951;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981; Closing Date: Marchi 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, often In the high technology fields and are also mostly
export-oriented. Disbursements are on schedule for the twelfth loan and
ahead of schedule for the thirteenth and fourteenth loans.
Ln. No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problem3 which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 26
Ln. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 has been completed and was closed on March 31, 1983. Dis-
bursements are expected to be completed by the end of April 1983.
Loan 1511 is nearly complete and was also scheduled to close on
March 31, 1983. Although project implementation has been satisfactory, a
small number of sub-projects remAin unfinished. Following a detailed review
of the projecc by a Bank mission in April, a short extension of the closing
date will be made to allow completion of these sub-projects and full disbur-
sement of the loan proceeds.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, l98.5
Project progress is good. Land acquisition has been completed and
construction began in July 1982. Basic engineering work was completed on
schedule at the end of August. Procurement is proceeding as planned.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1  1976; Closin
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1125 Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
Following completion of 37 fertilizer sub-projects, Credit 598 war.
closed on Deuember 31, 1982. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
the end of April 1983. About US$3 million in the credit account are expected
to be cancelled.
Credit 1125 is proceeding generally satisfactorily. Procurement of
all critical Items is on schedule. The need to undertake unexpected piling
and foundation work identified by detailed soil surveys delayed somewhat the
start of major civil works. This has now been completed, and erection of the
ammonia and urea plants s scheduled to begin in April-May 1983.
Ln. No. 2123 Refineries Rationalization Project; US$200 million loan of
May 5, 1982; Effective Date: June 29, 1982; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986
Project implementation is satisfactory. The conversion component
is making very good progress, with construction about to commence. Prepara-
tion work and investment approvals for the energy efficiency and pollution
control components are underway.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 26
Ln. No. 2205  Krishna-Godavari Exploration Project; US$165.5 million loan of
November 9, 1982; Effective Date:  February 28, 1983; Closing
Date: March 31, 1986
Lu. No. 2241  South Bassein Offshore Gas Development Project; US$222.3 million
loan of March 31, 1983; Effective Date: Expected June 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The Bombay High Project is progressing well. All platforms and
subsea pipelines have been installed essentially on schedule. ONGC reached
its targetted production level of 240,000 Bbl/day in May 1982, and is
presently producing 250,000 Bbl/day, 44% of which comes from project wells.
Initial activities under the Krishna-Godavari Project are about four
months behind schedule due to longer than anticipated testing and completion
time for on-shore wells, lack of adequate number of geophysicists for
processing the seismic data, and delay in initiating procurement actions.
These problems have been discussed in depth with ONGC, and they are in the
process of undertaking steps to correct the situation.
The South Bassein Gas Project is designed to assist India to increase
her gas production capability through the installation of offshore platforms
for drilling, processing, and gas flaring, and the laying of a subsea
pipeline to Gujarat State and the fertilizer plant at Hazira. Initial
procurement activities are underway.
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 19; Effective Date: October 2Y,          ; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Lu. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50 million loan and
Cr. No. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 26
Ln. No. 1887 Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
Cr. No. 1053  US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 19T7
Ln. No. 2076 Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172 Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,300 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations In the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793, together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 MW development, consisting of three 200 MW and three 500 MW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,
which also became effective March 16, 1982, support similar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053 assists in financing the first three
200 MW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stations. Loan 1549 supports the construction of a 500 NW extension of
the Tata Electric Company's station at Trombay, designed to help meet the
forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
All these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satis-
factorily. Construction works for the Singrauli, Korba, and Farakka stations
are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred in the
implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project. The first unit at the
Singrauli statIon was commissioned on schedule in February 1982, the second
unit in Oc?ober 1982, and the third in March 1983. The first unit at the
Korba station was also commissioned in March 1983. In the Third Trombay
project, procures.ent is complete and the generator is expected to be commis-
sioned in April/May 1983. Tata Electric Company's financial performance in
1982, and projections through 1985, are satisfactory.  Cost overruns, caused
by design T-:difications, price increases in materials, and increases in
customs duties, will be met by the Government of India.
Cr. No. 911   Second Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 2165 Third Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$304.5 million
loan of June 22, 1982; Effective Date: October 21, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
These projects are progressing satisfactorily with no major problems.
Procurement of materials and equipment is on schedule, and disbursements are
keeping pace with appraisal estimates. Detailed plans for the new Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC) training institute to be established in



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 26
Hyderabad are well advanced. REC-s financial performance continues to be
satisfactory. In the near future, REC-s major thrust under both projects
will be on improving consumer connection performance, which is lagging con-
siderably behind projections. REC is in the process of reassessing the
annual work programs of the State Electricity Boards, including an analysis
of the reasons for the poor connection performance, the setting of realistic
new goals, and the Introduction of measures to improve the situation.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112  Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan 1313 has been successfully concluded and was closed on March 31,
1983. Disbursements are expected to be completed by May 31, 1983.
Loan 1592 and Credit 1112 are both progressing satisfactorily and
there are no major problems. Initial delays in Loan 1592 as a result of late
procurement caused by a strike have been offset by accelerated implementation
during 1982. All bidding under Credit 1112 is now complete and civil works
are underway.  Institutional improvements under all projects have been
achieved and the financial position of the Posts & Telegraph Department
remains sound.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Ln. No. 2210  Second Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project;
Cr. No. 1299  US$200 million loan and US$200 million credit of December 23,
1982; Effective Date: February 23, 1983; Closing Date:
September 30, 1987
These projects are designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
re-manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and
to improve their performance and availability. The physical execution of
Credit 844 continues to make good progress. Procurement of all critical
equipment is complete and civil works are well advanced. Commitments under
the project total nearly 97Z of the Credit amount. Initial activities for
the second project are underway. The Indian Railways- financial and traffic
performance continued its significant improvement in FY1982183, and this is
expected to be sustained in FY1983184.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 26
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road netvork in Bihar.   is
proceeding on schedule. The majority of the equipment required for the
project has been delivered. Contracts have been awarded for civil works
totalling to about US$13 million and work began last March.
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033  Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with about 75Z
of the loan disbursed. Construction of new workshop facilities began in
January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan closing date may have to
be extended one year. A bus fare revision on April 1, 1982 increased
revenues by 20% and will enable the project authority to achieve its targeted
operating ratio.
There has been considerable recent improvement in the Calcutta
project, Including definite progress at the policy level in response to IDA-s
lS-woint action program to improve project implementation, which was
presented to the project authorities in October 1982. All 75 new tramcars
financed under the project have been delivered, an additIonal 60 should be
renovated and in service by December 1983, and the operating performance of
the tram company has improved substantially over the last six months.
Although the operating performance of the bus corporation remains unsatisfac-
tory, the recent appointment of three new senior staff members to the cor-
poration-s management and a new Chairman of the Board is expected to improve
operations, and there are now over 500 new buses in service.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1082  Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185  Kanpur Urban Development Project; US$25 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: April 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Physical performance in the Calcutta project is generally good. All
sub-projects presently under implementation are scheduled to be completed by
March 31, 1983. Following a review of the overall program for Calcutta-s
further development, the Government of West Bengal shifted its investment



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 26
priorities somewhat and consequently requested a revision of some components
of this project. IDA agreed to the suggested changes, and the closing date
has been extended by nine months to allow for completion of the redefined
project.
Credit 1082, is proceeding satisfactorily, with the exception of the
sites and services component, where legal challenges are causing delays in
land acquisition. The Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) is actively pursuing
the resolution of these court cases and has identified alternative sites to
be used so that the sites and services works can be finished by the project
closing date. The financial performance of the Pallavan Transport Corpora-
tion (PTC), the project implementing agency, is unsatisfactory. It is not
generating funds sufficient to meet its financial targets. An action plan to
cut operating costs, reduce new investment, and raise revenues has recently
been formulated and, subject to the agreement of GOTN, will enable PTC to
achieve the required targets by 1983/84 and maintain them thereafter.
Progress under Credit 1185 is mixed. Procedures to improve cost
recovery have not been introduced as agreed, studies on institutional
strengthening of the project agencies have not begun, and the project
authority suffers from a serious lack of staff with proper management exper-
tise. However, there has been considerable improvement recently in land
acquisition for slum upgrading, where completed works have benefitted nearly
6,730 households. Procurement is proceeding well and all physical works are
expected to be completed on schedule.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Following the completion of physical works, the project was closed
on December 31, 1982. Institutional and financial performance under the
project were unsatisfactory, and several of the implementing agencies mere
unable to achieve the financial performance targets which had been agreed
with IDA.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 84R   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 26
Cr. No. 1280 Gujarat Water Suply and Sewerage Project; US$72 million credit
of November 9. 1982; Effective Date: February 8, 1983;
Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Recent progress under Credit 842 has been encouraging. Preparation
of contract documents and drawings for the water supply component is well
advanced. For the 137 sewerage sub-projects, all tender documents have been
*          completed and construction is well underway, although there have been serious
delays on the two major sewerage treatment plants due to land acquisition
difficulties. Cost overruns are expected and IDA has requested the project
authorities to prepare detailed estimates and proposals for dealing with
these. The financial performance of the Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage
Department continues to be satisfactory, and all financial conditions under
the project are being met.
The closing date of Credit 848 has been extended one year as a result
of initial procurement delays. Physical implementation of the project is now
proceeding satisfactorily, and all works are expected to be finished by the
extended completion date of December 1983. The quality of construction work
is excellent, and the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board is proving to be
an effective implementing agency. However, there continue to be significant
problems with financial and operational performance, which must be improved
considerably if agreed targets under the project are to be met. IDA has
brought this to the attention of the project authorities repeatedly, and
plans to concentrate its supervision efforts for the duration of the project
on improving the financial and operational aspects of implementation.
Credit 899 is proceeding reasonably well. It has now entered the
full construction stage, and work is satisfactory. Disbursements are in line
with the appraisal estimates. The level of tariffs is adequate to achieve
the financial performance targets under the project. The Goverument of
Maharashtra is preparing detailed estimates and proposals for dealing with
the anticipated cost increases which have occurred as a result of delayed
start of construction and retendering on one major water supply facility.
Attention now needs to be devoted to the resolution of the staffing difficul-
ties in the Maharashtra Water Supply and Severage Board, particularly the
lack of financial staff to properly administer their financial operations.
Under the Rajasthan project, Credit 1046, the rural water supply
schemes are well advanced and engineering designs for the urban schemes have
been nearly finalized. Progress in the project has been hampered by the
Government of Rajasthan (GOR) fund allocations running at between 50Z-60Z
of annual requirements. A recent Cabinet decision has deferred the construc-
tion of the planned Hemawas/Kuri Pipeline to provide water to the city of
Jodhpur, in order to consider the possibility of accessirg water from the
Rajasthan Canal instead. A feasibility report has been completed. ODR has
decided on the alternative Rajasthan Canal source, which will be funded
without Bank assistance.
Initial work under Credit 1280 is proceeding well. The design team
has been established and detailed design of all sub-projects is on schedule.
The bid documents for civil works in Ahmedabad, one of the project cities,
have been approved and will be issued shortly. Work is now concentrating on
preparation of bids for materials procurement.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 26
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974: Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Lu. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite ProJect; US$145 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Perlyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project;- US$70 million credit of
October 11. 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 193
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31,-1984
Cr. No. 808   Guiarat Medium Irrigation Project; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111 million credit of
Augt 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
I   ; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108  Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 21, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987



ANNEX rI
Page 15 of 26
Cr. No. 1177  Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Prpject; US$220 million credit
of February 24 _1982; Effective Date:  Ap  i  1621982; _
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Ln. No. 2186 Kallada Irrigation Project; US$20.3 million loan and US$60 million
Cr. No. 1269 credit of July 6, 1982; Effective Date: September_21, 1982;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1288 Second Chambal Madhya Pradesh Irrigation Project; US$31 million
credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date: December 1, 1982
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1289 Subernarekha Irrigation Project; US$127 million credit of
November 9, 1982; Effective Date: January 10, 1983; Closing
Date:  April 30, 1987.
Cr. No. 1319 Haryana II Irrigation Project; US$150 million credit of
February 23, 1983; Effective Date: Expected May 1983;
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects- In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing pr3cessing and
storage facilities and village access roads.
Following unsatisfactory early project progress, Loan 1251 was refor-
mulated in May 1980, at which time project completion was planned for Decem--
ber 1984. On the basis of improved implementation performance under the
reformulated program, a one-year extension of the closing date is now under
consideration.
Implementation of Haharashtra I has been unbalanced, with emphasis on
major works. As of March 31, 1983, the original closing date, the large
construction components were about 80% complete, but there were major short-
falls in the minor irrigation and CAD works. Over recent months there has
been some improvement in implementation, with the provision of adequate
budget resources and staff, and the preparation of detailed work programs for
completion of the works. Therefore, a one-year extension of the closing date
is being considered to allow completion of all project components and hence
full development of the irrigation potential of the area.
As a result of cost overruns, the Periyar Vaigai Project was reformu-
lated in 1981, at which time completion was planned for March 1984. Accord-
ingly, the closing date has been extended by one year to March 31, 1984.
Recent implementation progress has been encouraging, particularly in the
construction of field channels. The project could profit still further,
however, from improved coordination among the various Government of Tamil
Nadu agencies responsible for project execution.



ANNFI IL
Page 16 of 26
The Karnataka Project is experiencing serious delays in command area
development and completion of construction of the distribution system, due
mainly to lack of proper support from the State Government and inadequate
staffing of the project entity. The urgent attention of the State Government
must be devoted to the early resolution of these implementation problems.
Although the Gujarat Medium Project is 30% behind schedule on
average, there has been considerable recent improvement. There is no longer
a shortage of field staff, construction standards have improved, and there
has been substantial progress in finalizing the designs of the distribution
systems. Disbursements, at 50% of the SAR target, are expected to improve
following the introduction of steps designed to reduce ineligible expendi-
tures. The GOG is currently preparing detailed implementation schedules to
ensure completion of the 23 sub-projects by June 1984.
The Gujarat II Project bar also demonstrated recent signs of improve-
ment. Staffing problems, which had been a cause of serious delays, have now
been resolved. The quality of construction work has improved, design
problems have been corrected, and the Water and Land Management Institute is
contributing significantly to the training of Irrigation Department staff.
Although the project remains considerably behind schedule and will face cost
overruns, all components continue to be economically and financially viable.
The COG is now preparing detailed implementation schedules for the completion
of project works which will form the basis for future monitoring.
Shortages of cement and inadequate provision of budgetary resources
continue to delay implementation of the Punjab Project. In addition, there
are cost overruns in the canal and watercourse lining components of about 15%
and 40%, respectively; and the study of water charges, due in August 1981,
remains incomplete. The Government of Punjab has repeatedly been requested
by Bank supervision missions to address these issues urgently.
The Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project is considerably behind
schedule. The sub-project appraisal process has been overly slow. While
there are 12 sub-projects now under implementation, approximately 20-25 are
needed to assure expected project benefits and full disbursement of the
credit proceeds. Moreover, the works are unbalanced in favor of construction
of dams rather than conveyance systems. Several significant procurement
contracts are scheduled to be awarded in April 1983, which is expected to
bring about accelerated project implementation.
There has been significant recent progrss in the NP Major Project.
Procurement procedures have been streamlined, several major ICB and LCB
contracts are expected to be awadrded in March-April 1983, and design work for
the canal structures is progressing well. The GOMP's planned intensification
of project activities during the current December 1982-June 1983, and the
1983/84 construction seasons, should be adequate to offset initial start-up
delays. Attention can now be devoted to completion of the resettlement plan
for persons to be displaced by project reservoirs, and to initiation of the
minor project components, such as roads, research stations, and the estab-
lishment of drainage and hydrometeorological networks.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 26
Credit 1289 supports an irrigation and industrial/water supply
program on 255,000 ha in the States of Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal.
Credit 1319 continues the Government of Raryana's modernization program
through the lining of irrigation channels and the provision of supplementary
water from augmentation tubewells. Early project activities are proceeding
as scheduled.
Progress of the remaining projects is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
Th project is designed to finance the construction of 120-160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka. The Government of
Karnataka has proposed a reduction to 87 in the number of schemes to be
completd. Project preparation has been slow due to serious staffing vacan-
cies and the overloading of senior project staff with nonrproject respoD-
sibilities. Design work is seriously behind schedule and construction has
not yet begun at the dam sites. The Government of Karnataka has been asked
to prepare a program to complete the scheduled works within the agreed
project period, together with a staffing and budget plan, by the end of
October 1982.
Credit No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubevells Project; US$18 million
credit of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980;
osing Date:  March 31, 1983.
Credit No. 1332 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells II Project; US$101 credit
of March 31, 1983; Effective Date: Expected June 1983;
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
The first project has been successfully completed within the original
closing date. In fact an additional 70 tubevells above the 500 originally
plannned at appraisal were constructed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by June 30, 1983.
Initial activities are underway for Credit 1332, which provides for
the installation of 2200 new tubewell systems, and the upgrading of 750
existing tubewell systems, based on the modernized design which was success-
fully proven in the first project.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: Septe_ber 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 26
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8 m1llion credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 390,983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31,_ 19IV~  - 19_
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala Agricultural Extension PrTJect; US$10 million credit of
June 25,1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137  Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22,_1981;_Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135 Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project, US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July_22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138  Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$37 million
credit of May 7,_1981; Effective Date:_Imly 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1219  Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project,
US$6 million_credit of_Nay 5,iiT82;Effective Date:- July 27,
1982; Closing Date: March 31,_ 988
These twelve credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in thirteen States in Indias In areas where the reformed extenr
sion system is in operation, field results have been most encouraging, both
in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop
yields.
In Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, significant gains have been made
under the projects.
There has been considerable improvement in the West Bengal Project
over the past year. Staffing problems have been resolved, and civil works
have started. Attention now needs to be devoted to improvement in fieldwork,
which is weak due to insufficient supervision of extension workers and poor
generation of agricultural recommendations.



ANNEX I1
Page 19 of 26
In Rajasthan, too, significant early gains were achieved following
the establishment of a well organized and stable extension service. Although
the quality of field work is somewhat uneven, the basic extension system is
well established.
Implementation of the Assam Project is slow due in part to unsettled
conditions in the State. Insufficient supervision contributes, Inter alia,
to lack of coordination among various implementing agencies, staff vacancies,
and poor understanding of the AEOs appropriate role in the extension sys-
tem--all of which result in Ineffective field work.
Implementation of the Bibar Project Is unsatisfactory. Despite the
decision of the Government of Bihar (GOB) one year ago to commit adequate
budget funds and appoint key staff, there has been no progress to date.
Staff vacancies remain, field extension continues to be weak, and civil works
have not yet started.
In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite
Agricultural Extension Project, the basic extension system has been estab-
lished and attention now needs to focus on the quality of extension recommenr-
dations and the filling of remaining staff vacancies. The Directorate of
Extension in the Central Government's Department of Agriculture needs
strengthening.
In Kerala, following the successful introduction of the T&V system
in three Districts, the project was extended to the entire State in December
1982. The recruitment of the additional staff should be completed by April
1983, after which project implementation is expected to accelerate con-
siderably.
In Maharashtra, project implementation is ahead of schedule. The
basic infrastructure of the revised extension service is well established.
Field workers are visiting farmers regularly and their recommendations are
being widely accepted.
The Madhya Pradesh II Project remains behind schedule due to delayed
sanctioning of budget resources during the first two project years. There
has recently been considerable improvement in implementation which is
expected to continue.
Implementation of the Andhra Pradesh Project has been hampered during
its first year by vacancies in senior staff positions caused by the decision
of the newly elected State Government to retire all staff over 55 years of
age. Promotion boards are now meeting to choose staff for the vacant posi-
tions. Field activities have been ongoing for about six months and are
generally satisfactory, although an improved orientation program would be of
benefit to staff at all levels. Civil works and procurement activities are
on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 26
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of Aprll 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project progress continues satisfactorily. Implementation of the
smallholder component, the project's largest, continues to gain momentum with
a 36% increase in plantings in 1982/83. One crumb rubber factory of the nine
included in the project is in operation and a further two should be commis-
sioned in late 1983. The cashewnut component is completed.
Ln. No. 2095 Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
Cr. No. 1209 US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
1982; Effective Date:  May 25, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDC-s lending program to farmers. The project is
proceeding well, with disbursements ahead of schedule. In July 1982, ARDC
and ACD/RBI were successfully merged into the National Bank for Agriculture
and Rural Development (NABARI). The merger was carried out efficiently,
permitting operations to continue uninterrupted. The loan recovery perfor-
mance of the State Land Development Banks during 1981/82 was weak. NABARD
has introduced rehabilitation programs and management studies designed to
improve loan recovery and the overall performance of the participating banks.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 19 3
The project has made significant progress over the last six months.
Contact has improved with the State agricultural universities, where there is
considerable enthusiasm for NARP objectives. Implementation of sub-projects
In Haryana, Kerala and Tamil Nadu is proceeding on schedule. The basic
research projects, although satisfactory thus far, need to focus their atten-
tion on local needs and proble-roriented multi-disciplinary research.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project was revised in Nay 1982 to provide additional bag storage
capacity in lieu of the bulk storage component. A one-year extension of the
closing date was granted, with the possibility of further extension if
project implementation improved. The project continues to be considerably
behind schedule. However, implementation has gained some momentum since
September 1982, when specific targets were established for accomplishment of
certain project works by June 1983. Land acquisition, construction, and
procurement are, overall, in line with these targets, but there remain
cficiencies in staffing, and in the monitoring, training and research
programs which have to be overcome to ensure satisfactory project progress.



ANNEX II
Page Z1 of 26
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 19B1; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godowns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing facilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India-s rural cooperative sector. Disbursements under Credit 871 are
on schedule. However, the construction of godowns has been slower than
anticipated because cement supplies have been erratic and the response by
contractors to tender offers has been poor in remote areas. Although the
project is expected to be completed on time, increases in construction costs
are likely to require a revision of the project scope to keep expenditures
within the project financing provisions.
Project implementation in most of the nine participating States under
Credit 1146 is also behind schedule, principally because of organizational
delays. The participating agencies have taken steps to speed up implemena-
tion, but progress continues to be hampered by lack of adequate number of
properly trained staff, supply shortages and cost escalations. NCDC and the
State agencies concerned have resolved to do what is required to speed up
Implementation of these projects.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 17; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat. Farmer response has been excellent. About
18,000 dairy cooperative societies (DCS) have been established, with over two
million members. Profitability of most DCSs is good and construction of
dairy and feed plants is proceeding well.



ANNEX II
Page 22 of 26
In Credit 482, construction of the mother dairy at Bangalore, the key
processing facility, was delayed by litigation. Construction by an
experienced civil works contractor has now begun. To allow for near comple-
tion of this dairy, and for the Government of Karnataka to implement improve-
ments in their management support of the dairy producers' unions as required
under the project, the closing date has been extended by one year.
Under Credit 521, nearly 1,500 dairy cooperative societies (DCSs)
have been formed, benefitting over 78,000 families. During 1981/82, these
DCSs collected over 30 million liters of milk, for which the producers were
paid Rs 67 million. The project was scheduled to close on December 31, 1982.
However, as several project-financed facilities are not yet complete, Includ-
ing two processing plants, one powder plant, four training centers, and
living quarters for staff, the GOI has requested an extension of the closing
date, which is now under consideration.
Credit 522 has been successfully completed and was closed on
March 31, 1983. Over 800 dairy cooperative societies were formed, serving
a membership of approximately 35,000 families. Disbursenents are expected
to be completed by May 31, 1983.
Physical execution under Credit 824 is excellent, with the estab-
lishment of new rural and urban dairies, cattle feed plaxars, and the acquisi-
tion of rail and road milk tankers. The cooperative processing industry is
served by 18,000 cooperatives with membership of over two million households.
In addition, substantial institution building is taking place through the
formation of federations, unions and cooperatives in 59 milksheds covered
under the Operation Flood II Agreements designed to ensure autonomy in pric-
Ing and a three-tiered cooperative structure.
Ln. No. 1273  National Seed ProJect; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects are designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States. Although they are two to
three years behind schedule because of initial problems in coordination and
monitoring, mainly at the national level, there has been significant progress
over the last year. The construction of transit and bulk storehouses has
been delayed by land acquisition problems. However, there has been good
progress in civil works and equipment procurement for the seed processing
plants. It is expected that all works except seed farm development und .r
both projects will be completed by December 1984.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September.3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project helps to finance cashew planting and plantation improve-
ment programs in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Orissa.



ANNEX II
Page 23 of 26
The planting and improvement programs initially made very good progress
although thls has been dampened in 1982/83 by decreased cashewnut prices and
Corporation land acquisition problems resulting from the Forest Conservation
Act (1980). There is still every expectation that the project will fulfill
its objective of significantly increasing cashew production and improving the
incomes of the farmers.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Prolect; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effectlve Date: November 30, 1976; Cloilng
Date: December 31, 1983
Project Implementation continues to lmprove. The area to be covered
by the project (183,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are increasing.
Major processing facilities in Naharashtra and Haryana are under contract and
work is progressing satisfactorily. The link between university research
and project activity is excellent. However, because of poor performance in
the early stages, the project closing dpte has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture ]Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effetitlve Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The recent significant Improvement in the staffing situation of the
Department of Sericulture should bolster the previously curtailed extension
program and should lead to increased bivoltine silk production which is a
major project objective hitherto not being achieved. All other project
components are progressing satisfactorily, especially the industrial cort
ponent where spun silk mill and silk filature are expected to be operational
within 9-12 months.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The recent change In management of Jammu and Iasbair Horticultural
Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation is expected to recoup implemen-
tation progress lost in the last 12 months, and about 602 of project
facilities could be operational for the 1983 harvest. Training programs and
research activities are now well behind schedule.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961     jart ommunity Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 1 , 1980; Efiective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1178  West bhngal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
Februar) 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 24 of 26
Cr. No. 1286 Jammu-Kashmir and earyana Social Forestry Project; US$33
million credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date:
December 7, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 19B8
Physical progress under Credit 925 is satisfactory, except 'n the
Eastern Region of the State, where greater population density, lower per
capita income and fragmented farm size have been disincentives to the plant-
ing programs. Remedial measures designed to address these problems, includ-
ing free distribution of seedlings and a planned land consolidation program,
are under consideration by the project authorities.
Credit 961 is proceeding well. In response to rising prices for
ples and pulpwood, the project has been adopted enthusiastically by the
local residents. The current rate of planting is more than five times that
which existed before the project. Project management is good, with cost
control, audit, disbursement and procurement activities in line with
appraisal report schedules. If the present momentum is maintained, it may be
possible to resolve the rural fuelwood crisis in Gujarat within a decade.
Implementation of the West Bengal Project is satisfactory. The
overall physical targc-s of the project have been exceeded. The building
program is progressing well and ahead of schedule. Attention now needs to
focus on the recruitment and training of forestry extension workers, who are
becoming urgently needed as tree plantings increase and project activities
accelerate.
Credit 1286, which became effective in December 1982, is designed to
lncre'se suppies of fuelwood and secondary products through the establishment
of 94,000 ha of a new tree plantations, the rehabilitation of 17,000 ha of
degraded forests, and the strengthening of research, training and forestry
extension services in Haryana and Jammn and Kashmir. Both States have made a
good start in implementing the first season-s plantation program, and
procurement of vehicles and equipment is underway.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; USS30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The recent improvement in project execution continues, and project
activities are well coordinated. Progress on the main Dholbaha Dam is satis-
factory, and the afforestation and soil conservation components are on
schedule. Feasioility reports for ten watersheds have been competed, five
of which have been reviewed and approved by the Bank. There are expected to
be cost savings from the irrigation and flood control components of the
project, as a result of which the Bank is now reviewing the overall project
design and concept and the possibility of expanding the project scope.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TN)          million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 25 of 26
Cr. No. 815 Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Datc:
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the harbor works are now proceeding well following the
finalization of a contractual dispute in September 1982. These harbor works
and shore facilities are expected to be completed within the next year. The
r       village roads and water supply components have been largely completed.
However, the credit component is considerably behind schedule as a result of
the weak financial position of the Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative
i       Association (GFCCA) and loan recovery problems of the participating banks.
Recommendations for Improvement of GFCCA are currently under review by the
Government of Gujarat.
In Andhra Pradesh, one of three fishing harbors being constructed
under the project has been operation for nearly one year, and the remaining
two are scheduled to be completed by mid-1983 and early 1984. The financing
of mechanized fishing vessels remains at a standstill due to loan recovery
problems of the participating banks. NABARD is in the process of discussing
with the banks ways to rectify this situation. Due to an expansion of
private sector investment in seafood processing plants, the Government has
decided to delete one of the two processing plants from the project and
reduce the scope of the second one.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
Project implementation is generally satisfactory. Construction of
the fish hatcheries in all five project States has commenced, and the first
hatcheries are expected to begin limlted operations by June 1983. All 58
Fish Farmer Development Agencies are fully functional and, as project
activities accelerate, are placing necessary extension agents in the field.
Progress of the pond improvement schemes has slowed considerably due to
difficulties with loan sanctioning by the participating banks. Through a
more active involvement in the loan approval process, NABARD is taking steps
to correct this situation.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June Z6, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. Marked improvement
has occurred in several components especially construction, now that cement
is being allocated to the project on a priority basis. As a consequence,
disbursements are accelerating. The Director of the Population Centre in
Uttar Pradesh has been appointed and the training program is well underway.



ANNEX II
Page 26 of 26
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutritlon Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980, Effectlve Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
The project is fully operational in Madurai District, with all nutri-
tion and health workers in place. Evaluation data sbow a significant decline
in malnourisbhent in the project area and the partlcipation rate for those
people eligible for project benefits is over 902. Civil works are a few
mouths behiud schedule, but the Government of Tamil Nadu has intensi fled its
supervision work which is expected to speed up completion of the health
subcenters and trainlng facilities.  Preparations are well advanced for the
planned expansion of the project into two more Districts in the State in
1983.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Tiue taken by the country to prepare the project
About one year.
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project
Government of Orissa, Central Water Commission (CWC)
Of GOI.
Cc) Date of first presentation to the Bank Group and date
of first mission to consider the project
September 1982.
{d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 1982.
Ce) Date of completion of negotiations
May 1983.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August 1983.
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Actions
None



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOO would establish, within specified dates:
(i) State Monitoring and Coordinating Committee
(para 46).
(ii) Water Management Committees (para 43).
(iii)  Research and Development and Training Cell
(para 52).
(iv)  Study on Water Charges (para 61).                           )
(b) Retroactive financing in an amount of US$6.0 million
would be provided for expenditures incurred prior to
credit approval but after April 1, 1983 (para 60).
(c) Disbursements under the project for new MIPs would be
conditional on satisfactory completion of at least
ten ongoing MIPs by March 31, 1985 (para 60).



o 2 c  v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L _                                                             a  B I
PAKIS-TAN    N> C I N A                b~    
Sv" v....w.a.f II flIWU&.s*.W&I-
I N  I A
Boil Of -2i                                                                 -           v -
Bo-gal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i2-  C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-~
Ls  <  .<0_ t ;
X2r                                                                   aAc4Ms  \  S
:   *
Imff                                          or,$R
, r     w      f              r      w      ^            .



IBRD 16796
a                          ~~~~~~~~~~~I)ECEMBER 1982
B        I   z'H                                                                                                       f ALACUTTA
e                                       3N i                      B                 N  G A-v
C'~~ 2                                /                                     :1               -        5
~~~~,,J-          '                     (0         ~        '
-                               Chmdsaa0      B.eaoi.h-d-
~~~~~~~~~~~~0  /
.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                   & n.  g -  a
-                                                                                                             2
Kf ,,ERS
INDIA                               ~~     ~~~ ~~~0 20    A0  AC    SO    lIj
7 ~~~~~~I N    D  I A  , Eeo0yw
ORISSA  IRRIGATION II PROJECT                                                            MILES
MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECTS
PROJECT:
*    Powtfiol Medium lrrigation Projes 
Command Area Devebpmnt                          [                        B IHAR A         EST
Medium Irrigation Projects Under Construction       M A) DHY A    f          L    J   '-
|  *   Exisong Mediu*m Irrigation Projects               PRAOES                              /
Existing lIigated Armos                             PiA- SI4                                 >
N      .               -      Major Roads
-   Railways
Rivers                                               C-
S tt Hsodqurw
o;o aCteis, Towns, Villoges'                                                    .^       rc .-
District Boudaries                                            '        -c-.
--- f sb Bouri esJ                                            _       .
--    rnatitionwl Boundories                          i-       z       '          AGROoCLIMATIC






