Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4448-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
May 31, 1983
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation II Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00      =  Rupees (Rs) 9.50 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM) 2/
1 meter (m)                               =  3.23 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                          =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                            =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mm )              -  810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 million acre-feet (MAF)                 =  1,235 M cubic m (Mm3)
I thousand million cubic feet (TMC)    =  28.32 M m3
1 cubic foot per second (cfs or cusec) =  0.028 m3 per second (m3/sec or cumec)
1 cfs                                     =  102.9 m3/hr
1 cumec                                   =  35.3 cfs
1 ton                                     =  1,000 kilograms (kg)
FISCAL YEAR
&OI and GOO                    April 1   -  March 31
1/  The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.  Conversions
in this report have been made at US$1.00 to Rs 9.50, which represents
the projected exchange rate over the disbursement period.
2/ The Metric System has been used in most cases. However, India is still
in the process of transition to the metric system;  non-metric unIts
are still widely used, and were also used in this report in cases in
which a conversion to the metric system may confuse the reader.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC        -    Appraisal Committee
ARDC      -    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CAD       -    Command Area Development
CADA      -    Command Area Development Authority
CCA       -    Cultivable Command Area
CWC       -    Central Water Commission
DAFP      -    Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
FSL       -    Full Supply Level
GOO       -    Government of Orissa
GOI       -    Government of India
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
I&PD      -    Irrigation and Power Department
ID        -    Irrigation Department (within GOO's I&PD)
IDA       -    International Development Association
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
M&E       -    Monitoring and Evaluation
MIP       -    Medium Irrigation Project
NABARD    -    National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
OFD       -    On-Farm Development
O&M       -    Operation and Maintenance
R&D       -    Research and Development
RWS       -    Rotational Water Supply
SCMC      -    State Coordinating and Monitoring Committee
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
WMC       -    Water Management Committee
GLOSSARY
kharif           -    Wet season; June - October
rabi            -    Dry season; November - April
chak            -    Watercourse CCA
sub-chak        -    Watercourse CCA below the 5 ha turnout
watercourse      -    Small channel below outlet serving a chak down to
5 ha blocks (sub-chaks), with capacity to take
full outlet discharge from head to tail
outlet          -    Structure connecting parent channel to watercourse,
with discharge capacity proportional to chak size
field channel   -    Small channel below the watercourse serving 5 ha
block down to farmers fields, with capacity to
take full outlet discharge
turnout         -    Structure discharging from watercourse to 5 ha
block, designed to take full watercourse discharge
warabandi        -    A rotational water supply (RWS) system of allocating
water among farmers by fixed turns and time periods;
flow rate is constant, and time periods are propor-
tional to land holding size
on-farm          -    Small works needed for efficient water control at
development          the chak level (eg., watercourses and drains); most
such works are actually off-farm
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND ............................             1
Introduction ......................................              1
Agriculture and Irrigation in Orissa ....       ..........       1
The First Orissa Irrigation Project ....       ..........        4
II.  PROJECT AREA ..........................................             8
Physical Features .................................              8
Climate and Soils ..................................             8
Farmers and Land Holdings ..........................             9
Crops and Yields ...................................             9
Agricultural Supporting Services ....        ..............     10
III. THE PROJECT ...........................................            12
General ............................................            12
Detailed Features                  ..                           13
-  Medium Irrigation Projects .....        ................     13
-  Land Consolidation and On-Farm Development ......            14
-  Research, Development and Training ..............            15
Design and Implementation                                       15
-  Medium Irrigation Projects ......................            15
-  Consolidation and OFD ......        ....................     16
-  Implementation Schedule .....        ...................     16
-  Improved Operation and Water Management    ........          16
-  Resettlement .........  . ..........................         18
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited
India in September, 1982 and comprised Messrs. R. Reidinger, Y.K. Choi, and
G. Mukami (IBRD); Messrs. F.M. Patorni and D.D. Taneja (IBRD/NDO); Mr. D.
Campbell (FAO/CP); and Mr. T. Wickham (Consultant). Mr. Martin Herman and
Ms. N. Mattson (IBRD) completed the project analysis. Word processing was
done by Mrs. Shirley Douglas and Mr. J. Maddix.



-ii-
Page No.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS ..........            19
Project Cost Estimates              ..                      19
Financing ........s........................                 20
Procurement          ....................                   20
Disbursements ............. ..                              21
Accounts and Audits  ........     .  ...23
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .........                            24
General   ...........................................       24
Project Coordination    ..............................      24
Medium Irrigation Projects ............ ............        24
Agricultural Intensification for Medium Projects ..         29
Command Area Development ..........................         29
Research, Development and Training ................         31
Quality Control and Dam Safety .. ..................        32
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting ..............         33
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND COST RECOVERY ..............        34
Agricultural Impact ...............................         34
Market Prospects         ...............                    35
Water Charges and Operation and Maintenance .......         36
Estimated Cost and Rent Recovery         .       .          37
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION ....      ..............    39
Project  Impact   .   ...... .......... .. ................  39
Economic Analysis .........................                 40
Sensitivity Analysis and Risks .......... ..........        41
Environmental Impact ............... .. .............       42
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....     ..........     43



-iii-
TABLES
1.     Status of MIPs under Orissa I Project (Tables la-b)
2.     Climatic Data
3.     CCA and Number of Farm Families for MIPs
4.     Crop Water Requirements
5.     Project Cost Estimates (Tables 5a-c)
6.     Estimated Financing Plan
7.     Estimated Implementation Schedule
8.     Estimated Disbursement Schedule
9.     Allocation of the Loan
10.     Area, Yields and Production
11.     Incremental Crop Production and Value
12.     Summary of Financial and Economic Prices
13.     Crop Inputs Data
14.     Financial Crop Budgets
15.     Estimated Financial Farm Budgets
16.     Estimated Farm Budgets and Project Rent at Full Development (Tables 16a-b)
17.     Estimated Project Rent and Cost Recovery (Tables 17a-b)
18.     Incremental Costs and Benefits
19.     Sensitivity Tests for MIPs
ANNEXES
1.      Proposed R&D Topics
2.      Main Assumptions for Economic and Financial Analysis
3.      List of Documents in the Project File
CHARTS
1.      Implementation Schedule (24663)
2.      Government of Orissa and Project Agencies (24659)
3.      Irrigation and Power Department - Irrigation Wing (24788)
4.      Typical Irrigation Circle (24847)
5.      Operation and Maintenance of Typical 10,000 ha MIP (24848)
6.      Organization Chart - Extension Wing (24662)
7.      Organization Chart - Agricultural Engineering (24661)
8.      Improved Turnouts from Watercourses (24083)
9.      Canal Regulation Pilot Project (24084)



-iv-
MAPS
Monsoon Rainfall (16794)
Soil Types (16795)
Medium Irrigation Projects (16796)
Radio Transmission Requirements for Medium
Irrigation Projects (16878R)
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA VOLUME (SDV)
ANNEXES
1.      Guideline Engineering Criteria for MIPs
2.      Outline of Design Specifications for MIPs
3.      General Guidelines for Design of Watercourses
4.      Guidelines for Preparation of MIP Operating Plans
5.      Management Plan Guidelines for MIPs
6.      Guideline Water Management Requirements for MIPs
7.      Project Cycle Procedures for MIPs
8.      Progress Monitoring for MIPs



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01     The Government of India (GOI) has requested IDA assistance to finance
a second time-slice of the ongoing first Orissa Irrigation Project (Cr. 740-IN,
referred to here as Orissa I). The proposed Orissa Irrigation II Project
(referred to here as Orissa II) would finance primarily a four-year time-slice
of the State's construction program for Medium Irrigation Projects (MIPs), as
well as land consolidation and on-farm development (OFD) in continuation of
work begun under Orissa I. The project was prepared by the Government of Orissa
(GOO) with the participation of Government of India's Central Water Commission.
1.02     Agriculture and Irrigation in India.  India has a population of about
684 M which is growing at an annual rate of about 2.1%. Agriculture contributes
about 40% of GNP and engages about 70% of the labor force. GOI has devoted
considerable resources to agricultural development, especially irrigation which
is a vital ingredient for continued economic growth and progress in India. 1/
1.03     The State of Orissa.  Orissa is one of the poorest States of India,
with an average per capita annual income (US$90) less than half the all-India
average. In real terms the State's per capita income has declined over the last
five years. Some 40% of the State's population belong to scheduled tribes and
castes, groups which are generally among the least benefited by the country's
economic progress to date. The State is predominantly rural and agricultural.
Agriculture contributes about 66% of the State's gross domestic product and
employs nearly 80% of the State's population. Future progress in general
economic development, and in raising the welfare of the disadvantaged groups in
particular, will depend heavily on increased productivity and income in the
agricultural sector.
Agriculture and Irrigation in Orissa
1.04     General.  Agriculture in the State faces difficult climatic conditions,
particularly with regard to rainfall. In the wet monsoon season, conditions are
often extreme, sometimes with severe floods, droughts and cyclones occuring in
the same season, as in 1982. In addition, some 85-90% of the annual rainfall
normally occurs in the monsoon season, leaving the dry season with too little
water for productive agriculture despite the fact that total annual rainfall in
the State is high (on average about 1,250 mm). Paddy, which is well adapted to
high rainfall and flooded conditions, is the main crop. A major potential for
agricultural growth, however, is production of diversified (non-paddy) crops in
the dry season, under irrigation. Increased irrigation and water control, and
1/ For more detail see the Staff Appraisal Report of the Haryana Irrigation
II Project, Report No. 4099-IN, January 5, 1983.



-2-
especially provision of water storage and improved efficiency for rabi irriga-
tion, is therefore a key ingredient for future agricultural development in the
State.
1.05     Agriculture.  Orissa covers an area of about 15.5 M ha, of which 6.8 M
ha is arable. Of this about 6.1 M ha is cultivated and the balance remains
fallow mainly due to lack of water. About 18% of the arable area totalling some
1.2 M ha of cultivable command area (CCA) is served by irrigation canals with an
annual irrigation intensity (the total of two seasons) of about 140%; irrigation
intensities at present efficiencies are limited by insufficient water supplies
available in the dry season. Orissa farmers have been slow to adopt improved
farming practices as indicated by the relatively low levels of fertilizer use in
the State and the low percentage of area of rice sown in high-yielding
varieties. Yields of most major crops, therefore, are low, and average rice
yields are only about 75% of the all-India average. Oilseeds are the major
non-food crop, accounting for about 7% of the sown area. The present cropping
intensities in Orissa range between 120% and 130%.
1.06     Production of rice, the major foodgrain, has virtually stagnated since
the mid-1960s. Rice production in 1980/81 totalled some 4.4 M tons; about the
same level as in 1973/74. Frequent failure of monsoon rains is the major threat
to agricultural production. For example, in 1974/75, 1976/77 and 1979/80,
severe drought conditions reduced rice production compared to the previous year
by 40-50%. As a result, the State is chronically deficient in foodgrain sup-
plies, and in 1980/81 had to be supported with some 720,000 tons of rice and
wheat from the GOI foodgrain procurement pool.
1.07     Irrigation Potential and Utilization.  Orissa has abundant water
resources that are largely undeveloped. An extensive network of rivers, streams
and drainages annually discharge about 100,000 Mm3 of water into the Bay of
Bengal. In addition, the annual flow of groundwater into the sea is estimated
at some 30,000 Mm3. It is estimated that the irrigation potential and the
present utilization of water resources are as follows:
Irrigation (in M ha)
Actual 81/82                  Potential              Percent
Kharif   Rabi   Total      Kharif   Rabi   Total       Utilization
Major           0.662  0.335   0.997
Medium          0.126  0.030   1.156
0.788  0.365   1.153        3.90    1.60    5.50            21
Minor           0.324  0.049   0.373        1.00    0.25    1.25            30
Lift and Well  0.040  0.025   0.065         1.80    1.20    3.00             2
Total         1.152  0.439   1.591       6.70    3.05    9.75             16



-3-
1.08     Major Irrigation Projects (over 12,000 ha).  Construction of major
projects began towards the end of the nineteenth century, when irrigation canals
commanding about 150,000 ha were built in the Mahanadi and Rushikulya Deltas.
During the first half of this century, the canal irrigated area remained vir-
tually unchanged. However, since 1950, GOO has constructed two major schemes,
the Salandi and Hirakud Projects, and substantially extended the Mahanadi Delta
system. The area presently commanded by major projects totals about 0.66 M ha,
and is expected to increase to about 1.0 M ha in the mid-1980s.
1.09     Medium Irrigation Projects (2,000-12,000 ha).  In the past, irrigation
development has been concentrated primarily in the more prosperous delta areas
of large rivers. This has resulted in uneven distribution of irrigation
benefits and regionally unbalanced growth. To correct this imbalance, GOO
started around 1960 to construct a number of medium irrigation projects (MIP)
throughout the State, particularly in areas where large scale irrigation and
groundwater development are not feasible. However, the financial and manpower
allocations to these projects were very low initially, which for many MIPs
prolonged construction for 10-15 years. During the Fifth Five Year Plan, GOO
began a concerted effort to speed up implementation (with IDA support) and has
continued those efforts in the Sixth Plan.
1.10     Minor Surface Irrigation Projects (less than 2,000 ha).  For centuries,
Orissa farmers have constructed small diversion weirs and tanks for storage of
local runoff during the monsoon and developed bucket-lift and other traditional
irrigation facilities. Such efforts are based mainly on local initiative.
However, they provide only supplementary irrigation during the kharif, and the
area irrigated varies substantially from year to year. Considerable progress
has been made in recent years, and the area presently commanded under minor
irrigation projects has reached about 0.3 M ha.
1.11     Groundwater.  Orissa's groundwater potential remained largely
undeveloped until the mid-1960s. Since the Orissa Lift Irrigation Corporation
was created in 1973, groundwater development has accelerated and currently,
there are some 360,000 private dugwells, 3,200 private filter point tubewells
and 2,600 public tubewells supplying irrigation.
1.12     Investment Budget for Surface Irrigation.  Expenditures on medium and
major irrigation projects have increased rapidly since the beginning of the
Fifth Five Year Plan. Between 1977/78 and 1982/83, GOO expenditures on irriga-
tion projects rose by nearly 300% in current terms. Past and projected expendi-
tures are as follows:
Budgeted
Actual                        Outlay        Projected
1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85
RsM      253.7    329.7    386.7    368.1    613.7        739.1     885.4     999.4
US$ M     26.7      34.7     40.7      59.8     64.6       77.8      93.2      105.3
The current Sixth Plan period will be completed in 1984/85.
1.13     Investment in irrigation has been given a high priority and currently
accounts for about 28% of Plan allocation.  During the Fifth Five Year Plan in



-4-
1974/75, the emphasis changed from major to medium projects and the proportion
of irrigation sector expenditures on MIPs increased from 41% in the Fourth Plan
to 59% in the Fifth Plan. However the planned proportion for MIPs in the Sixth
Plan declined to about 44%. Orissa has several major dams and reservoirs which
have recently been completed or will be completed in the near future (Rengali,
Upper Kolab, Upper Indravati, Subernarekha). Most of these are multipurpose
dams for power generation and irrigation, and power requirements are often the
dominant consideration in determining the timing of their construction. With
the cost of constructing these dams becoming "sunk", development of the water
conveyance network in the areas commanded by them will in the future provide a
higher return to investment than MIPs. Nevertheless, continuation of a sizable
program of MIP construction is considered essential by GOO to ensure a more even
spread of irrigation benefits and promote development in the interior regions.
1.14     Bank Group Support.  The Bank has assisted with the implementation of
several agricultural development projects in Orissa. The Salandi Irrigation
Project (Credit 14-IN, 1961, US$8.0 M) was one of the first irrigation projects
supported by the Bank Group in India. A review of Orissa's agricultural poten-
tial and development constraints was conducted in 1975 jointly by IDA, GOI and
GOO. The Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Credit 682-IN, 1977, US$20.0
M) which assists improvement of extension and research services and the Orissa
Irrigation Project (Credit 740-IN, 1977, US$58.0 M) which supports development
of medium irrigation projects, land consolidation and construction of watercour-
ses are currently under implementation (a detailed performance review of the
latter is presented below). The Mahanadi Barrages Project (Credit 1078-IN,
1981, US$83.0 M) supports construction of two new barrages on the Mahanadi
River. The Subernarekha Irrigation Project (Credit 1289-IN, 1983, US$127.0) is
a joint Bihar-Orissa-West Bengal project for developing surface water resources
in the Subernarekha basin.
The First Orissa Irrigation Project
1.15     General.  The first Orissa Irrigation Project (Orissa I) was appraised
in late 1976 and became effective in January 1978. IDA financing amounted to
US$58 million out of a total estimated cost of US$116 million. The main project
component comprised completion of ongoing MIPs and construction of new ones.
Orissa I was the first "line-of-credit" project for construction of MIPs. 1/
Under that type of project, appraisal and monitoring of individual MIPs are done
by the Central Water Commission (CWC) of GOI in accordance with criteria and
procedures agreed upon with IDA. It was estimated that, over the five-year
project period, about six ongoing MIPs and eight to ten new MIPs would be
financed under the Credit. The project was to finance also Command Area
Development (CAD), comprising consolidation of about 200,000 ha of irrigated
lands and on-farm development (OFD) works on about 57,000 ha of irrigated lands
in four major irrigation systems in Orissa. Performance under the project has
been generally satisfactory and project funds are estimated to have been fully
utilized by March 31, 1983. The major achievements under the project are: (i)
shortening of MIP construction period; (ii) institutional development--the
1/ It has been followed-up by the following "line of credit" MIP projects which
use procedures developed under Orissa I: Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project
(Cr. 808-IN) and Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project (Cr. 1108-IN).



-5-
build-up of CWC capability to undertake independent appraisal and monitoring of
MIPs; and (iii) expansion of the land consolidation and OFD programs -- Orissa
is one of the few states of India in which consolidation has been successful on
a large scale. The main aspects of project implementation are summarized below.
1.16     Medium Irrigation Projects.  Under Orissa I, 18 MIPs have been approved
by IDA and, except for one which is complete, are at various stages of construc-
tion. It is expected that, by the project Closing Date (October 31, 1983), 12
MIPs would be operational as follows: one MIP would be fully completed, four
MIPs would in operation with partially completed 5 ha block watercourses, and
seven MIPs would in operation without spillway gates or 5 ha block watercourses.
The status of progress in completion of MIPs under Orissa I is presented in
Tables la and lb along with current GOO estimates of completion dates. Con-
struction of most project MIPs has been considerably faster that that of tradi-
tionally constructed MIPs (7 years compared with 10-15 years), although somewhat
slower than anticipated at appraisal (5 years). The major problems encountered
with MIPs during implementation are summarized below.
1.17     Delays in land acquisition for canal construction have been a major
cause of delay in completing MIP minor distribution systems. Procedures for
land acquisition are specified in the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, updated in
1968. The main difficulties have been a result of the large number of
administrative steps required, inadequate communication between the various
administrative services involved in the process, and administrative delays in
the Revenue Department which is responsible for most steps in the land acquisi-
tion process. GOO has recently taken steps to speed up land acquisition.
1.18     Land reclamation (clearing and leveling) has been another problem area.
It is needed on about 30% of the total commandable area of each MIP which needs
to be cleared from natural vegetation and levelled before the land can be used
for agriculture.  host such land is government owned and is transferred to
landless laborers, who are expected to carry out reclamation work at a cost of
Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 per ha (US$100-200 per ha). However, landless laborers
have generally been unable to finance reclamation works or support themselves
while undertaking such works on their own; land clearing would be financed by
the government under Orissa II.
1.19     Improved minor system design and planning was a special feature of the
project, in particular the extension of the canal network to serve sub-chaks of
about 5 ha each. This is expected to result in significant operational improve-
ments compared with the traditional MIPs which provide only for water conveyance
down to 40 ha chaks. Traditional MIPs suffer from inefficient water use,
shortages of water in some areas, and waterlogging in other areas. Because of
the novelty in Orissa of the concept of 5 ha sub-chaks, there were at first
various shortcomings and delays in the planning and design of watercourses
leading to sub-chaks. These problems have now been resolved.
1.20     Procurement under the project has been on the basis of local competi-
tive bidding, because of the small size and scattered location of the works.
However, difficulties (which have been resolved) have occured in following the
Bank's guidelines, because several of the State's standard contract provisions
and practices (settlement of disputes, arbitration, liquidated damages,
foreclosure of works, default by contractors) and procurement practices (nego-
tiation of contracts before award) were not in line with Bank guidelines.



-6-
Procurement under Orissa II would follow model CWC documents and procedures
which have been approved by the Bank/IDA.
1.21     The cost of MIPs was estimated at appraisal at about Rs 11,000 per ha
(US$1,200/ha), including 20% physical contingencies, in 1977 constant prices.
Cost estimates in CWC Project Summaries, expressed in 1977 prices and including
20% contingencies, indicated an average cost of Rs 12,600 per ha (US$1,400/ha),
with the cost per ha for individual MIPs ranging between Rs 11,000/ha and Rs
16,000/ha for 75% of the MIPs.l/ Actual costs estimated for all approved MIPs
were reviewed in late 1982, and current cost estimates are about 35% higher than
those estimated at CWC appraisal.
1.22     Land Consolidation.  In order to alleviate the constraints to inten-
sified agriculture created by land fragmentation, the project provided for the
consolidation of 200,000 ha in four of Orissa's major irrigation schemes (in
commands other than the MIPs). By December 1982, consolidation was completed on
153,000 ha and was only slightly behind schedule largely because of the massive
floods which occured in 1982.  It is estimated that some 175,000 ha of land was
consolidated by March 31, 1983, and that the project target of 200,000 ha will
be achieved by the Closing Date in October 1983.
1.23     On-Farm Development Works.  In addition to fragmentation of land, the
absence of field channels is often a constraint to intensified agriculture. The
project provided for construction of field channels and drains, with the neces-
sary control structures, over 57,000 ha of the area consolidated under the
consolidation program. It was expected that OFD works would be financed by the
farmers, who would borrow from Land Development Banks and Commercial Banks
(securing the loans by mortgaging their land), with the Agricultural Refinance
Development Corporation (ARDC) refinancing the loans. 2/ However, as is the
case with most other Indian irrigation projects, farmers in Orissa were not
willing to take up loans for this purpose. GOO and GOI decided in 1981, and IDA
concurred, to finance construction of OFD works through the State budget. The
target of 57,000 ha was achieved by March 31, 1983.
1.24     Conclusions.  While overall the project has been successful, there have
been several shortcomings of which the most important are:
(a) The technical criteria for MIPs agreed with IDA were to enable
cultivation of non-paddy corps in the rabi, and to enable
delivery of water on a rotational basis. However, many
engineers still consider that irrigation is exclusively for
paddy. Accordingly the irrigation network is generally adequate
for paddy but not satisfactory for non-paddy crops;
1/ There were two cases significantly higher at about Rs 17,000/ha each and two
significantly lower at Rs 6,200 and Rs 8,500/ha.
2/   ARDC ceased to exist as of July 12, 1982.  The refinance functions and
obligations of ARDC were assumed by the National Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development (NABARD), a GOI undertaking which was formally con-
stituted on the above date.



-7-
(b) There is no satisfactory operational plan for each MIP; and
(c) With regard to land consolidation and OFD activities, it is
essential to follow an efficient pattern and sequence of
events, which was not achieved under Orissa I; specifically:
(i) Selection of areas for consolidation and OFD organized
to cover whole distributaries as a unit, rather than
parts of many distributaries at the same time;
(ii) Design of watercourses/drains starting in conjunction
with consolidation utilizing to the extent possible
the land saved through consolidation (about 2%);
(iii) Construction of watercourses/drains beginning
immediately after completion of consolidation to
avoid farmers occupation of the land saved; and
(iv) Enforcement of rotational water supply (RWS) immediately
after completion of watercourses.
1.25     Since the appraisal of Orissa I (in October/November 1976) there has
been a considerable increase in experience with implementation of MIPS and OFD
and identification of the preconditions required for introduction of improved
water management and RWS. In Orissa a pilot water management area has been
established successfully in the Mahanadi Delta under the Mahanadi Barrages
Project (Cr 1078-IN). A major objective of the pilot project is to improve
agricultural performance through better water management, RWS and crop diver-
sification in the rabi season, and a number of lessons can be drawn from
experience to date with the pilot project. In particular, for MIPs operational
control and communication will have to be maintained at a level considerably
higher than that anticipated under the Orissa I Project if planned performance
levels are to be achieved. In OFD areas, some improvements to parent channels
will be essential before reliable RWS can be introduced successfully. These and
other lessons have been used in designing the Orissa II Project.
1.26     Under Orissa I the emphasis was on improvement of design and implemen-
tation, since construction of the irrigation network to adequate standards is a
precondition to an efficient operation of an irrigation system. Organizational
aspects of water distribution were considered to be of secondary importance
since only a few MIPs were expected to be completed under the project. Under
Orissa II, the emphasis would be shifted to operational management and organiza-
tion of water distribution, both in MIPs and in consolidated OFD areas. GOO is
strongly committed to introduction of improved water management and a reliable
and equitable water supply following RWS principles but will require Bank sup-
port to achieve this objective.



-8-
II. PROJECT AREA
2.01     The project areas for MIPs are scattered throughout the State of
Orissa, but located mainly in the north in the rugged northern plateau region
and in the south and west in the mountainous eastern Ghats. The project
areas for land consolidation and OFD lie in the Mahanadi Delta command
southeast of Cuttack, the Salandi command north of Cuttack, and the Hirakud
command inland along the Mahanadi River near the Madhya Pradesh border (Map
16796).
Physical Features
2.02    Orissa stretches for about 300 km along the east coast of India
facing the Bay of Bengal, lying between the States of West Bengal to the
north and Andhra Pradesh to the south. Inland, the State borders on Bihar to
to the northwest and Madhya Pradesh to the west. Topography is generally
rugged, and most of the State comprises an extensive mountainous plateau
which slopes gradually into the coastal plain along the Bay of Bengal.
According to the physical features and agro-climatic conditions, Orissa may
be divided into four zones (Map 16796-inset): (a) the northern plateau (23%
of the State-s area) characterized by hill ranges rising to elevations of 700
m to 1,000 m and consisting mainly of the watersheds of the major rivers
(Brahmani, Baitarani, Salandi and Budhabalang); (b) the central land (23%)
which is generally flat with undulating and folded topography which rises to
elevations of some 300 m; (c) the eastern Ghat region (36%) with broken
mountain ranges interspersed with plains and valleys having elevations rang-
ing between 300-700 m; and (d) the coastal plain (18%) running from north to
south along the Bay of Bengal, characterized by a number of deltas formed by
rivers. The Mahanadi River in the central region divides the State roughly
in half, and is one of the major rivers of India. Most of the MIPs included
in Orissa I are located in the northern plateau, the central region and the
eastern Ghats.
Climate and Soils
2.03     Orissa has a tropical monsoon climate with temperatures suitable for
year-round cropping. Annual rainfall ranges from about 1,200 mm in the
southern coastal plain to about 1,700 mm in the northern plateau (Map 16794).
Most of the inland area where the proposed MIPs would be constructed,
however, receive rainfall between 1,200 mm to 1,300 mm. Some 85% to 90% of
rainfall occurs during the kharif season (June to October). Variations in
amount and timeliness of rainfall are substantial, w[hich makes supplementary
irrigation during the kharif season necessary for stable and high crop
yields. Intensive cropping in the rabi season (November to April) is nor-
mally not feasible because of low and uncertain rainfall (Table 2). However,
with irrigation the relatively dry climate of the rabi season presents a
major potential for productive diversified cropping.



-9-
2.04     Soils in the State are largely classified into seven types (Map
16794). Red soils (45%) and a mixture of red and yellow soils (35%) cover
most of the cultivated area, and followed by alluvial soils (6%), black soils
(6%), laterite (5%) and brown forest and mixed red and black soils (3%). Red
soils are sandy clay in texture, moderately acidic and generally low in
nitrogen and organic matter. They have low water holding capacity, and in
their natural condition they are not very productive. With adequate applica-
tion of fertilizers and manures, these soils are suitable for productive
cultivation of both irrigated paddy and diversified crops. Red and yellow
soils in the upland area are light in texture and relatively well drained.
With proper management and practice, these soils are suited for productive
cultivation of diversified crops. The soils of the low-lying areas are deep
alluvial deposits of heavy texture with a pale yellow color and are
generally associated with wetness. These soils are best suited for paddy
cultivation.
Farmers and Land Holdings
2.05     The farmers of the project area are predominantly paddy growers.
Most farm families have several plots of land, at least one of which is
suitable for paddy, irrigated or rainfed. Farmers in long-established
irrigated areas such as the Mahanadi Delta are generally reasonably familiar
with improved seeds, fertilizer and other elements of modern agricultural
technology. However, farmers in interior areas where most MIPs under the
project are located are generally not familiar with modern crop production
technology, or irrigated crop production practices for paddy and especially
for diversified crops. Such farmers traditionally cultivate paddy under
rainfed conditions in the monsoon season, and subsistance rainfed crops such
as pulses in the rabi season. Much of the interior area is inhabited by
tribal farmers who are relatively backward.
2.06     Farm holdings average 1.6 ha for the State.  In old irrigated areas,
particularly the Mahanadi Delta, holdings tend to be smaller averaging about
1 ha, and are highly fragmented, sometimes into eight or ten separate plots.
Under these conditions, land consolidation is essential for improving the
efficiency of farm operations, and to enable efficient distribution of water
especially for crops other than paddy. In the interior areas where most MIPs
are located, farm sizes are somewhat larger averaging about 2 ha per farm,
and fragmentation is relatively less, with the average farmer cultivating
perhaps three to five separate plots. The separate plots are generally at
different topographical locations which enables cultivation of a variety of
crops under different conditions. On average, Orissa I MIPs each serve about
3000 farm families (Table 3).
Crops and Yields
2.07     The net cultivable area in the State is about 6.8 M ha.  Total
cropped area is about 8.6 M ha (1980/81). Of this total, the major crops are
paddy (74%), pulses (29%), oilseeds (7%), groundnut (3%), ragi/sorghum (5%),
maize (3%), wheat and vegetables (each 1%) and others (3%). Total cropped
area varies somewhat from year to year (roughly 8.2 to 8.8 M ha) depending on
rainfall patterns. Wet (kharif) season cropping intensity is high. The



-10-
principal constraint to expanding cropped area is lack of water during the
dry (rabi) season.
2.08     Paddy is the most important crop.  Orissa accounts for approximately
8% of the rice and about 4% of all foodgrain produced in India. However,
rice yields in Orissa are low, typically about 1.4 t/ha for rainfed rice, 1.8
t/ha for irrigated kharif paddy and 2.0 t/ha for rabi paddy. At present,
high yielding varieties (HYVs) account for most of the rice in the rabi
season, but only about 4% in kharif. However, yields of rabi paddy are
limited, in some areas by lack of irrigation, and in other areas (especially
delta areas) by lack of adequate drainage and water control.
2.09     Essentially all the irrigated area in the State is at present used
for flooded paddy in both the kharif and rabi seasons. Paddy generally needs
two to four times the amount of water required for non-paddy crops, and
substitution of irrigated non-paddy for irrigated paddy provides a sig-
nificant opportunity for increased crop production in the rabi season when
water is very scarce (Table 4). At present most non-paddy crops, even in
irrigated commands, are grown with residual moisture following the kharif
paddy crop. Irrigation systems at present are designed and operated for
continuous-flow, field-to-field irrigation of paddy and cannot meet the needs
of non-paddy crops.
Agricultural Supporting Services
2.10     The IDA-assisted "Training and Visit  (T & V) system of agricultural
extension was introduced in Orissa in 1977 under the Orissa Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 682-IN). The T & V system provides for: reor-
ganization of the extension staff to work exclusively on extension in a
single line of command under the Director of Agriculture and Food Production
(DAFP); facilities and equipment to support extension and training programs;
and increased staff to provide adequate field coverage. The extension
project is progressing well and now covers virtually all districts of the
State. The primary field staff are Village Agricultural Workers (VAWs) which
at present serve about 800 farm families through a program of each VAW visit-
ing eight farmer groups (each comprising 50 to 120 individuals) every two
weeks. The proposed project is expected to benefit from improved extension
services provided through the T & V project. However, more intensified
extension services are needed to enhance agricultural production, par-
ticularly in areas commanded by MIPs where farmers have had little exposure
to irrigation or modern agricultural technology and practices.
2.11     The Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, headquartered
in Bhubaneswar, is responsible for agricultural research in the State. The
Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 682-IN) above supports both
applied and adaptive research programs along with the T & V program. The
Central Rice Research Institute, established at Cuttack in 1946, carries out
specialized research on rice for improved yields under different
agro-ecological conditions throughout India; it is sponsored and operated by
GOI.



-11-
2.12     The main producers of seeds are 85 agricultural seed farms (operated
by GOO), and the Orissa State Seed Corporation which produces seeds through a
contract system with private growers. In recent years, the production of
good quality seeds has been seriously constrained by lack of foundation seed.
The ongoing IDA-assisted Second National Seed Project (Cr. 816-IN) is provid-
ing facilities and support to strengthen the supply and distribution of high
quality seeds in the State.
2.13     Fertilizers and plant protection chemicals are supplied through the
cooperatives, agro-industry agents and individual private dealers. During
the 1981/82 cropping season, about 88,000 tons of fertilizer nutrients were
used. This corresponds to about 10.3 kg of fertilizer nutrients per ha of
cropped area, which is about one-third of the all-India average. Amounts
used of plant protection chemicals are negligible. Expansion of irrigation
is expected to promote increased use of fertilizer.
2.14     Agricultural credit to farmers is provided by primary Agricultural
Credit Cooperative Societies, Land Development Banks and Commercial Banks.
The amount of credit available to individual farmers is determined by farm
budget analysis. Credit is disbursed in cash and in kind depending on the
type of expenditure proposed. Recoveries have been low for all categories of
credit, on average some 52% of the amount due between 1977/78 and 1981/82.
2.15     Agricultural Markets.  Some 76 agricultural markets operate in
Orissa, of which 40 are regulated. Farmers use these markets extensively.
The government sets minimum prices for certain produce through its foodgrain
procurement programs. Private traders handle most of the trade and are
allowed to compete with government agents in these markets. At present,
farmers are charged 3% of the value of marketed produce for the services
rendered at the market. Markets in Orissa are generally adequate to handle
incremental production from the proposed project although in some areas
development of new or additional facilities may be required.



-12-
III. THE PROJECT
General
3.01    Scope and Objectives.  The project would consist mainly of two
separate activities, located in two different types of areas:
(a)  construction and improved operation of medium irrigation projects
(MIPs) at scattered locations in the interior of the State; and
(b)  land consolidation, on-farm development (OFD) and improved water
management (in OFD areas) in the service areas of four existing
major irrigation projects.
Special emphasis would be given to management and to organization of water
distribution for MIPs, and for OFD areas including those completed under
Orissa I. The proposed works will increase agricultural production, employ-
ment and net incomes in the project areas.
3.02    The major components would be:
(a) Medium Irrigation Projects (Rs 1155.3 M)
(i) Completion of 15 MIPs and substantial completion of
3 MIPs (serving a total of about 108,000 ha) begun
under Orissa I to standards which will enable reliable
and timely water supply as soon as irrigation begins
at each MIP; and
(ii) Commencement of work on about 6 new MIPs to the above
standards .l/
(b) Consolidation and On-Farm-Development (Rs 170.2 M)
(i) Consolidation of fragmented holdings over about 160,000 ha
located in four established major irrigation projects (not
MIPs), continuing work started under Orissa I;
(ii) Construction of watercourses, field channels and drains,
including small structures and outlets (OFD works) over
about 48,000 ha of the land consolidated above; and
(iii) Improvement of the canal network serving OFD areas of
Orissa I and II, as needed to enable reliable water supply.
(c) Research, Development and Training (Rs 10.8 M)
1/ For purposes of this project, new MIPs up to about 30,000 ha in size
would be considered for financing.



-13-
Detailed Features
Medium Irrigation Projects
3.03    Ongoing MIPs.  Under Orissa I a typical MIP comprised the following
works designed and constructed by the Irrigation Department:  (a) a storage dam,
usually earthfill, with gated spillway and canal headworks; (b) a canal network
delivering water to watercourse outlet commands (chaks) of about 20 to 40 ha;
(c) watercourses conveying water to blocks (sub-chaks) of about 5 ha; and (d) a
drainage network connected to major natural drains.
3.04    These works, which are at various stages of construction in each of the
18 ongoing MIPs started under Orissa I (including Dumerbahal which is essen-
tially complete), would be completed under the project. In addition the follow-
ing improvements would be introduced where feasible: (a) all-weather MIP access
roads; (b) limited all-weather canal roads; (c) water measuring devices in the
canal and distribution network; (d) increased canal regulation facilities; (e)
improved watercourse outlets; and (f) selective lining and canal profiles. A
modest building for meetings would be constructed at a central location at each
MIP. Most of these improvements are relatively inexpensive especially when
compared with total MIP costs. However, they are essential for achieving the
management levels required for a reliable and efficient water supply. Detailed
operations studies would be done for Orissa I MIP reservoirs using incremental
parametric variation to determine the economic feasibility of increasing the
existing reservoir sizes. Completion to full operational status at design
capacity is expected by March 31, 1985 for 10 of the ongoing MIPs, and by
March 31, 1987 for a total of 15 ongoing MIPs.
3.05    New MIPs.  The project will support initial work on about 6 new MIPs.
However, major construction works would begin only after the ongoing MIPs had
been substantially completed (para 4.12). The new MIPs will comprise the works
and improvements described above, and be appraised by the Central Water Commis-
sion in accordance with technical and economic criteria approved by IDA
(paras 5.05-5.09 and Supplementary Data Volume (SDV). Reservoir design would
utilize incremental parametric variation to determine optimum size. Watercourse
design and construction is in some respects more demanding than construction of
larger channels because of the relatively detailed design data required and
small tolerances involved. Prior to Orissa I, ID did not have responsibility
for watercourses, and they have only limited experience with their design and
construction; specialized training would be provided under the project as needed
(para 3.11). Construction of watercourses would follow standardized design and
construction procedures (SDV, Annex 3). Key MIP design criteria, initiated in
Orissa I and to be continued in Orissa II, are: (a) watercourses constructed
down to 5 ha sub-chaks; (b) minor canal and watercourse capacity sufficient to
meet peak crop water requirements for rotational irrigation; and (c) canals
designed to enable full supply to operating offtakes and watercourses with canal
flows down to 50% of capacity.
3.06    Land Clearing.  Land clearing and levelling would be carried out at
government cost under the project for land presently under scrub vegetation
(which averages about 30% of the CCA) at each MIP site. The cost of this opera-
tion is low (Rs 1,000 to 2,000 per ha) and speedy implementation is essential
for the economic viability of the project. The work will be carried out by
machinery and/or manual labor.



-14-
3.07    Communications.  For improved operational efficiency of MlPsS better
communications are needed. However,the terrain and distance requirements for
providing radio communications between MIPs and their headq uarters are dif-
ficult (Map 16878R).  In addition, the Irrigation Department has little
experience with the operation and maintenance or costs and. benefits of such a
system on a State-wide basis, either for long-range (MIP to headquarters) or
short-range (within an MIP) communication purposes, although in the major
Hirakud project catchment area it does have limited experience wilt1 special
radio facilities which have been used to great advantage in flood forecast-
ing.  Assurances have been provided by GOO that its irrigation Department
would undertake a study on better communications by March 31, 1985 and
provide the findings to IDA for its review and comments; the stady w,ould
examine various alternatives for better communications, including alternative
radio communications systems, in light of technical and economiC co.nsidera-
tions, and a least-cost but effective option would be considered  y G3OO for
implementation.  In the interim, operating staff of Junior Eegineer rank
would be encouraged to use existing loan assistance facilit4es froma GOO to
acquire suitable means of transport, such as motorbikes. to enable more
efficient communications within MIPs.
Land Consolidation and On-Farm Development
3.08    Land Consolidation and Design of OFD.  The project would finance land
consolidation together with the design of OFD works (watercourses and
drains) over some 160,000 ha in the command area of the foltowing major
irrigation projects:  (a) Mahanadi Delta Stages I and i,I (<) SslanAie and
(c) Hirakud. Only areas where both consolidati-on and design of OFD lhad been
completed will be eligible for finance under the project. Thie deasgn of land
consolidation would be based on the engineering requirements for efficient
water delivery and use, and would be organized (along with OFD wor.s) to
follow a distributary-wise pattern of implementationc
3.09    On-Farm Development.  The prolect would finance OFD works on some
48,000 of consolidated land in the major irrigation projects mentioned above
(para 3.08). OFD works will include primarily watercourses and field chan-
nels down to 5 ha sub-chaks, drainage channels, small control structure,
turnouts and selective lining of watercourses and field channles to ensure
efficient delivery of water to the interior areas of each chak served.
Design and construction of OFD watercourses would follow the same standards
and procedures as with MIP watercourses (SDV, Annex 3'>
3.10    The project would also finance construction, 'M!ere necessary, of rnew
canal outlets for watercourses to ensure that watercourses recelve a
specified design flow, borrow pit crossings to ensure that the full supply, of
water provided at the outlet reaches the designated watercourses, anid essen-
tial modernization works (to be undertaken by ID) in the parenrt channels to
ensure adequate canal control. 1/ Especially in the Mahanadi Delta area,
1/  Particularly in the Mahanadi Delta area, large borrow pits generally  n
parallel to the canal on each side at the toe of the canal banks; at
present, water from the outlets flows through the borrow pits unoon-
trolled (unchannelled) to the watercourse offtaking from the other side
of the pit. High water losses and unreliable chak water supplies result.



-15-
demand for such works is growing, particularly in areas where land consolida-
tion is complete, and farmers have shown a strong interest in crop diver-
sification in favor of low water-using crops in the dry season, rather than
having flooded paddy in both wet and dry seasons.
Research, Development and Trainlng
3.11    The overall objective of this component would be to develop and test
options for improving MIP and canal system performance capabilities, opera-
tional effectiveness, and water delivery and use efficiency. The R&D com-
ponent of the project would finance pilot activities, experiments and studies
in support of this aim (Annex 1). It would also support new-recruit and
in-service training for ID staff, and the establishment of a modest R&D and
training facility Lor the Irrigation Department (ID), in coordination with
the Water and Land Management Institute (para 5.27). In addition, special-
ized training would be provided on watercourse design and construction, and
on improved MIP operation and management. Incremental technical and key
support staff for R&D and training as well as necessary office space and
equipment, including up-graded computing facilities and essential vehicles,
would be financed under the project. Modernization of the ID central design
office, primarily through purchase of improved computing and other equipment
and essential vehicles, would also be financed under the R&D component and
would aim in part to help ensure speedy incorporation of R&D findings into
planning and design work for NIPs. Similarly, strengthening of the ID
quality control Unit (para 5.29), primarily through purchase of small equip-
ment and essential vehicles would be financed under the R&D component.
Although included in this project particularly with regard to MIPs, the R&D
component is intended to help develop an effective and practical applied R&D
program whichi would help serve the long-run needs of the State's irrigation
sector in general.
3.12    Technical Services.  A number of the R&D activities proposed under
the project are of an experimenital nature for which specialist expertise
available in India and elsewhere is extremely limited. Specialist technical
services of individual short-term consultants estimated to total about 48
man-months during the project period would be provided through GOI following
existing procedures under an ongoing UNDP water management grant (titled
"Advisory Services for Modernization of Land and Water Schemes") which is
administered by the Bank.
Design and Implementation
Medium Irrigation Projects
3.13    For all new MLIPs, and as much as possible for ongoing MIPs, construc-
tion would be organized to ensure completion of canals and watercourses
simultaneously with the dam and spillway for each MIP. To facilitate land
acquisitlion as required for rapid completion of the distribution network, a
complete and detailed survey of the CCA would be completed at an early stage
for each new MI? and for ongoing MIPs for which the detailed CCA survey is
not yet complete (para 5.14).  Upon completion of each MIP's survey, GOO
would provide a Certificate of Survey Completion certifying that the detailed
CCA survey was complete and adequate for design and alignment of watercourses
and minor canals as needed for both construction and land acquisition. Con-
struction of the CCA distribution network for each MIP would be completed by



-16-
chak or group of contiguous chaks (blocks). GOO would also provide Certifi-
cates of Chak Completion for the relevant block or blocks of the CCA dis-
tribution network for each MIP certifying completion to full operational
status according to design standards, including land reclamation and con-
struction of watercourses and field channels from the 5 ha turnout as neces-
sary to serve individual farm holdings (para 4.12). The CCA (mainly canals,
watercourses and drains) would be completed on a block-by-block basis, with
regular irrigation supply initiated in each block only after it is completed.
3.14    It is essential that GOO concentrate its resources for implementation
to ensure that the construction period of MIPs is reduced to an average of
about five years. Accordingly, new MIPs would not be approved for financing
under Orissa II until 10 of the ongoing Orissa I MIPs have been completed to
full operational status at design capacity (para 4.12). 1/
Consolidation and OFD
3.15    The objective would be to begin OFD works as soon as possible after
consolidation. Irrigation under improved distributary operational plans and
RWS among farmers would begin immediately after completion of land consolida-
tion and OFD, before farmers adopt undesirable water utilization patterns.
The main problem is that at present GOO's consolidation capability (in area
terms) is about three times greater than the present capability to implement
OFD. One way to improve the balance between consolidation and OFD would be
by slowing down the pace of consolidation, but this would reduce momentum and
would be undesirable. The preferred alternative would be to increase GOO
capability to implement OFD; this can be done gradually during implementation
as increased experience with OFD is acquired.
Implementation Schedule
3.16    The project would be implemented over a four-year period from
April 1, 1983 to March 31, 1987 (Chart 24663). A detailed IDA mid-term
review of the project would take place at the end of year two (March 31,
1985) to review performance in completing ongoing MIPs and timetables for
completing new MIPs under the project. At that time, at least 10 of the MIPs
presently under construction from Orissa I are expected to be completed
(including Dumerbahal). Progress in completing these 10 ongoing MIPs in
particular would be closely monitored by IDA and CWC review missions. No new
MIPs would be considered by IDA for approval before March 31, 1985.
Improved Operation and Water Management
3.17    A major objective of the project is to improve operation and manage-
ment which would be an important consideration in designing the implementa-
tion timetable for each MIP. To help promote improved performance and
management of MIPs, assurances were provided by GOO that it would prepare and
update periodically, using the latest time and cost estimates, time/activity
schedules for each MIP showing inter alia key dates for the following
activities:
1/ The 10 MIPs are Dumerbahal, Daha, Ramiala, Kaunria, Gohira, Remal, Pil-
lasalki, Sarapgarh, Jharbandh and Talsara.



-17-
(a) detailed survey and land acquisition for construction of
canals and watercourses;
(b) dam and head regulator(s);
(c) spillway and gates;
(d) main and branch canals;
(e) distributaries and minors, completed by block of the MIP CCA;
(f) watercourses down to 5 ha sub-chaks, completed by CCA block;
(g) provision for some form of communication such as transport;
(h) development of a detailed Management Plan;
(i) early selection of the Assistant Engineer in charge of the MIP;
(j) establishment of a Water Management Committee;
(k) initiation of regular water deliveries in each CCA block; and
(1) establishment of rotational water supply among farmers in MIP chaks,
to be completed prior to regular water deliveries to each chak.
3.18    Detailed MIP time/activity schedules would take into account the need
to maintain a balance in the progress of the various MIP works (i.e., between
the dam and spillway and the canals and watercourses). Time/activity
schedules would be completed by March 31, 1984 for ongoing MIPs, and prior to
CWC appraisal in draft form for new MIPs. GOO has assured that construction
of watercourses and other minor structures below the main canal in each MIP
would be constructed and completed no later than six months after completion
of the main canal and no later than 12 months after the completion of the
dam/spillway complex in that MIP.
3.19    For land consolidation and OFD works, assurances were provided that
time/activity schedules would be similarly prepared promptly and updated
periodically by GOO showing inter alia dates for the following:
(a) survey and design for land consolidation and OFD, based on
distributary-wise implementation and the engineering require-
ments of OFD works for efficient water delivery and use;
(b) assessment of modernization needs for parent distributaries and
channels to adequately serve OFD areas;
(c) completion of land consolidation, OFD and parent channel
modernization;
(d) establishment of rotational water supply among farmers; and
(e) provision of suitable operational schedules for distributaries
and parent channels serving OFD areas.



-18-
3.20    Implementation would follow the criteria established under Orissa I
as modified for Orissa II. Agreement has been reached that planning, design,
construction, operation and maintenance of MIPs and OFD works under the
project would be carried out in accordance with established technical and
economic criteria.
3.21    The project would emphasize adoption of operational procedures
designed to ensure efficient and reliable water supply in all MIPs and OFD
areas financed under both Orissa I and II. Of particular importance are
arrangements for water allocation among farmers. Experience has shown that
if the appropriate water management and allocation system is not introduced
from the initial stages, farmers, especially those located at the head of
each channel, adopt undesirable water use patterns which are difficult to
correct. Early establishment of efficient rotational water allocation
requires that the distribution system be fully complete for operational units
when irrigation deliveries commence. MIP operating procedures and organiza-
tion patterns are described in para 5.10 and in SDV, Annex 4 and Annex 5.
Agreements have been reached with GOO that it would:
(a) for MIPs, begin regular irrigation deliveries to any chak only
after appropriate rotational water allocation procedures have
been established among the farmers of that chak, and in chaks
where water deliveries have already begun, establish such pro-
cedures by October 31, 1984;l/ and
(b) for OFD chaks, establish appropriate rotational water allocation
procedures within sixty days after completion of OFD works, and
in OFD chaks completed under Orissa I establish such procedures by
March 31, 1984.
To assist in establishment of rotational water allocation among farmers, GOO
has provided assurances that it would consider transferring responsibility
for water allocation matters from the tehaildar (Revenue Department officer)
to the appropriate ID officers.
Resettlement
3.22    Orissa has suitable policies and programs for resettlement of persons
displaced as a result of project MIPs. Resettlement policies and programs
were implemented adequately during Orissa I, and would be continued under
Orissa II. In general, the number of people displaced by MIP reservoirs is
small because of the remote location of MIPs and because much of the flooded
area is already government-owned. Displaced landowners are paid for their
land which was acquired. Displaced families (land owners and landless)
receive irrigated or unirrigated land and household plots according to
statutory GOO guidelines.
1/ The term "regular" water refers to water supplied in a chak on which
water charges are levied; Orissa's laws provide that such water be sup-
plied to the chak one year after the first delivery of water to the chak.



-19-
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS
Project Cost Estimates
4.01    Estimated project costs, net of duties and taxes, would total
Rs 1,328 M (US$140.6 M). This assumes one MIP essentially complete from
Orissa I, completion of 14 MIPs ongoing from Orissa I, continuation of con-
struction of three additional Orissa I MIPs which are now at an early stage
of their construction, and initiation of construction on about six new MIPs
under Orissa II. Detailed cost estimates are given in Tables 5a-g and sum-
marized below:
Project Cost Summary
(Rs M)               (US$ M)
% of Total
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Base Costs
Medium Irrigation Projects
Ongoing MIPs            649.7   86.8    736.5   68.4    9.1   77.6       75
New MIPs                 87.3   12.8    100.0    9.2    1.3   10.5       10
Sub-total MIPs       737.0   99.6    836.5   77.6   10.4   88.1       85
Command Area Development
Land Consolidation       72.0     -      72.0    7.6      -     7.6       7
On-Farm Development      57.8   10.2     67.9    6.1    1.1    7.2        7
Sub-Total            1.        02      39 713T.7    1.1  14.8         14?
Research, Development
and Training              6.4    1.1      7.4    0.7    0.1    0.8        1
Total Base Costs       873.1  110.8    983.9   91.9   11.7  103.6    100
Physical
Contingencies       143.5   21.1    164.5   15.1    2.2   17.3       17
Price Contingencies  166.0   21.2    187.2   17.4    2.2   19.7        19
Total Project Costs  1,182.6  153.0   1,335.6 124.5   16.1  140.6   136
====T== =l==   =-===== =-==  =====  =====    ===
Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding.



-20-
4.02    Cost estimates are based on September, 1982 prices.  Physical contin-
gencies for MIPs were included at 20% for MIPs, reflecting the highly vari-
able construction conditions (e.g. hilly and broken terrain) and costs which
have been encountered in construction of MIPs. In addition, MIPs are
generally located in remote areas, and it is difficult to obtain accurate
preliminary survey data in such areas for cost estimates. Price contingen-
cies account for about 14% of total project cost and are based on inflation
rates of 8.0% for 1983/84, 7.5% for 1984/85, 7.0% for 1985/86 and 6.0% for
1986/87.
Financing
4.03    The proposed IDA credit of US$105.0 M would finance about 75% of
total project costs, including 100% of foreign exchange costs of US$16.1 M
and about 71% of local costs. The IDA credit would be made to GOI on stand-
ard interest terms over 20 years, including a five year grace period with a
front end fee of 0.25%. To avoid interruption of work ongoing from Orissa I,
the loan would include provision for US$6.0 M of retroactive financing of
qualified project expenditures incurred on or after April 1, 1983.
4.04    The loan would be channelled through GOI to finance GOO development
budget expenditures on the project (Table 6). IDA would reimburse against
eligible State budget expenditures for all components. GOI and GOO would
ensure a smooth and adequate flow of financing for project implementation.
4.05    An agreement has been reached with GOI that it would make the
proceeds of the IDA credit available to GOO for the project in accordance
with established procedures for GOI development assistance to the States.
An agreement has also been reached with GOI and GOO that they would ensure
adequate State budget resources and financing to implement the project over
the four-year project implementation period.
Procurement
4.06    Civil Works.  Construction of MIPs in the project would cost about
Rs 880.8 M (US$ 92.7 M), including physical and price contingencies but
excluding land and engineering and administration costs, and would account
for about 85% of the total project. The MIP construction program comprises
mainly completion of ongoing works begun under Orissa I. Construction of MIP
subprojects and works would be in comparatively small contacts, scattered,
and located in remote areas. MIP contracts would average about Rs 5.0 M
(US$0.5 M) and individually not exceed Rs 10.0 M(US$1.0 M). OFD works total
about Rs 86.7 M (US$9.1 M), or about 7% of the total project. Individual OFD
works are very small, averaging about Rs 28,000 (US$2,900), each at scattered
locations in the commands of four major irrigation projects. Although pack-
aging of works would be utilized whenever practicable, none of the construc-
tion activities could be grouped into packages of a magnitude that would
interest foreign bidders; therefore, no procurement of works under interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB) procedures is anticipated. However, works
would be appropriately grouped to attract maximum competition, but because of



-21-
the above mentioned constraints the bid packages would be of less than
US$5.0 M each. These works would be procured under local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures satisfactory to IDA, in which foreign bidders would have the
opportunity to participate. IDA reviewed and approved work-order type bid-
ding procedures could be used on small contracts costing less than US$ 25,000
each, up to an aggregate of 10% of total civil works. Some works would be
undertaken departmentally, up to an aggregate of 20% of total civil works.
4.07    Equipment and Vehicles.  Equipment and vehicles totalling about
Rs 16.8 M (US$1.8 M), including contingencies, would be grouped in
appropriate bidding packages and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank/IDA
Guidelines. Qualified domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in
bid evaluation of 15% and bid documents would specify their eligibility and
the manner of application of the preference. Because of existing servicing
and spare parts facilities, considerable advantages would be derived from
procuring locally manufactured light equipment and vehicles. Light equipment
and vehicles estimated to total about Rs 7.6 M (US$0.8 M) are readily avail-
able domestically. These goods would be procured under LCB procedures satis-
factory to IDA, of contract size less than US$100,000 each.
4.08    Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works estimated to cost
Rs 5.0 M (US$0.5 M) or more, and all ICB packages for goods, would be subject
to IDA's prior review of procurement procedures resulting in a coverage of
about 70% of the total estimated value of works and 80% of goods procurement.
The balance of contracts would be subject to random post review by IDA.
4.09    Standard Bid Documents and GOO Special Tender Committee.  The Central
Water Commission of GOI has recently developed model ICB and LCB bidding
documents and procedures for both works and goods procurement. The model
documents have been approved by IDA, and GOO would use them for procurement
under the project. To speed procurement for MIPs under Orissa I, GOO has
established for Bank/IDA projects a Special Tender Committee which meets once
a month and which would be continued to assist procurement under Orissa II.
Disbursements
4.10    Disbursement of the IDA credit would be made for:
(a) 60% of civil works expenditures on MIP dams, spillways and
head regulators;
(b) 95% of civil works expenditures on MIP main and branch canals;
(c) 95% of civil works expenditures on MIP distributaries, minors
and watercourses;



-22-
(d) 100% of the foreign expenditures on directly imported equipment and
vehicles, and 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
equipment and vehicles or 70% of cost for locally procured equip-
ment and vehicles when the ex-factory price is unavailable;
(e) 100% of expenditures on R&D and training, including R&D
facilities, equipment, pilot projects, studies and experiments;
(f) land consolidation at the rate of Rs 350 per hectare completed;
(g) OFD works at the rate of Rs 460 per hectare completed; and
(h) 95% of expenditures on civil works to improve the existing canal
network serving OFD areas.
4.11    Disbursements against categories (a) through (e) would be fully
documented, except for work undertaken departmentally and for individual
payments of less than Rs 300,000 under civil works contracts and Rs 150,000
for equipment, instruments, vehicles, goods and materials which would be made
against statements of expenditure itemized by project component (and
individual sub-project for MIPs). Disbursements for CAD activities,
categories (f) and (g), would be made against Certificates of Completion from
the Inspector General of Land Registration for category (f), and from the
Joint Director, Agriculture (CAD) for category (g). Statements of expendi-
tures would be audited annually, and the audited statements would be sub-
mitted to IDA once a year along with the audited accounts (para 4.14).
4.12    Construction of the CCA distribution network for each MIP would be
completed by chak or groups of contiguous chaks (blocks). GOO would provide
Certificates of Chak Completion for the relevant chak or group of chaks of
the CCA distribution network for each MIP certifying completion to full
operational status according to design standards, including land clearing
and construction of watercourses and of field channels from the 5 ha turnout
as necessary to serve individual farm holdings. Each Certificate of Chak
Completion would indicate the percentage of total CCA completion as certified
by the aggregate of all Certificates of Chak Completion for the MIP in ques-
tion up to that date. All applications for IDA reimbursement under
categories (a), (b) and (c) would be submitted by individual MIP and would
be accompanied by copies of the latest Certificates of Chak Completion for
any given MIP. Reimbursement under category (c) would be made only on the
basis of completed chaks or groups of chaks. In addition, no disbursements
on new MIPs would be made before March 31, 1985 and until MIPs financed under
Orissa I are substantially completed (completion to full operational status
at designed capacity of at least 10 MIPs).
4.13    Documentation of expenditures would be retained by GOO and made
available for inspection by IDA review missions. The estimated implementa-
tion schedule, estimated semiannual disbursement schedule, and proposed



-23-
allocation of the loan proceeds are presented in Tables 7, 8 and 9, respec-
tively. The estimated disbursement schedule is based on continued implemen-
tation (without start-up period) at rates achieved in recent years under
Orissa I. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by Decem-
ber 31, 1987, about nine months after project completion. Agreement has been
reached with GOI and GOO that the project would be implemented substantially
in accordance with the estimated implementation schedule.
Accounts and Audits
4.14    The project would be subject to normal Government control and audit-
ing procedures which are satisfactory. A resident Audit Officer, repre-
senting the State Accountant General, would audit the project accounts.
Separate accounts would be maintained for project expenditures. Although
continuous and annual audits are carried out in a timely manner, their
finalization is a lengthy process in the Statutory Audit Report presented to
the Legislature. It would be essential therefore to have interim certified
statements of account including audited statements of expenditures. Such
statements, certified by the Accountant General or his designee and supported
by an itemized account and summary of expenditures, would be submitted to IDA
as soon as possible after the end of each fiscal year. Agreements have been
reached with GOO that they would:
(a) maintain separate accounts for project expenditures;
(b) ensure that such project accounts are audited annually and that
copies of such accounts, certified as to their accuracy by
an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, are submitted
to IDA not later than nine months after the end of each
fiscal year;
(c) have final audits prepared for project accounts for each fiscal
year by an auditor acceptable to IDA and forward such audit
reports to IDA immediately after their finalization; and
(d) make complete accounts and financial statements available
for inspection during IDA review missions.



-24-
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
5.01    Implementation arrangements for the project would generally follow the
same pattern as in the ongoing Orissa I Project. Implementation would be the
responsibility of the following specific GOO agencies (Chart 24659): Irrigation
Department (ID) in the Irrigation and Power Department (I&PD) for MIP construc-
tion and operation, training and R&D; Directorate of Land Consolidation in the
Revenue Department for land consolidation; and the Directorate of Agriculture
and Food Production (DAFP) in the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation for
construction of OFD works. Intensified agricultural extension through the
Extension Service under DAFP would not be financed under the project but would
be provided as needed through the ongoing Orissa Agricultural Development
Project (Cr. 682-IN) and its follow-up project.
Project Coordination
5.02    To improve policy-level coordination and overall monitoring of the
various agencies involved in the project, a high-level State Coordinating and
Monitoring Committee (SCMC) chaired by the GOO Development Commissioner would be
established by GOO. No such coordinating body was established under Orissa I.
Better coordination is needed especially to deal with persistent coordination
matters involving other agencies, such as land acquisition, and because of the
strong emphasis under Orissa II on intensified agricultural extension and
development in MIP and OFD areas. SCMC would meet at least quarterly and
provide policy-level guidance and coordination, oversee monitoring of progress
in physical and financial terms, and ensure adequate liason and prompt com-
munication between the various agencies involved, GOO, GOI and IDA. SCMC would
also help facilitate provision of staff, equipment and other requirements neces-
sary for satisfactory performance of the project. ID would be the lead agency,
and would be responsible for day-to-day coordination and monitoring work under
the supervision of the ID Engineer-in-Chief who would function as the manager of
the overall project. As an aid to management of the project, a strengthened
management information and monitoring system would be developed. It would be
designed to serve as a management tool for the Engineer-in-Chief, as well as a
source of general progress monitoring data for SCMC. For MIPs, it would include
monitoring of operations as well as construction progress. Agreements were
reached with GOO that it would establish by August 31, 1983 and thereafter
maintain a State Coordinating and Monitoring Committee chaired by the Develop-
ment Commissioner. Agreements were also reached with GOO that it would estab-
lish by March 31, 1984 and thereafter apply a management information and
monitoring system for construction under the project and operation of MIPs.
Medium Irrigation Projects
5.03    Irrigation Department.  Primary responsibility for implementation of
MIPs rests with ID. MIPs under the project would be planned, designed and
constructed by ID, which also has responsibility for their operation and main-
tenance (O&M) after completion. Responsibility for irrigation and drainage
operation is with the Engineer-in-Chief, who reports to the Secretary for



-25-
Irrigation and Power through the Deputy Secretary and Advisor (Chart 24788).
The Engineer-in-Chief is assisted by ten Chief Engineers responsible for MIPs,
Minor Irrigation, Flood Control and the Mahanadi Delta, Major Irrigation
Projects (one Chief Engineer per project), and the headquarters Designs Office.
Planning, Quality Control and Research (primarily for construction), and Dam
Safety matters are also handled at headquarters under the direct responsibility
of the Engineer-in-Chief assisted by Superintending Engineers. The performance
of ID in construction of MIPs under Orissa I has been satisfactory.
5.04    To implement, operate and maintain MIPs, ID is organized on a geographi-
cal basis with ten circles, each headed by a Superintending Engineer (Chart
24847, and Map 16878-inset). Each circle has four to five divisions, each
headed by an Executive Engineer. A division consists of five to eight
sub-divisions, each headed by an Assistant Engineer; below the sub-divisions are
sections, each headed by a Junior Engineer. Generally, two to four
sub-divisions have responsibility for investigations, minor works and O&M of
existing projects within specific geographical areas. Special construction
sub-divisions are set up for execution of larger works. For a typical 5,000 to
10,000 ha project, three or four sub-divisions are created; one or two for dam
construction, one for construction of the distribution and drainage networks
and one for operation and maintenance of the construction equipment. Respon-
sibility for day-to-day operation of each MIP during construction rests with one
of the sub-divisional Assistant Engineers (Chart 24848). After completion of
the MIP one of the Assistant Engineers who worked on construction of the MIP is
usually assigned to operate it for the next two or three years before his next
rotation to a new assignment. Under the project MIP management would be
strengthened by early designation of the particular Assistant Engineer who will
be in charge of the MIP after its completion, and who will have responsibility
to operate the MIP in accordance with the MIP Management Plan (para 5.12).
5.05    CWC and the Appraisal Committee.  The Central Water Commission (CWC) is
the highest technical authority for water resources development in India. It is
responsible to the Ministry of Irrigation of GOI for providing technical advice
on practically all fields concerning water resources, and for initiating, coor-
dinating and monitoring irrigation development schemes throughout the country.
CWC responsibilities include in particular technical review of all major and
medium irrigation projects before they are submitted for approval to the Plan-
ning Commission of GOI. CWC is a large and complex organization with a staff of
more than 1,000 engineers, many of whom are on rotation from the States. The
Commission itself consists of a Chairman and four members.
5.06    The Appraisal Committee (AC) of CWC was established in 1977 in connec-
tion with Orissa I to undertake appraisal and progress monitoring (in addition
to normal IDA supervision) of MIPs financed under the credit. It was given
added responsibility for appraisal and monitoring of MIPs financed under the
Gujarat Irrigation Project (Credit 808-IN) in 1978, and under the Madhya Pradesh
Medium Irrigation Project (Credit 1108-IN) in 1981. As of September 30, 1982,
AC had appraised 51 MIPs (18 under Orissa I, 23 under Credit 808-IN, and 11
under Credit 1108-IN). The operational arm of the Appraisal Committee is the
Planning and Progress Wing (the P&P Wing) of CWC, headed by the Member, P&P.
For the appraisal of any particular MIP, AC constitutes a team of high level
officers representing the Planning Commission, the Ministry of Irrigation (GOI),
CWC, and the Irrigation and Agriculture Departments of the State concerned.



-26-
5.07    The quality of CWC appraisal and supervision work has overall been
adequate and has consistently improved during Orissa I. Present arrangements
would be continued under the proposed project. However, the work required of
AC is expanding, as is the importance of its role, and strengthening of AC staff
support and capabilities for data handling and analysis is needed to help
increase the efficiency and effectiveness of MIP appraisal and progress monitor-
ing by AC for Orissa II and other medium projects. Procedures and analytical
software designed to improve efficiency and more closely follow standard
Bank/IDA practice for both appraisal and supervision work would be introduced
with IDA assistance under Orissa II. Agreement has been reached with GOI and
GOO that ongoing MIPs would be monitored and new MIPs would be appraised and
monitored in accordance with agreed procedures (paras 5.08 and 5.09, and SDV
Annexes 7 and 8).
5.08    Procedures for Medium Irrigation Projects.  Interaction between AC and
GOO would be continuous during the preparation, appraisal and construction of
each MIP. The main activities in the project cycle, for both ne-w and ongoing
MIPs as appropriate, would include identification, preparation, submission to
CWC, appraisal, approval by IDA, and implementation; they would follow similar
procedures as in Orissa I with several modifications. Project preparation
reports for each new MIP would include a detailed draft of the MIP Management
Plan (para 5.11) which would be evaluated in the course of CWC appraisal.
Detailed designs for major structures (e.g., dams) would be completed prior to
CWC appraisal. The CWC appraisal would include specific recommendations on
actions needed by GOO for efficient implementation and operation, particularly
concerning agricultural supporting services and marketing facilities in the MIP
area; the economic analysis for the appraisal would not be based on norms (as
under Orissa I) but would follow standard Bank/IDA practice. IDA prior approval
would be required for all new MIPs to be financed under the project. Stronger
and more systematic efforts would be made to involve farmers, at the design and
construction stages and with operations. Implementation would be organized to
ensure completion of canals and watercourses simultaneously with the dam and
headworks. Procedures and activities under the project cycle are detailed in
SDV, Annex 7.
5.09    MIP Progress Monitoring and Reporting.  Under Orissa II, AC would con-
tinue to closely monitor progress of project preparation, implementation and
operation. Reports which would be prepared by AC for each MIP and submitted to
IDA for review would include an "Annual Implementation Program", and "Progress
Summaries" for Preparation, Implementation and Operation similar to Orissa I
(SDV, Annex 8). In monitoring of implementation and operation of each MIP, AC
would pay particular attention to development of a suitable Management Plan,
early selection and assignment of the Assistant Engineer in charge of the MIP,
establishment of the Water Management Committee, and establishment of rotational
water allocation procedures among farmers; AC would also closely monitor
application by ID of the MIP operations plan when the MIP begins operating. AC
monitoring procedures would in addition check that relevant MIP Certificates of
Chak Completion are prepared, and that construction of watercourses and other
minor chak structures below the main canal in each MIP are completed no later
than six months after completion of the main canal and no later than 12 months
after completion of the dam, spillway and headworks.
5.10    MIP Operation and Management.  Operational procedures for each MIP would
be based on the following principles:



-27-
(a) Farmers to be informed before the beginning of the rabi
season of the amount and timing of water deliveries during
the season;
(b) Rotational (on-off) operation of the canal network during
periods of scarcity and particularly in the rabi season; 1/
(c) Organized rotational water supply (RWS, or warabandi) to
allocate water among farmers on each watercourse;
(d) Closure of the system when specified amounts of rainfall
occur after a certain date in the year (say September 1)
or when the reservoir is not full (following the land
preparation period for kharif season rice);
(e) Monitoring and reporting of water flows at key points in
the distribution network at least twice a day; and
(f) Regular consultation with farmers for decision making in
MIP management.
5.11    To ensure a high level of management in accordance with the principles
mentioned above, the ID would develop for new MIPs and for each on-going MIP
prior to completion a detailed "Management Plan". The Management Plan for each
MIP would specify in detail inter alia: (a) organizational arrangements; (b)
operational procedures including feedback from farmers; and (c) agricultural
strategies to promote diversified crops and increased yields. Development of
the Management Plan would involve the MIP farmers to be served and take into
account their requests and suggestions, and it would include establishment of a
Water Management Committee (WMC) at each MIP. A modest water management center
building would be constructed at a central location and maintained by ID at each
MIP for WMC and farmer meetings. The Plan would make a full use of reservoir
operation studies carried out for each MIP and would be tested and refined on
limited areas before completion of each MIP, as soon as water becomes available
for irrigation. To facilitate the preparation of a detailed Management Plan for
each MIP , a general model MIP Management Plan would be developed initially.
Agreements have been reached that GOO would: (a) prepare and furnish to IDA by
March 31, 1984 for its review and comment a model MIP Management Plan; and (b)
for each project MIP apply a detailed Management Plan not later than six months
before commencing of irrigation in the MIP or not later than September 30, 1984
for MIPs which have already started operation.
1/ The above principles of canal rotation and RWS are based on the operational
concept of constant flow (rate) and variable time (duration); alternatively,
operation could be based on variable flow and constant time or a combination
of the two. While offering the possibility of increased efficiency, this
would likely require considerably more sophistication in management and
equipment, and strong discipline among both operating staff and farmers,
which is likely to require considerable time to develop. It is expected
that further improvements in management would be gradually introduced in
the future as experience is gained.



-28-
5.12    Under the Management Plan, an Assistant Engineer in charge and the core
operating staff for each MIP would be selected prior to its completion, and
training would be provided on improved MIP operation and management procedures,
staffing, timetables and work plans. The Management Plan would ensure that ID
salaries and allowances are equivalent for MIP Assistant Engineers/operating
staff and for construction staff, so that staff transferred to operations after
MIP completion do not suffer a reduction in pay. The Assistant Engineer and his
staff would be assisted by the Water Management Committee (WMC) which would be
established for each MIP. The MIP Assistant Engineer would be the ex officio
chairman of WMC, which would be comprised of farmers representing head, middle
and tail areas of the CCA, relevant GOO officers (e.g., extension workers, local
tehsildar, etc.), and the chairman of the local elected body (Panchayat Samiti).
WMC would encompass and supersede with broader responsibilities the water
allocation committees specified for each MIP under Orissa I. Guidelines for
Management Plans and establishment of WMC are given in SDV, Annex 5. Agreement
has beeen reached that GOO would: (a) maintain a suitably qualified Assistant
Engineer at each project MIP with responsibilities and functions as needed for
efficient management of the MIP; and (b) establish and thereafter maintain at
each project MIP a WMC, with membership to include inter alia the MIP Assistant
Engineer, representatives of Orissa's concerned departments, and farmers repre-
sentatives including the Chairman of the local elected body (Panchayat Samiti).
Assurances were provided by GOO that selection of farmers for WMC would take
into account that such farmers are direct beneficiaries of the MIP, selected
from representative areas of the CCA and appointed for fixed terms, and that
periodic meetings would be held at the MIP to invite views from the farmers.
5.13    Organization of farmers at each MIP into a water user association could
greatly assist in facilitating cooperation between farmers and representing the
interests of water users. At present, however, GOO/ID have no experience in
establishing or working with such organizations. Such farmer associations could
provide the organizational linkage between WMC and the farmers served. The
primary tasks of a water user association would particularly concern water
allocation, maintenance and maintenance monitoring, and conflict resolution; it
could also assist in mobilizing local resources and support to assist the
project. Local watercourse committees of the association would help monitor
and enforce allocation of water in accordance with rotational water supply
(warabandi) principles to be established among farmers. The R&D Cell under the
project could help in developing the most effective approach to establishing
farmer water user associations through, for example, studies and preparation of
model enabling legislation and Articles of Association especially designed to
promote water user associations. GOO has assured that in order to gain
experience with increased farmer participation at MIPs, it would design and
undertake a pilot study on the feasibility of farmer participation in the water
distribution system.
5.14    Land Acquisition.  Delays in land acquisition for canal and watercourse
construction have been a major cause of delay in completing MIP minor distribu-
tion systems. GOO has recently taken a number of steps to expedite the process
of land acquisition, including frequent progress reviews by higher level
officers, appointment of special land acquisition officers, delgation of
specific land acquisition powers, and instructions to give priority to land
acquisition for NIPs and dispense with the maximum mandatory period for advance
notice. To further facilitate land acquisition, agreement has been reached that
GOO/ID would carry out a detailed survey adequate for land acquisition and



-29-
aligning canals and watercourses not later than six months prior to carrying out
of construction works in MIPs.
Agricultural Intensification for Medium Projects
5.15    For MIPs under the project, strengthened agricultural extension, along
with increased agricultural supporting services and market facilities, would be
of primary importance. Increased agricultural extension is necessary to promote
adoption of modern agricultural and water management practices and irrigation of
diversified crops among traditional, rainfed farmers. Agricultural extension
is the responsibility of DAFP (Chart 24662). Schedules and requirements for
staffing and training and visits of DAFP Village Agricultural Workers (VAWs)
under the ongoing T&V extension project would be coordinated with MIP opera-
tional schedules and detailed in the Management Plan for each MIP (para 5.11).
To provide adequate extension coverage for newly irrigated MIP areas would
require an estimated doubling of the intensity of VAWs and corresponding super-
visory staff, with one VAW serving about 300-400 farmers instead of some 600-800
as at present; this would require a small (about 1.5X) increase in VAW staff
strength overall in the State. The increased extension staff intensities above
are in line with guidelines specified for the T&V system in irrigated areas for
special cases. Areas assigned to VAWs would be by watercourse or groups of
watercourses, and matched as closely as possible to coincide with areas of
responsibilities for relevant ID MIP operating staff and with the farmer
organizational units (e.g., chak farmer groups for RWS). VAWs and Agricultural
staff would assist in training MIP farmers and farmer leaders on organization
procedures and techniques to promote establishment and efficient operation of
RWS. Support for extension intensification as above for the project (with
increased field staff strength) could be provided under the ongoing Orissa
Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 682-IN) and its successor. Agreements
have been reached that GOO would take all action necessary to strengthen its
agricultural extension and supply support for carrying out the project, includ-
ing adequate supply of production inputs, agricultural credit, and market
facilities six months prior to completion of each MIP.
Command Area Development
5.16    Command Area Development Organization.  Command Area Development (CAD)
comprises such activities as construction of field channels and drains, O&M and
minor improvement works for irrigation systems, land consolidation, and develop-
ment of agricultural supporting services. These activities are the respon-
sibility of different agencies and departments. To help provide the coordina-
tion and monitoring needed for their success, GOO constituted in May 1976 three
Command Area Development Authorities (CADAs) covering the four largest irriga-
tion project command areas in the State -- Hirakud, Salandi and Mahanadi Delta
Stages 1 and 2; land consolidation and OFD under the project would be in these
four major project areas.
5.17    The CADA organization extends from the GOO cabinet level down to village
committees. Each CADA is chaired by Divisional Revenue Commissioners and
administered by a Project Director. CADA acts primarily as a coordinator and
has essentially no staff or resources of its own for implementation purposes.
However, it does have the power to direct, subject to broad guidelines estab-
lished by GOO, the manner in which programs relating to CAD activities are
executed. The CAD Commissioner functions as the inter-departmental coordinator



-30-
at the State level. Administrative responsibility for CAD programs falls under
DAFP.
5.18    Directorate of Land Consolidation.  The Directorate of Land Consolida-
tion, which has responsibility for land consolidation, is under the Revenue
Department and headed by a Director. The basic operating units are consolida-
tion camps (normally covering 2,000-2,500 ha of consolidable area) cons'sting of
an Assistant Consolidation Officer, one surveyor and two consolidators.  Each
camp is responsible for cadastral surveys, field inquiries for determination of
land values, preparation of land records and maps, delineation of consolidated
plots, and allotment of plots to landowners. About five to eight camps con-
stitute a consolidation circle which is headed by a Consolidation Officer who
supervises the work of the camps and has power to resolve disputes concerning
allotment of land and determination of land values. About three circles con-
stituite a range, headed by a Deputy Director, Consolidation, who has jurisdic-
tion over appeals made by landowners. The Director of Consolidation has overall
administrative control and supervision responsibility. The Consolidation Com-
missioner, who is responsible for the formulation of the program, has final
jurisdiction over the appeals made by farmers against decisions of lower con-
solidation authorities.  Budgetary provisions to finance land consolidation work
come from the Revenue Department.
5.19    A special feature of the consolidation process is the involvement of
the village community at all stages. A Village Consolidation Committee, includ-
ing at least one landless agricultural laborer, one representative of each
category of land owners and one person from Scheduled Castes and Tribes, is
constituted for each village camp. The Committee advises consolidation officers
on matters such as determination of land values and allotment of consolidated
holdings in the CCA of the village.
5.20    The consolidation process is lengthy since ample provisions are made
for objections and appeals by farmers concerned at each stage in the process.
Completion of consolidation takes about 30 to 36 months. In order to prevent
future fragmentation of consolidated plots, the Land Consolidation Act prohibits
transfer of ownership for holdings less than one acre to anyone except to an
adjoining farmer.
5.21    Agricultural Engineering Organization.  The Agriculture Engineering
Organization (AEO) of DAFP, is headed by the Joint Director of Agriculture,
Engineering, and has responsibility for the implementation of OFD works (Chart
24661). To implement OFD works under Orissa I, AEO established four Divisions
for topographical surveys, alignment of field channels and drains, preparation
of cost estimates and supervision of on-farm works carried out by small contrac-
tors. Each Division is headed by an Executive Engineer, assisted by four Assis-
tant Agricultural Engineers and 16 Junior Agricultural Engineers. AEO has staff
with training in both agriculture and engineering and experience in planning,
design and supervision of OFD works. It has a substantial orngoing programL for
OFD development, of which Orissa II would finance a part.
5.22    Operation and Maintenance of OFD Works.  Operation and maintenance of
OFD works and water allocation within each chak is the responsibility of the
farmers. With paddy rice which has been the primary irrigated crop in the past,
OFD works are minimal and water allocation is not an issue because water flow to
each field is small and continuous. However, development of suitable water



-31-
allocation procedures is essential for diversified crops. This has been done
successfully in India through rotational water supply (RWS) among farmers or
groups of farmers on each chak, most notably the warabandi system in northwest
India. The Village Consolidation Committees established for land consolidation
provide a ready stepping stone for the development of cooperation within farmer
groups at the chak level, which is essential for water allocation under RWS.
Farmer chak committees and RWS water management procedures would be established
in OFD areas upon completion of OFD works.
Research, Development and Training
5.23    Research and Development.  To handle the additional workload under
project R&D and training programs, a special R&D Cell would be established under
the project (Chart 24788). The R&D Cell would assist the Engineer-in-Chief of
the Irrigation Department, and would be headed by an officer of at least Super-
intending Engineer rank assisted by sufficient senior staff to oversee work and
activities in several broad areas, including irrigation engineering, design and
technology, agro-economics, farmer organization, management information and
monitoring, and training. Senior R&D staff would be multidisciplinary and would
include irrigation engineers, agriculturalists, agricultural engineers, and
agricultural economists. The R&D Cell would plan, design, arrange and monitor
R&D pilot projects, experiments and studies under the project, and would plan
and arrange training programs for ID and related staff. In general the R&D Cell
would implement R&D studies and training activities through other organizations,
institutions and consultants on a contract basis, although it would undertake
such activities on its own or through ID staff if necessary. It would have
specific responsibility to oversee and coordinate the technical content of pilot
project work undertaken by MIP circle staff working on pilot projects, studies
and experiments. It would also assist in the design of an improved management
information and monitoring system for the project (para 5.02), and organize and
undertake evaluation work for the project.
5.24    In addition to the R&D Cell, a technical-level R&D Technical Advisory
Committee would be formed. The Chairman of the Technical Advisory Committee
would be the Engineer-in-Chief, Irrigation. The Committee would comprise senior
GOO officers from ID, DAFP, engineering and agricultural universities, and other
organizations and agencies as needed and related to the R&D and training work
program. The purpose of the Technical Advisory Committee would be at the tech-
nical level to help advise, guide, monitor and support R&D and training efforts.
The Technical Advisory Committee would report on a regular basis through the
Engineer-in-Chief to the Secretary, Irrigation. Agreements have been reached
with GOO that it would: (a) establish by March 31, 1984 an R&D Cell with
responsibilities, functions and staffing as required; (b) form the R&D and
Training Technical Advisory Committee with appropriate functions, respon-
sibilities and membership by June 30, 1984; and (c) prepare and furnish to IDA
by September 30, 1984 for its review and comment work plans and schedules for
R&D and training activities under the project.
5.25    In order to help implement demonstration, pilot project, farmer
organization, and R&D activities, each MIP Circle which has such activities
under its responsibility would be strengthened by ID as necessary. The local
Superintending Engineer would oversee implementation of R&D activities in his
circle, and ensure they are implemented in accordance with agreed plans and
specifications. Funding levels for each circle for R&D work would be determined



-32-
by the R&D Cell on the basis of work plans and schedules; arrangements for
funding R&D activities in each circle would follow patterns already established
for financing MIPs. The local Superintending Engineer would ensure adequate
coordination with relevant Divisions in the Circle. MIP Circle staff with
guidance by the R&D Cell and supervision by the local Superintending Engineer
would also undertake R&D-related field work for organizing, establishing and
supporting farmer associations under the pilot components, and would provide
follow-up guidance, support and monitoring as necessary for MIP farmer organiza-
tions developed under the project.
5.26    Manpower Development.  The project would finance the development of a
specialized training program for manpower development in ID for new recruits and
more senior irrigation staff. Irrigation engineers in Orissa (as in the other
States of India) are basically educated as civil engineers and generally
oriented toward construction. Their formal training provides little background
on hydraulics, agriculture, or irrigation, or on management of irrigation sys-
tems, and most learn their irrigation engineering on the job from their supe-
riors who were also not trained in irrigation engineering. In addition, because
their training is primarily in construction, even those engineers with a strong
interest in operations and management often find little to guide them.
5.27    The overall aim of the training program under the project is to provide
ID civil engineers with more background and information on hydraulic and irriga-
tion engineering and in irrigated agriculture and irrigation management and
operations. A major objective is to begin developing within ID a professional
cadre of irrigation engineers and managers who would specialize in irrigation
operation and management, starting especially among the new recruits who
generally have little exposure to modern irrigation, hydraulics, agriculture or
management science in their formal training. This would be done through a
specially designed training program of about four months for new recruits and a
series of short-course seminar and workshop programs for middle and senior level
engineers. These training programs would be organized by ID, and would be
coordinated and integrated with the development of the Orissa Water and Land
Management Institute (WALMI) to be established by September 30, 1983 under the
Subernarakha Irrigation Project (Cr. 1289-IN); WALMI would focus primarily on
training junior, field-level staff. Training programs would cater to the needs
of both ID and (as necessary) CAD engineering staff and would include special-
ized training for ID staff on the improved design and management practices to be
carried out with MIPs under Orissa II. Special training programs would also be
developed and provided to MIP farmers on RWS, MIP operations, organizational
procedures, etc.
5.28.   The program would provide ID in-service training for up to about 125
engineers annually and ID orientation training for about 20 engineers annually.
Cost estimates include funds for fellowships for train;ees and specialized study
tours for ID professional staff.
Quality Control and Dam Safety
5.29    Quality control, while generally adequate, has been weak in certain
areas such as compaction of canal banks. In addition, it has not generally been
related to the design standards for irrigation performance of the facilities
provided in terms of operational requirements. ID has a quality control unit
headed by a Superintending Engineer, reporting to the Engineer-in-Chief. Under



-33-
the project, ID would also undertake "operational" quality control of MIPs in
terms of irrigation performance criteria. For example, all watercourse outlets
are to be installed and calibrated for design discharge at canal full supply
level (FSL). Outlets and direct outlets would be checked to ensure that actual
discharge matches design specifications. Watercourse alignment and capacity,
canal regulation facilities, measuring devices, roads, etc. would be similarly
checked to ensure they meet the operational design specifications and require-
ments. Operational quality control checks would be undertaken for each com-
pleted block of an MIP prior to commencement of regular water deliveries to that
block. The scope of quality control of works undertaken by ID covers MIP dis-
tribution systems down to the sub-chak turnout. Project funding for
strengthened operational quality control, including vehicles, is included under
the R&D component. Agreement has been reached with GOO that it would take all
action necessary to ensure quality control in respect of design, construction
and maintenance of MIPs.
5.30    To ensure the safety of MIP dams under the project, GOO has constituted
an independent panel of technical experts to undertake periodic and comprehen-
sive reviews of plans, designs and construction of new MIP dams and associated
structures, as well as to review the design, operation, maintenance and safety
procedures and make periodic safety inspections for MIP dams after construction.
This is the same Dam Safety Panel as required under the Upper Indravati Power
Project (Cr. 1356-IN/Ln. 2278-IN), and its scope would cover Orissa I and II MIP
dams. For each new MIP, results of the Panel's reviews would be considered in
the CWC project appraisal. The Panel would submit to IDA and CWC annual reports
summarizing the results of their reviews and inspections. Agreements have been
reached with GOO that it would: (a) maintain its existing Dam Safety Panel of
experts to review the plans and design of project MIP dams and related struc-
tures; (b) cause the Panel to conduct periodic reviews of such dams and related
structures during design and construction; and (c) cause dams and related struc-
tures constructed under the project to be periodically inspected in accordance
with sound engineering practice to determine if any deficiencies exist in their
condition or in the quality and adequacy of their maintenance or methods of
operation which may endanger their safety.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
5.31    The R&D Cell would help design the monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system for the project. Strengthened monitoring would be done through the
existing ID monitoring system; evaluation would be the responsibility of the R&D
Cell. The M&E program would be designed in conjunction with the improved
management information and monitoring system for the project (para 5.02) and AC
review procedures. Quarterly progress reports would be prepared and include
in particular analysis of implementation progress relative to established tar-
gets, actual costs relative to estimated costs, growth of agricultural benefits,
and development of RWS and farmer participation at MIPs. In addition, the R&D
Cell would undertake on its own or through contracts with other organizations
studies as needed to adequately monitor progress and evaluate benefits.



-34-
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Impact
6.01    Irrigated Area and Yields.  In the MIP project areas, present crop
production levels are relatively low and reflect the limitations of rainfed
agriculture. Without irrigation, low paddy yields are likely to continue
indefinitely, and cultivation would be limited mainly to the kharif season
with annual cropping intensity levels of about 85% (Table 10). Cultivation
practices based primarily on subsistance agriculture would continue, with
little hope for significant improvement in the future.
6.02    Completion of ongoing MIPs would add about 108,000 ha of new
irrigated CCA, which would have an annual irrigated cropping intensity of
about 137X. New projects expected to be started under the project would
serve an additional 30,000 ha of new CCA. Yields and production in the areas
served would increase significantly, due to the supply of irrigation water
and the changes in farming techniques which would be made possible by assured
supply of water. Reliable and predictable water supplies would induce
investment in cash inputs and land improvement, enable productive cultivation
of diversified crops in the dry season, and significantly reduce farmers'
risks.
6.03    The main changes in cropped area and yields expected at full develop-
ment of the ongoing MIPs are summarized as follows (Table 10):
Without Project a/   With Project b/
Cropped Area ('000 ha)
Kharif ('000 ha)                           68.9                 102.6
Rabi and Perennials ('000 ha)              24.7                  69.1
Total                                 93.6                171.7
Yield (t/ha)
Paddy (HYV)                                 1.6                   3.2
Groundnut                                   1.5                   2.1
a/ All rainfed; excludes scrub vegetation areas.
b/ Area includes rainfed.
6.04    Benefits from CAD investments would be primarily from increased
cultivation and irrigation of diversified crops in the dry season and from
increased productivity due to consolidation. Irrigation intensity in CAD
areas at full development would total an estimated 170% in the coastal areas



-35-
and 159% in non-coastal areas compared to the present intensity of 153% and
140% respectively (Table 10).
6.05    Production and Value.  Farmers in MIP areas have essentially no
experience with irrigation and water management, and little exposure to
modern agricultural practices. However, most have experience in cultivation
of rainfed, flooded paddy in the kharif season, which would facilitate rapid
development of irrigated paddy in MIPs. Experience with ongoing project MIPs
indicates that farmers begin cultivating paddy as soon as water is made
available. Adoption of irrigated diversified crops, however, would be slow
especially since traditionally such crops have generally been cultivated only
under rainfed conditions, and only on a subsistance basis if at all. Farmers
in CAD areas have more experience with irrigation, although their experience
is primarily with paddy rather than diversified crops. At full development,
the project is expected to generate the following incremental production and
value based on 1982 financial prices (Tables 11 and 12): 1/
MIPs                    CAD
Crops                    000 tons    Rs M        '000 tons    Rs M
Paddy                      80.0      125.6          59.1      92.8
Wheat                      33.7       59.0           7.2       12.6
Maize                       1.9        2.2           0.2        0.2
Mustard                     4.9       20.6           0.3        1.3
Groundnut                  20.1       73.8           6.5      23.9
Pulses                      7.0       20.2           3.1        8.9
Total                            301.4                   139.7
Market Prospects
6.06    Foodgrain production in Orissa changes from year to year depending
on weather conditions, varying overall from a position of moderate surplus
to deficit. Irrigation investments under the project will help to stabilize
production and meet the demand during years of poor rainfall (usually every
second or third year). In addition, India as a whole is expected to remain
marginally self-sufficient in foodgrain production. Market prospects for
rice, the major foodgrain produced under the project, are therefore good.
Similarly, among diversified crops, oilseeds in particular have a ready
market. Groundnut is the most important oilseed crop in Orissa, and its
production has increased rapidly during the last decade or so. Marketing
channels for groundnut and other oilseeds are well established, and about 75%
of oilseed production is exported from the State. For pulses, another impor-
tant diversified food crop, about 60% of farm production is marketed. In
general the State's agriculture market system is adequate to handle increased
market arrivals as a result of the project. However, in some MIP areas,
established markets may not exist or may be poorly developed. GOO would take
steps as needed to ensure that adequate market facilities are available to
serve each MIP (para 5.15).
1/ Estimates are for total incremental crop production from MIPs, since it
would be arbitrary to separate the incremental production from MIPs
between Orissa I and Orissa II.



-36-
Water Charges and Operation and Maintenance
6.07    Water charges in Orissa have-historically been very low, in large
part due to the generally low paying capacity of Orissa farmers. Water
charges are levied on a per hectare basis and comprise a compulsory basic
rate plus an additional charge by crop. The compulsory basic water rate is
in effect a kharif paddy rate and is levied for every hectare under command.
It varies from Rs 10/ha to Rs 40/ha depending on the class of irrigation
service (class depends mainly on whether or not a project has reservoir
storage); for MIPs the compulsory rate is Rs 40/ha. The water charge by crop
(primarily for rabi crops) is levied on a per hectare irrigated basis. A
review by GOO of water charges (stipulated under Orissa I) was completed,
and in September 1981 GOO decided to raise water charges; the compulsory
charge was doubled, and crop-wise rates were increased by 50%. This repre-
sents a considerable achievement for the State and fully meets the require-
ments specified in Orissa I. The changes in crop water charge rates were
published for official use in March 1982 and are shown below per crop for
principle MIP crops:
Crop Water Charge (Rs/ha)
Crops                                    Old       New
Sugarcane                                 68       101
Paddy - rabi                              60        90
Vegetables                                30        45
Wheat                                     23        34
Groundnut                                 19        28
Jute                                      11        17
Mustard                                    7        11
Pulses                                     7        11
6.08    For a typical cropping pattern under project MIPs (paddy in kharif
and diversified crops and paddy in rabi), the water charge would total about
Rs 68 per irrigated hectare. The present policy in India as recommended by
GOI's Seventh Finance Commission (1978) is that water charges should aim to
cover working expenses plus one percent annually of investment costs for the
Government irrigation system.l/ Expenditures required for adequate operation
and maintenance (O&M) of MIPs are estimated at about Rs 90-100/ha annually,
well above water charge rates even at the recently revised levels. Water
charge collection rates are currently about 64% and have trended upward in
recent years.
6.09    Little or no direct connection exists between water charges (or
increased water charges) and O&M expenditures incurred. Water charges are
collected by the Revenue Department and go to the State Treasury as part of
general tax revenues. The level of expenditures allocated for O&M of irriga-
tion projects is a separate budgetary decision. In general, water charges
are treated as a tax, rather than as a charge for providing a service.
1/  See "Economic Situation and Prospects in India", IBRD, May 1982, p. 126.



-37-
6.10    To meet the improved performance standards specified under the
project, adequate O&M is essential. Under the project a water charge and O&M
study would be undertaken. The study would review and analyze the level of
actual expenditures on O&M for existing MIPs, expenditures required for
adequate O&M of MIPs constructed under the project, the status and level of
water charge collections under present practices, possibilities for identify-
ing and handling O&M expenditures and water charge receipts for each MIP as a
separate item in the State budget process, alternative water charge systems
(including volumetric water charges), and possibilities for organizing
farmers at project MIPs to purchase water and help improve water charge
collections. The study would include recommendations based on its findings.
6.11    Agreements have been reached that GOO would:  (a) undertake by
March 31, 1984 a study on the appropriate water charge system with the objec-
tive of covering full operation and maintenance costs and a reasonable por-
tion of capital costs, and on measures to improve collection of water char-
ges; (b) furnish to IDA by December 31, 1985 the water charge study, and
thereafter implement the recommendations of the study, taking into account
the IDA's comments and having regard inter alia to the incentives and repay-
ment capacity of farmers; (c) in the interim, review water charges in the
light of the Eighth Finance Commission recommendations; and (d) until recom-
mendations of the water charges study are implemented make annual budget
allocations adequate to meet O&M expenditure requirements for project MIPs.
GOO also assured that its Standing Water Rates Review Board would provide
its review of the Eighth Finance Commission water charge recommendations by
March 31, 1985; it is estimated that the interim increase in water charges
should be such as to achieve an average of about Rs 80-85 per irrigated
hectare for a typical MIP, and this would be reviewed by the Board. GOO
further assured that it would follow the recommendations of the Eighth
Finance Commission, which has already been constituted by GOI and is expected
to report (including recommendations on adequate budget allocations for O&M
during the coming Seventh Plan period) by November, 1983.
Estimated Cost and Rent Recovery
6.12    The average cost of MIPs would be about Rs 9,690/ha in net present
value terms. The annual charge for full recovery of capital costs over 30
years at 12% would amount to about Rs 1,200/ha per year. The estimated
annual O&M cost is about Rs 90-100/ha and the total annual cost would thus
amount to some Rs 1300/ha, which is far more than the estimated annual water
charge as above from a typical irrigated hectare. However, increased tax
revenues from other sources as a result of MIP investments would be substan-
tial.
6.13    The land revenue assessment, which depends on the soil type and the
location of the plot, averages about Rs 20 per ha for irrigated land. Large
farmers owning more than 10 ha of irrigated or 20 ha of unirrigated land are
subject to a graded producer's levy. More important, however, is the sales
tax on agricultural goods. Paddy purchased by millers and wholesalers is
taxed at 7%. Rice that has not been taxed as paddy is taxed at 3%; other
foodgrains, pulses and oilseeds are taxed at 3%. If it is assumed that all
the incremental production due to the MIPs would be marketed, the increase in



-38-
average tax receipts as a result of project MIPs would amount to about Rs 196
per ha annually. 1/
6.14    Based on estimated incremental income and costs, estimated annual
project rent at full development would be Rs 2410/ha for MIPs and Rs 1408/ha
for CAD works (Tables 13 and 14). Considering water charges, land revenue,
market fees (3%), and rice mill taxes (7%), recovery of estimated project
cost and rent would be as follows (Tables 17a and 17b): 2/
Rent                    Cost
Recovery %              Recovery %
MIPs              27                       22
CAD                20                      68
Total Project      25                      36
6.15    Despite various efforts to increase Government revenues, Orissa has
one of the lowest taxation rates in India, and the States's per capita tax
revenue ranks 17 among the 21 States. Payment capacity for higher taxes is,
however, severely limited. The average per capita income in Orissa ranks 16
among the States. Rural per capita income in Orissa has been virtually
stagnant in recent years, and Orissa has a larger portion of its rural
population below the poverty line than any other State in India.
6.16    Low and uncertain benefits from irrigation projects as presently
designed and operated, combined with the small size of holdings and generally
low level of agricultural productivity and income, have been major reasons
for low water charges. With improved project design standards and better
management, farm incomes are expected to increase significantly. However,
these benefits (and thus the ability to support higher water charge payments)
would not be fully realized until the early 1990s. Because of the sig-
nificant differences anticipated in farm income and economic rent for farmers
in irrigation projects under traditional standards compared to projects under
the Orissa II standards, careful analysis is needed of the ability of farmers
to pay water charges before an improved and feasible cost recovery plan can
be finalized.
1/ Neglected here is the "tax" collected (primarily from larger farmers who
have more marketable surplus) through the requirement that paddy traders
or millers sell a portion of their paddy at the below-market procurement
price. The procurement price averages about 85% of the market price, and
on average about 1.5% of paddy production is procured.
2/ Water charges and other government receipts as a result of the project
are expected to increase over time. Rent and cost recovery calculations
assume that Orissa will gradually increase water rates and other charges
to recover about 30% of annual project rent at full development early in
the next decade. Experience in other Indian States indicates that rent
recovery on the order of 30% is achievable.



-39-
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION
Project Impact
7.01    General.  The project is expected to directly benefit some of the
poorest areas of India through increased agricultural production and
generally enhanced economic development prospects. Through expanded area
under irrigation and increased productivity of existing irrigated land, the
project would increase foodgrain production and provide additional year-round
employment opportunities to landless laborers and small farmers. These
benefits would improve the welfare of Orissa's rural people who are among the
poorest in India. In addition, general economic prosperity depends heavily
on agricultural performance, which is generally low and highly variable due
to the vagaries of the monsoon. Increased irrigation would raise and stabi-
lize agricultural production, and contribute to overall economic progress in
the State.
7.02    The project would result in institutional strengthening and develop-
ment in the irrigation sector. Organizational arrangements introduced under
the project to improve local capabilities for project planning, design and
implementation would produce technically better irrigation projects.
Improved management and operational procedures for MIPs, closely integrated
with the promotion of positive farmer participation and specifically designed
and targeted support for agricultural intensification, would aim to enhance
the technical and economic achievements and viability of irrigation project
investments. Support of a systematic R&D and manpower development program
aimed at strengthening both technical and institutional capabilities would
provide the basis for continued upgrading of performance in the irrigation
sector in the future.
7.03    Production and Employment Impact.  Investments in MIPs and CAD would
at full development directly increase the value of crop production in the
State by about Rs 440 M 1/ (US$46 M) annually. MIPs and OFD under the
project would directly benefit some 100,000 farm families; an additional
110,000 farm families would benefit from land consolidation. Project con-
struction activities would generate about 19 M man-days of construction
employment over the four-year project period. In addition, as a result of
increased irrigated area, farm employment would expand by about 9 M man-days.
The largest share of these benefits would arise from construction and opera-
tion of MIPs. The project is also expected to produce substantial secondary
benefits for general economic development in the interior areas of the State
which are among the most backward in India.
1/ Including grain, oilseeds, pulses and lentils.



-40-
7.04    Poverty Impact.  At present the average per capita income of farmers
in the MIP areas is only about 20% of the average per capita income for
India. The introduction of MIPs would significantly reduce the incidence of
poverty. Under the project, net farm income in MIP areas would increase on
average from about Rs 980 per ha at present to about Rs 4,000 per ha at full
development. OFD works, while located in some of the State's most prosperous
areas, would benefit most the tail-end farmers who have in the past suffered
from insufficient and unreliable water supply because of their location. Net
farm income in OFD areas is expected to rise from about Rs 1960/ha at present
to Rs 5780/ha at full development. An estimated total of about 35,000 farm
families (210,000 individuals) in the project areas would move out of the
poverty classification as officially defined (annual per capita income less
than Rs 840).
Economic Analysis
7.05    Main Assumptions.  The assumptions used in the economic analysis are
detailed in Annex 2 and summarized below:
(a) Prices and Conversion Factors. Agricultural output was valued
on the basis of IBRD projected average 1990/95 world market prices
expressed in 1982 currency values with adjustments for freight
handling and processing. The financial prices of non-traded
cost and benefit items including labor have been adjusted by
by appropriate conversion factors to bring them to the same
price basis as for traded items.
(b) Without and With Project Situation. No substantial changes in
production and income levels are expected in the MIP area
without the project (i.e., under rainfed agriculture). The
projections for the "without" and "with" project situation were
based on field surveys, district yield statistics, data from
research stations and extension staff estimates. The benefits
and costs of MIPs under Orissa I and II were not separated.
(c) Capital Costs. MIP capital costs include sunk costs for each
MIP. They were adjusted by the CCF with the sunk cost brought
to September 1982 price levels using the Indian Wholesale Price
Index. For CAD, the cost of modernization of existing irrigation
systems in both the coastal and non-coastal areas as well as
land consolidation and canal improvement was included.
(d) Build-up Rates. In the case of MIPs "full development" stage
is assumed to be reached in year 5 for cultivated areas and
year 8 for scrub areas. In the case of OFD areas, full
development is expected at year 6.



-41-
7.06    Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return (ERR) for the
project, including sunk costs for MIPs begun under Orissa I, is estimated at
19% for the project as a whole. It would be arbitrary to separate the
benefits and the costs of Orissa I and II. Substantial investments have been
made in MIPs under Orissa I, and a number of MIPs are nearing completion.
The bulk of project investments under the proposed project would be to com-
plete ongoing MIPs. Because of the large sunk costs already incurred, the
expected return on investments under Orissa II alone would be very high, and
investments to complete ongoing MIPs are therefore clearly justified. ERR
calculations, including sunk costs for individual MIPs, are detailed in
Table 19. The results of ERR calculations for the project (including MIP
sunk costs) are summarized below:
ERR
MIPS                                    (
Completed                  (1)                15
Partially Operational    (11)                 13
Starting Construction      (6)                16
New                        (6)                16
Average (weighted)                          14
OFD
Coastal Areas                                 48
Non-coastal Areas                             47
Average                                     48
Project                                   19
Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
7.07    Agricultural production in the project area is highly sensitive to
variations in weather, and in particular to the quantity and timing of rain-
fall. Increased irrigation under the project is expected to reduce the
impact of weather variations as well as raise production levels. However,
poor rainfall and weather even with the project could adversely affect the
economic viabilty of the project by reducing benefits. Further, additional
cost overruns and delays could occur. The overall sensitivity of project
MIPs to cost and benefit uncertainties was analyzed using switching values
discounted at 12% over 30 years. The relevance of the sensitivity analysis
results for costs depends on the amount of construction work already com-
pleted relative to amount remaining to be completed; the risk of additional
large cost overruns and delays is significantly greater in MIPs recently
appraised than in MIPs nearing completion. Sensitivity analyses in terms of
switching values for MIPs representing three cases (completed, partially
completed and starting construction) are presented below (detailed calcula-
tions are shown in Table 19 and Annex 2):



-42-
Appraisal     Switching       Change
Variables Tested              Value          Value            %
Completed (Dumerbahal)
Net Incremental Benefits (RsM)        40.4           23.5            -41
Partially Completed (Sarapgarh)
Net Incremental Benefits (RsM)        25.8           22.1            -14
Construction Costs (RsM)              22.6           24.5              8
Construction Period (Years)            7              8               14
Starting Construction (Hariharjore)
Net Incremental Benefits (RsM)        83.1           56.5            -32
Construction Costs (RsM)              63.5           76.8             21
Construction Period (Years)             8              9              13
7.08    Detailed sensitivity analyses for MIPs indicate that their economic
viability is sensitive to a number of the problems which have affected Orissa
I (Table 19). These problems include delayed or incomplete land clearing
(reclamation), delayed or incomplete watercourses, predominantly paddy crop
patterns in the rabi season, lower than expected yields, cost overruns, and
restricted rabi season water supplies. Most of these problems are essen-
tially institutional or organizational in nature, and can generally be dealt
with at relatively low financial cost. However, cost overruns and short rabi
season water supplies are more related to MIP design and engineering and
would require more careful economic evaluation during the course of project
implementation. Measures to deal with these problems have been included
under the proposed project. The primary risk to the project is that these
problems would not be adequately dealt with, and in particular that the
necessary institutional and organizational changes would not be implemented;
for example, improved MIP management. That risk would be minimized through
strengthened monitoring and supervision of the project, better management
information for implementation, and improved coordination among agencies
involved.
Environmental Impact
7.09     The project is not expected to have any negative environmental
impacts. In addition, agreements would be reached that GOO would take all
necessary measures to minimize the risks of malaria and other water related
diseases within the project areas.



-43-
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    Agreement has been reached with GOI that it would make the proceeds
of the IDA credit available to GOO for the project in accordance with estab-
lished procedures for GOI development assistance to the States (para 4.05).
8.02    Agreements have been reached with GOI and GOO that they would:
(a) Ensure adequate State budget resources and financing to
implement the project over the four-year project implementation
period (para 4.05);
(b) Implement the project substantially in accordance with the
estimated implementation schedule (para 4.13); and
(c) Monitor ongoing MIPs and appraise and monitor new MIPs in accordance
with agreed procedures (para 5.07).
8.03    Agreements have been reached with GOO that it would:
(a) Carry out planning, design, construction, operation and
maintenance of MIPs and OFD in accordance with established
technical and economic criteria (para 3.20);
(b)  (i)  For MIPs, begin regular irrigation deliveries to any chak
only after appropriate rotational water allocation procedures
have been established among the farmers of that chak, and in
chaks where water deliveries have already begun, establish
such procedures by October 31, 1984; and
(ii) For OFD chaks, establish appropriate rotational water
allocation procedures within sixty days after completion of
OFD works, and in OFD chaks completed under Orissa I establish
such procedures by October 31, 1984 (para 3.21);
(c)  (i)  Maintain separate accounts for project expenditures;
(ii) Ensure that such project accounts are audited annually
and that copies of such accounts certified as to their
accuracy by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA
are submitted to IDA not later than nine months after
the end of each fiscal year;
(iii) Have final audits prepared for project accounts for each
fiscal year by an auditor acceptable to IDA and
forward such audit reports to IDA immediately after
their finalization; and
(iv) Make complete accounts and financial statements available
for inspection during IDA review missions (para 4.14);
(d) Establish by August 31, 1983 and thereafter maintain a State
Coordinating and Monitoring Committee chaired by the GOO
Development Commissioner (para 5.02);



-44-
(e)  Establish by March 31, 1984 and thereafter apply a management
information and monitoring system for construction under the
project and operation of MIPs (para 5.02);
(f)  (i)  Prepare and furnish to IDA by March 31, 1984 for its
review and comment a model MIP Management Plan; and
(ii) For each project MIP prepare and apply a detailed
Management Plan not later than six months before commencing
irrigation in the MIP or not later than September 30, 1984
for MIPs which have already started operation (para 5.11);
(g)  (i)  Maintain a suitably qualified Assistant Engineer at each
project MIP with responsibilties and functions as needed for
efficient management of the MIP; and
(ii)  Establish and thereafter maintain at each project NIP a
WMC, with membership to include inter alia the MIP Assistant
Engineer, representatives of Orissa's concerned departments,
and farmers representatives including the Chairman of the
local elected body (Panchayat Samiti) (para 5.12);
(h)  Carry out detailed surveys adequate for land acquisition and
aligning canals and watercourses not later than six months
prior to carrying out of construction works in MIPs (para 5.14);
(i)  Take all action necessary to strengthen its agricultural
extension and supply support for carrying out the project,
including adequate supply of production inputs, agricultural
credit and market facilities six months prior to completion
of each MIP (para 5.15);
(j)  (i)  Establish an R&D Cell with responsibilities, functions and
staffing as needed by March 31, 1984;
(ii) Form the R&D and Training Technical Advisory Committee with
appropriate functions, responsibilities and membership by
June 30, 1984; and
(iii) Prepare and furnish to IDA by September 30, 1984 for
its review and comment work plans and schedules for R&D and
training activities under the project (para 5.24);
(k) Take all action necessary to ensure quality control in respect of
design, construction, and maintenance of MIPs (para 5.29);
(1)  (i)  Maintain its existing Dam Safety Panel of experts to review the
plans and designs of project MIP dams and related structures;
(ii) Cause the Panel to conduct periodic reviews of such dams and
related structures during design and construction; and
(iii) Cause dams and related structures constructed under the
project to be periodically inspected in accordance with sound
engineering practice to determine if any deficiencies exist
in their condition or in the quality and adequacy of their
maintenance or methods of operation which may endanger their
their safety (para 5.30);



-45-
(m) (i) Undertake by March 31, 1984 a study on the appropriate water
charge system with the objective of covering full operation
and maintenance costs and a reasonable portion of capital costs,
and on measures to improve collection of water charges;
(ii) Furnish to IDA by December 31, 1985 the water charge study,
and thereafter implement the recommendations of the study,
taking into account IDA's comments and having regard
inter alia to the incentives and repayment capacity of farmers;
(iii) In the interim, review water charges in light off the Eighth
Finance Commission recommendations; and
(iv) Until recommendations of the water charges study are implemented,
make annual budget allocations adequate to meet O&M expenditure
requirements for project MIPs (para 6.11); and
(n) Take all necessary measures to minimize the risks of malaria and
other water-related diseases in the project areas (para 7.09).
8.03    With the above assurances and conditions, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$105.0 M on standard terms. US$6.0 M would
be available from the loan for retroactive financing of qualified
expenditures incurred on or after April 1, 1983. The borrower would
be GOI.



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Status of MIPs under Orissa I Project
Progress of Construction of MIPs Under Orissa I 1/
Cumulative Progress of Construction (Z of total)
Cultivable                Expected Date of          Dam           Spillway         Main Canals   Dist. and Minors  W  courses to 5 ha
Comnmnd Area  Overall         Completion       Target  Actual  Target  Actual  Target  Actual   Target  Actual            Target  Actual
Name of Project         (ha)      Status 1/ Original Revised          I       X        Z        X        X        S         %       Z            Z        X
1.  Daha              4580           B          3/82     3/85      98       98       75       53      99       98        70       76          20       15
2.  Ramiala           9600           B          3/82      3/85    100      100      100      100      100     100        75       70          35        15
3.  Sunei            10000           C          3/82      3/86     90       87       26       22       35       40         8       4            -       -
4.  Kuanria            3600          B          6/82      3/85    100      100       60       75       75      67         50      50           15       9
5.  Dumerbahal        2800           A          3/81      3/83    100      100      100      100      100     100       100      100         100        99
6.  Gohira            8100           C          3/82     3/85      99       98       90       94      94       90        49       55          42        46
7. Remal              3900           C          3/82      3/85     90       90       10       26      95       94        90       90           15         5
8.  Pillasalki         2388          B          6/82      3/84    100      100       90       85       85      88        65       60           64        44
9.  Sarapgarh          2238          C          6/82      3/85    100       96       47       40      100     100       100       99          100         -
10.  Jharbandh          2043          C          3/83      3/85    100       40 3/    -         -     100       99       100       99         100          _
11.  Talsara            3036          C          6/82      3/85    100       99       90       45      100      97       100       80         100          _
12.  Hariharjore        9950          D          3/85      3/87      71      71       21       21       50       50         -       -            -         -
13.  Harbhangi          9650          D          3/85      3/88      16      10       10        2       70       55        40       5            -         -
14.  Kanjhari           9800          C          3/85      3/87     60       75       65       40       25      -           -       -            -         -
15.  Bankbal            7200          D          6/86      6/86      25      35        5        -        -      -          _        _            _         _
16.  Kansbahal          5050          D          3/86      6/86      -        2        -        -        -      -          -        -            -         -
17. Upper Jonk          9920          D          3/87      3/88       -       -                     -       -         -         -                -         -
18.  Badanala          9800           D          6/86      3/88      -        -        -        -        -      -          -        -            -         -
1/  GOO estimates as of December 3, 1982, updated April, 1983.
I/  Code as follows:
A. Completed.
B. Completed by October 1983 except 5 ha block watercourses.
C. Operable by October 1983 without spillway gates and 5 ha block watercourses partially completed.
D. Early stage of construction.
3/ Masonry dam.



-47-
TABLE lb
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Status of MIPs under Orissa I Project
Expenditures and Budgets for MIPs under Orissa I 1/
(Rs M)
Total Estimated Cost
Including Price Escalation    Cumulative Expenditures Budget 2/
Original   Revised          up to    11/77 to   Total    Total    Plan
Name of Project           CWC         GOO            10/77    12/82       12/82    03/83    83/84
1.  Daha                 87.5       109.6           13.5       96.7      100.2    111.3        5.7
2.  Ramiala             132.7       132.7            20.4      76.9       97.3    101.7       10.0
3.  Sunei               121.3       192.1             1.6      90.1       91.7    100.0       25.0
4.  Kuanria               74.5      100.9             0.3      84.6       84.9      87.8       9.0
5.  Dumerbahal           37.1        37.1             5.3      26.0       31.2      31.3       0.2
6.  Gohira              109.6       168.5             6.9      80.4       87.4      88.4      25.5
7.  Remal                57.3       100.2             4.4      78.7       83.0      88.1      15.0
8.  Pillasalki            40.1       67.9             4.9       60.4      65.4      68.8       3.2
9.  Sarapgarh            38.1        46.5             0.1      34.0       34.1      38.5       5.0
10.  Jharbandh            22.8        28.7              -       17.0       17.0      21.2       4.0
11.  Talsara               51.8       54.0             0.2      46.9       47.1      50.8       5.1
12.  Harihariore         177.6       177.6              -       59.7       59.7      66.8      15.0
13.  Harbhangi            187.9      283.2              -       54.8       54.8      64.8      15.0
14.  Kanjhari            155.2       155.2              -       76.3       76.3      85.2      15.0
15.  Bankbal             151.3       151.3             -        27.1       27.1      31.1       5.0
16.  Kansbahal            99.7       149.3              -       12.4       12.4      21.1       4.0
17.  Upper Jonk          202.9       202.9              -        5.1        5.1       7.4       6.0
18.  Badanala            208.4       258.9              -         6.5       6.5      12.2       6.7
Total              1955.8      2416.6           57.6      933.6      991.2   1076.5    174.4
1/ As of December 31, 1982.
2/ Actual budget expenditures in recent periods have averaged about
Rs 250 million annually.
Notes:   The revised total cost estimates and budget provisions for 83/84 are
being reviewed by GOO and subject to change. Figures shown here are
from the progress report for the period ending November 1982.



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Climatic Data 1/
Annual
Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun    Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec    Average
Mean Temperature ( C)
Keonjhar                         19.0   21.9   26.2   29.8   31.0   29.1   26.3   25.2   26.7   24.8   21.9   19.0
Hirakud                          20.7   24.3   28.2   32.4   34.3   32.5   28.4   26.6   28.6   27.8   24.6   21.2
Mean Relative Humidity (Z)
Keonjhar                         59      54     40      48     53      69      82     82      83     76      66      60
Hirakud                          64      58     51      45     44      60      80     80      79     72      68      65
Wind Speed (km/hr)
Keonjhar                          3.9    4.9    5.7    7.0    7.8    8.7    8.0    7.0    5.4    3.7    2.9    2.9
Hirakud                           3.1    3.2    3.5    3.9    5.2    6.2    5.7    5.8    4.4    2.9    2.8    2.5
Rainfall (mm)
Keonfhar                          8.8   10.4   24.3   31.0   99.1  176.1  265.8  301.5  242.8  111.2   19.8    6.7   1,297.5
Hirakud                           5.2   13.2   18.9   11.3   28.5  165.6  380.9  366.5  148.9   45.6    5.1    3.1   1,193.0
Class A Pan Evaporation
(mm/month)
KeonJhar                        111    137    221    258    289    208    143    129    115    117    109    100            1,937.0
Hirakud                          75    101    156    206    255    177         93     84    100    109       87      70     1,513.0
Water Use By Reference Crop 2/
(ETo mm/month)
Keonjhar                         94    116    177    206    231    166    114    103         98      99      93     85      1,582.0
Hirakud                          63     86    132    176    216    142         74     67     84      92      74      55     1,261.0
1/ Keonjhar: Keonjhar meteorological Station (rainfall 1969-1978 and all other data 1958-1972).
Hirakud:  Hirakud Hydrometeorological Station (1972-1981).
2/ Estimated by empirical formula using pan evaporation and climatic data.



-49-
TABLE 3
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
CCA and Number of Farm Families for MIPS
No. of            Average Size of
Project Name                   CCA (ha)        Farm Family         Land Holding (ha)
1.  Daha                       4,580             1,685                  2.7
2.  Sunei                      7,200            2,059                   3.5
3.  Ramiala                    8,500            2,721                   3.1
4.  Kuanria                    3,600            1,281                   2.8
5.  Dumerbahal                 2,800               734                  3.8
6.  Gohira                     8,100            1,080                   7.5
7.  Remal                      3,900            2,918                   1.3
8.  Pillasalki                 2,388            1,464                   1.6
9.  Sarapgarh                  2,238             1,291                  1.7
10.  Jharbandh                  2,043               834                  2.4
11.  Talsara                    3,036             1,615                  1.9
12.  Hariharjore                9,950            4,623                   2.2
13.  Harbhangi                  9,650            4,902                   2.0
14.  Kanjhari                   8,000            4,672                   1.7
15.  Kansabahal                 5,050            3,354                   1.5
16.  Bankabal                   7,200             5,750                  1.3
17.  Upper Jonk                 9,920            5,725                   1.7
18.  Badanalla                 _9,800            4,667                   2.1
Total                 107,955           51,375
Average                    5,998           2,854                   2.1
Source: CWC sub-project appraisals.



^50-                                                                TABLE 4
ORISSA IUIGT           II .nOJcT
Crop Water Requirements
(in _ per ha)
1.  Cetral Tble Land Zone 1/
Planting
Cronpe               Period          Jan       Feb       mear        A!         1L.         Jun        Jul        Au           Sep        Oct        Nov        Dec    Total
A. Usinfall                            5         13        19         11         29         166        381         367         148         46         5          3      1,193
S ETO                              32   36  40   46  60   70   82   94 106  104    80   67   45   30  28   34    40   46   50   40   38   36   30   25
C. Pre-irrization akd Rlcrop
1  Lo. Peddy      1-31 JUL        -    -   -    -   -    -    -    -    -    -    25  135  170   33   31   38    46   53   52   39    -    -    -    -    622
2 HIV Paddy        1-31 JUL       -         _    _     _    _     _     _     _     _   25  135  170   33   31   38    46   49   50    -    -    -    -    -    577
3 Maie           16-30 JUI        -     -   -    -   -    -    -    -    -    -          -   93   27   27   31   37    40   33    -    -    -    -    -    -    288
,4  roundnut    16-30 JUN           -    -   -    -   -    -    -    -    _    _          -   97   24   25   28   34    40   43    -    -    -    -    -    -    291
5  Vegtables    1-15 JUL          -83   14   19   34    40   42    -    -    _    _    _    _    232
6   YV Paddy  16 JAN-15 FI   165  186  44   55  75   77   86  93                                                                                  -    -    -   25    806
7  Wheat         16-30 NOV       35   40  44   40  30                                         -    -    -                                         -   So   20   20    309
8  Cr_             1-15 NO      35   29 -    -   -    -    -    -                                                                               75   22   26   28    215
9  Mustard       16-31 OCT       18     -   -    -   -    -    -    -    -    -          -    -    -    -    -    -        -    -    -   78   26   32   33   26    213
10  Croundnut    16-31 JAN         -   82  22   38  60   70   76   59    -    -           -    -    -    -    -    -        -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    407
11  Vegetables    1-15 0OV        37   40  34    -   -    -    -    -    -    -           -    -    -    -    -    -        -    -    -    -   76   14   23   29    253
12  Bugarcane     16-28 FE8       16   16   -  100  36   49   66   89  108  104    88   74   50   33   31   37    44   51   55   44   42   31   21   16  1,201
2. Northern Plateu Zone 2/
A. Rainfall                            9         10        24         31         99         176        266        302          243        111         20         7      1,298
I. Ift                             42   49  58   61 80   95  100  108  111  120    90   76   60   52   55   50    50   48   50   49   47   46   43   42
C. Pre-irrigation ad ZTcrop
ILoc. Paddy    1-31 JUL           -    -   -    _   _    _    _    _    _    _    25  135  185   57   61   56    58   55   52   48    -    _    -    _    732
2  Hrv Paddy       1-31 JUL       -    -   -    -   -    -    -    -    -    -    25  135 185   57   61   56    58   58   51    -    -    -    -    -    686
3 Pite           16-30 J-   - _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _                                              97   35   47   61   55    50   24    -    -    -    _ _                   369
4 0roundnut    16-30 JUlt -3 0                                                 1       -   96   32   43   55   50    50   45     -    -    -    -    -    -    371
egetabl es    1-15 SUL            -         -   -    _   -    _    _    _    _    _    _    _          24   38   54    50   44    -    -    _    _    _    _    294
I TV *Paddy  16 JA-15 FI   165  199  64   67 100  104  105   92                                    -    -      -    -                            -    -    -   25    921
7  Ha-t          16-30 IOV       45   54  64   53  40                             -    -    -    -    -        -    -                            -   85   28  34    403
8a  rm             1-15 NV       46   39 -    -   -    -    -    -    -    -             -    -                                                  79   28   3S   46    276
9  1iatar        16-31 ocT       238-   -    -   -    -    -    -    -    -              -    -                                             2   32   41   47   44    269
10 l reudnat    16-31 JA           -   85  31   51  80   95   93   63                            -      -     -    -                         -    -    -    -    -    498
11 'Vegstsules    1-15 NOV        48   54  21                         -    -    -    -    -    -        -     -    -                         -   79   17   32   48    305
12 lernae         16-28 n8        21   22 -   34  48   67   80   2  111  120    99   84   66   55   55   50    50   58   50   49   47   39   30   27  1,334
Neaic aeeptim:
fer Paddy:  Led preparation 150 -200 st:  Nursery 40m
For upla crest Pre-irrigation 60-75 _
1/ ased oen ellJtic data from the Rieekud Sydroentaorologicsl Station (1972-1981).
2/  Ned      eliutic data frm the Keonjhar Meteorological Station (1969-1976).



TABLE 5a
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Project Component by Time
(Rs '000)
Base Costs                                   Total
83/84         84/85          85/86          86/87         Rs             (US$ '000)
A. MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECT
Preliminaries                                840.6       1,093.8        2,495.9        2,208.1        6,638.4            698.8
Land Acquisition                          15,244.1      19,001.2       11,753.9       11,560.5       49,559.7          5,216.8
Project Facilities                        12,620.9       5,604.0        3,822.9        3,723.8      25,771.6          2,712.8
Rehabilitation                             3,353.3       4,336.7        3,641.9          777.4       12,109.3          1,274.7
Dam Construction                          41,366.2      64,135.5       48,295.1       20,750.4      174,547.2         18,373.4
Spillway                                 39,340.4       56,921.0       57,495.5       55,613.2     209,370.1         22,039.0
Head Regulator                             2,856.1       5,296.6        2,434.3        1,862.0       12,449.0          1,310.4
Distribution System                       48,048.1      58,225.3       50,978.6       41,953.6      199,205.1         20,969.0
Water Courses                             10,714.3      13,445.4       11,145.3       10,835.9       46,140.9          4,856.9
Sub-Total MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECT          174,384.0     228,059.5      192,062.9      141,284.9      735,791.3         77,451.7
B.  NEW MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECTS                   -              -      40,000.0       60,000.0      100,000.0         10,526.3
C.  MIP COMMUNICATIONS/TRANSPORT                 680.0              -             -              -          680.0             71.6
D. COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT
LAND CONSOLIDATION                        18,000.0      18,000.0       18,000.0       18,000.0       72,000.0          7,578.9
ON FARM DEVELOPMENT                       16,986.0      16,986.0       16,986.0       16,986.0       67,944.0          72152.0
Sub-Total COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT            34,986.0      34,986.0       34,986.0       34,986.0      139,944.0         14,578.9
E.  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING         8,004.0         341.2          565.0          437.6        9,247.8            973.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                         218,054.0     263,386.7      267,613.9      236.708.5      985,763.1        102,922.0
Physical Contingencies                   33,530.5       43,464.4       45,609.3       41,091.6      163,695.9         17,231.1
Price Contingencies                        9,743.2      36,975.6       62,912.5       77,200.8      186,832.1         19,666.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                          261,327.7     343,826.7      376,135.7      355,000.9   1,336,291.0         140,622.2
----   .    _... ..........  .........   ".------    ................   . ..... . ..........  sS-.



TAALE Sb
-52-
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Summary Account by Time
(Rs '000)
Base Costs +
Price Cont. on
Base Costs
83/84      84/85        85/86       86/87         Total       (US$ '000)
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A.  CIVIL WORKS                      175,485.3   225,244.5   235,219.1   212,754.3    848,703.2   104,124.2
Physical Contingencies            33,398.5    43,350.3    45,350.3    40,852.3    162,946.2               -
Price Contingencies                8,355.4    32,365.7    56,327.3    70,437.8    167,486.1               -
Sub-Total Including Contingencies   2173          300,960.5   336,891.6   3            1,179,135.5   104,124.2
Foreign Exchange                  32,585.9    45,144.1    50,326.1    48,220.0    176,276.0               -
B. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
EQUIPMENT                            480.0            -            -           -         480.0         52.2
Sub-Total VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT         480.0            -            -           -         480.0         52.2
Physical Contingencies                48.0            -            -           -          48.0            -
Price Contingencies                   21.1            -            -           -          21.1            -
Sub-Total Including Contingencies        549.1            -            -           -         549.1         52.2
Taxes                                 82.4            -            -           -          82.4            -
Foreign Exchange                     109.8            -            -           -         109.8            -
C.  LAND                              15,244.1    19,001.2    11,753.9       3,560.5      49,559.7      5,876.3
Price Contingencies                  609.8      2,289.6     2.370.0        995.3       6,264.7            -
Sub-Total Including Contingencies    15,853.9    21,290.8    14,123.9        4,555.8      55,824.4     5,876.3
D.  ENGINEERING                          840.6      1,093.8      2,495.9     2,208.1       6,638.4        834.1
Physical Contingencies                84.1        109.4        249.6       220.8         663.8            -
Price Contingencies                   37.0        145.0        553.6       679.0       1,414.5            -
Sub-Total Including Contingencies        961.6      1,093.8      3,299.1     3,107.9       8,716.8       834.1
E.  LAND CONSOLIDATION/R&D            26,004.0    18,000.0    18,000.0    18,000.0        80,004.0      8,794.7
Price Contingencies                  720.0      2,169.0     3,629.4      5,031.7      11,550.1           -
Sub-Total Including Contingencies    26,824.0    20,169.0    21,629.4    23,031.7         91,554.1     8,794.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           210,050.0   263,339.5   267,468.9   236,522.9    977,381.3   119,681.8
Physical Contingencies            33,530.5    43,459.7    45,594.8    41,073.1    163,658.1               -
Price Contingencies                9,743.2    36,969.3    62,880.3    77,143.7    186,736.6               -
TOTAL INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES   261,032.7   343,786.5   375,944.0   354 739 7  1,335 779.9   119,681.8
Taxes                                 WT              -            -           -          8. 
Foreign Exchange                  32,695.7    45,144.1    50,326.1    48,220.0    176,385.8               -
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES
Technical Staff                           -        47.2        145.0       185.6         377.8         48.9
Sub-Total SALARIES                            -        47.2        145.0       185.6         377.8         48.9
Physical Contingencies                   -          4.7         14.5        18.6          37.8            -
Price Contingencies                       -         6.3         32.2        57.1          95.5            -
Total Including Continencies              -        58.2        191.7       261.2         511.1         48.9
Total bASELINE COSTS                 210,050,0    263,386.7   267,613.9   236,708.5   977,759.1   119,730.8
Physical Contingencies            33,530.5      43,464.4    45,609.3    41,091.6   163,659.9              -
Price Contingencies                9,743.2      36,975.6    62,912.5    77 200.8   186,832.1              -
Total PROJECT COSTS                  261 227.7    343,826.7   376,135.7   355 000 9 1,336 291.9   119,730.8
Taxes                                 82.              -            -           -         82.4            -
Foreign Exchange                  32,695.7      45,144.1    50,326.1    48,220.0   176,385.8              -



TABLE 5c
-53-
INDIA
ORISS IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Sunara Account bs Time
(Rs '000)
Base Costs 4
Base Costs                        Price Cont, on Foreign Exchanre
------------------------------------------   Base Costs  ----------------
Unit Unit Cost No. of Units  83/84       84/85      85/86      86/87      Total       (US) '000)    I      "aunt
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
__ ___________
A. CIVIL WORKS                   1.36-200       48,001  1539334.7  195,774.6  202,127.2  183,174.9  734,411.4        90,062.2  15.0  110,161.7
Physical Contingencies                            -   28,968.3  37,456.3  38,726.8  34.936.4  140.087.9                  -  15.0  21,013.2
Price Contingencies                               -    7,292.1  28,104.3  4B8354.9  60,579.2   144,330.5                 -  14.6  21,138,8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                       189,595.2  261,335.3  289,208.9  278,690.4 1,018,829.8       90,062.2  14.9  152,313.7
Foreign Exchange                                  - 28,439.3  39,200.3   43,203.1  41,471.0   152,313.7                  -   0.0         0.0
B. EQIUIPMENT                        5-80           36    2,582.7      567.5          -          -     3,150.2          349.7  20.0      630.0-
Physical Contingencies                            -      258.3       56.8          -          -       315.0              - 20.0        63.0
Price Contingencies                               -      113.6       75.2          -          -       188.9              -  20.0       37.8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                         2,954.6      699.5          -          -    3,654.1           349.7  20.0      730.8
Taxes                                             -      443.2      104.9          -          -       548.1              -  0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                                  -      590.9      139.9          -          -       730.8              -   0.0        0.0
C. LAND ACUISITION                                   - 12,957.5  16,151.0    9,990.9    3,026.4   42f125.8            4,994.8  0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies                               -      518.3    1.946.2   2.014.5       846.0    5.325.0               -   0.0        0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                        13,475.8   18,097.2  12,005.3   3,872.4   47,450.8           4,994.8   0.0        0.0
D. ENGINEERING                                       -      714.5      929.7   2,121.5  1876.9        5,642.7          709-0   0.0        0.0
Physical Contingencies                            -       71-5       93.0      212.2      187.7       564.3              -   0.0         0-0
Price Contingencies                               -       31.4      123.2      470.5      577.1    1202.4               -  0.0         0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                           817.4    1,145.9    2,804.2    2,641.7     7.409.3          709.0  0.0         0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                     169f589.4  213.422.9  214s239.5  188,078.2  785,330.0        96,115.8  14.1  110,791.7
Physical Continmencies                               -   29,298.1  37.606.0  38,939.0  35.124.1   140P967.2                 -  15.0  21,076.2
Price Contingencies                                  -    7,955.5   30,249.0  50Y839.9  62,002.3  151s046.7                 -  14.0  21,176.5
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                              206,843.0  281,277.9  304,018.4  285,204.6 1,077,343.9       96,115.8  14.2  153,044.5
Taxes                                                -      443.2      104.9          -          -       548.l              -  0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                                     -   29,030.2  39.340.2  43,203.1  41,471.0  153,044.5                  -   0.0        0.0
11. RECLRRENT COSTS
A. ESTABLISHMENT                                    -   26S157.6  34,208.9  34o809.4  30.192,7   125,368.7          15.368.0  0.0         0.0
Physical Contingencies                           -    5,231.5    6.841.8    69361.9   5.138.5    23.573.7               -   0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies                              -    1.255.6   4,946.6   8,301.6   9,876.4   24.380.2                  -   0.0        0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                       32,644.7  45,997.3   49,472.9  45,207.7   173P322.6         15.368.0  0.0         0.0
B. ADMINISTRATION                   0.45      160,000   18,000.0  18.000.0  18,000.0  18,000.0   72,000.0            8,794.7  0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies                              -      720.0   2,169.0    3,629.4   5.031.7   119550.1                 -  0.0         0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                       18.720.0  20,169.0   21,629.4   23,031.7   83w550.1          8,794.7  0.0         0.0
C. TRAINING aND STUDIES                             -      210.0      260.0      310.0      410.0    1.190.0           148.1  0.0         0.0
Price Continsencies                              -        8.4       31.3       62.5      114.6       216.8              -   0.0        0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                          218.4      291.3      372.5      524.6    1406.8           148.1  0.0         0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                       44,367.6  52,468.9  53,119.4  48.602.7   198,558.7          24,310.8  0.0         0.0
Physical Contingencies                               -    5,231.5   6,841.8   6W361.9   5,138.5   23Y573.7                  -   0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies                                  -    1,984.0    7,146.9   11.993.5  15,022.7   36,147.2                -  0.0         0.0
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                               51P583.1  66,457.7  71,474.8  68764.0  258t279.6           240310.8  0.0         0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                        213,957.0  265P891.8  267,358.9  236,680.9  983,888.7       120,426.6  11.3  110,791.7
Physical Contingncies                                 -   34,529.6  44.447.8  45.300.9  40,262.6  164,540.9                  -  12.8  21,076.2
Price Contingencies                                   -    9,939.5  37,395.9   62,B33,4   77.025.0   1879193.9               -  11.3  21s176.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         258,426.1  347,735.6  375.493.3  353968,6 1335W623.5        120,426.6  11.5  153,044.5
Taxs                                                  -      443.2      104.9          -          -       548.1              -   0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchanre                                      -   29,030.2  39,340.2  439203.1  41,471.0  153,044.5                  -   0.0        0.0
April 28, 1983  1:08



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Table 101. ONGOING MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECTS
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '000)
Base Costs                                   Totals Including Contingencies
83/84      84/85      85/86      86/87      Total      83/84      84/85      B5/86      86/87       Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. PRELIMINARIES            714.5       929.7    2,121.5    1,876.9    5,642.7      817.4    1,145.9    2,804.2    29641.7      7,409.3
B. LAND ACQUISITION       12,957.5   16,151.0    9y990.8   3,026.4  42,125.8   13,475.8   18,097.2   12,005.3    3,872.4    47,450.8
C. PROJECT FACILITIES     10,727.8    4,763.4   3i249.5   3,165.2   21v905.9  13,388.3    6,404.9   4,682.2    4,853.2    297328.6
D. LAND RECLAIMATION       2,850.3    3,686.2    3,0Y95.6     660.8   10,292.9    3,557.2    4,956.5    4,460.5    1,013.2    13,987.4
E. DAM CONSTRUCTION       35,161.3   54,515.2   41,050.8   17Y637.8  148,365.1   43,881.3  73,301.1   59,150.9   27,044.0   203,377.2
F. SPILLWAY               33,439.3   48,382.9   48871.2   47y271.2  177,964.6   41,732.3   65s055.6   70,419.3   72,480.6   249,687.8
G. HEAD REGULATOR          2,427.7    4,502.1    2,069.2    1,582.7   1O,581.7    3,029.8    6,053,5    2,981,5    2,426.7    14,491.5
H. DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM    40Y840.9   49,517.0   43,331.4  35,660.6  169,349.8  50,969.4  66,580.6   62,436.9  54,678.1   234,665.0
I. WATER COURSES          9,107.2   11,428.6    9,473.5    9,210.5   39,219.8   11,365.7   15,366.9   13Y650#5  14,122.4    54,505.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS      148,226.4  193,876.1  163,253.5  120,092.2  625,448,2  182,217.1  256,962.2  232,591.4  183,132.5   854,903.2
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. ESTABLISHMENT         26,157.6   34,208.9   28Y809.4   21,192.7  110,368.7   32,644.7   45y997.3  41,542.1   32,540,3   152,724.4
Total RECURRENT COSTS        26,157.6   34,208.9   28,809.4   21,192.7  110,368.7   32,644.7   45,997.3  41,542.1   32,540.3   152,724.4
Total BASELINE COSTS         174,384.0  228,085.0  192,063.0  141,284.9  735,816.9  214,861.8  302Y959.5  274,133.6  215,672.8 1,007,627.6
Lnl
--- -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - -- -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - ---=- - -- - -- - --=_-- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -



-55-
TABLE 5e
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Table 102. NEW MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECTS
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '000)
Base Costs                      Totals Including Contingencies
83/84 84/85  85/86    86/87    Total   83/84 84/85  85/86    86/87          Total
I. INVESTIMENT COSTS
A, NEW MEDIUMi IRROATION PROJECTS         -     - 34,000.0 51,000.0 854000,0        -      - 48,991.2 78,198.0  127,189.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                       -      - 34,O00.0 51,O00.0 85,000.0              - 48,991.2 78,198.0  127,189.1
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. ESTABLISHIMENT                        -     -  6,000.0  9000.0 15,000.0        -     -  7,930.8 12,667.4   20,598.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                        -     -  6,000.0  9,000.0 15.000#0        -      -  7,930.8 12,667.4   20,598.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                          -      - 40,000.0 60.000.0100,000.0       -      - 56,922.0 90,865.4  147,787.4
April 28, 1983  10:07



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Table 501. COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '000)
Base Costs                              Totals Including Contingencies
83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87        Total      83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87        Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LAND CONSOLIDATION
LAND CONSOLIDATION                18,000.0 18,000.0 18,000.0 18,000.0   72000.0 18,720.0 20,169.0 21,629.4 23,031,7   83,550.1
B. ON FARM DEVELOPMENTb/
COASTAL AREAS                     13,872.0 13f872.0 13,872.0 13,872.0   55,488.0 15,869.6 17,097.9 18Y322.7 19,497.4   70,787.6
NONCOASTAL AREAS                   3,114.0  3f114.0  3,114.0  3F114.0   12,456.0  3,562.4  3,838.2  4,113.1  4Y376.8   15,890.5
Sub-Total ON FARM DEVELOPMENT         16,986.0 16,986.0 16Y986.0 16,986.0   67,944.0 19,432.0 20,936.1 22,435.8 23,874.1   86,678.0
Ta N T T S3 8     34-986-0 34-986.0 34-986.0  139-944.0 38-152.0 41-105.1 44-0---2 46,905-8  170--228.
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                   34r986.0 340986.0 34Y986.0 34Y986.0  1390944.0 38Y152.0 41Y105.1 44f065.2 46,905.8  170,228.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                      34,986.0 34,986.0 34,986.0 34,986.0  139944.0 38f152.0 41,105.1 44,065.2 46,905.8  170,228.1
1--h
1/ Estimates for OFD include approximately Rs 800/ha base cost for modernization of parent channels
serving OFD chaks.



-57-
TABLE 5g
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Table 301. RESEARCH D DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING
Detailed Cost Table
(Rs '000)
Base Costs                 Totals Including Contingencies
83/84   84/85  85/86  86/87  Total    83/84   84/85  85/86  86/87  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. WATERCOURSE AND CANAL LINING          1,264.0 1,264.0      -      - 2,528,0 1,577+5 1,699.6      -      - 3,277.0
B. IMPROVED CANAL REGULATION
STRUCTURES                              417.3  417.3       -      -  834.6  520.8  561.1         -      - 1,081.9
CANAL REGULATION EQUIPHIENT           1,620.2       -      -      - 1,620.2 1,853.5       -      -      - 1,853.5
Sub-Total IMPROVED CANAL REGULATION      2,037.5  417.3       -      - 2,454.8 2,374.3  561.1       -      - 2,935.4
C. QUALITY CONTROL UNIT
____________________
VEHICLES                                140.0       -      -      -   140.0   160.2       -      -      -   160.2
MEASURING AND TESTING DEVICES            60.0              -      -   60.0   68.6         -      -      -    68.6
Sub-Total QUALITY CONTROL UNIT             200.0       -      -      -   200.0   228.8       -      -      -   228.8
D. DESIGN OFFICE
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                        475.0       -      -      -  475.0   543.4        -      -      -  543.4
VEHICLES                                200.0       -      -      -  200.0   228.8        -      -      -   228,8
Sub-Total DESIGN OFFICE                    675.0       -      -      -   675.0   772.2       -      -      -   772.2
E. R&D AND TRAINING FACILITIES
BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES                113,0  112.0       -      -   225.0   141.0  150.6       -      -   291.6
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                         87.5   87.5       -      -   175.0  100.1   107.8       -      -   207.9
Sub-Total RID AND TRAINING FACILITIES      200.5  199.5       -      -   400.0  241.1  258.4        -      -   499.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                      4,377.0 1,880.8      -      - 6,257.8 5,193.9 29519.1      -      - 70713.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
________ ______
A. TRAINING AND STUDIES                   210.0   260.0  310.0  410.0 1,190.0   218.4   291.3  372.5 524.6 1,406.8
Total RECURRENT COSTS                         210.0  260.0  310.0  410.0 1,190.0   218.4   291.3  372.5 524.6 1406,8
Total BASELINE COSTS                         4,587.0 2,140.8  310.0  410.0 7,447.8 5,412.3 2Y810.4  372.5 524.6 9Y119#9
-------- -------- -------- -------- ------- -------- --------==------ ------==------- -------- -------- -------- -------



-58-
TABLE 6
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Financing Plan
(RB M)
Components                        GOI/GOO             IDA            Total
MIPs                               311.4             844.9          1,156.3
CAD 1/                              26.7             143.5             170.2
R & D and Training                 _-                  9.5               9.5
Total                          338.1             997.5          1,335.6
1/ Includes minimum-cost canal modernization to be done by ID.



-59-
TABLE 7
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Implementation 1/
(Rs M)
Component                    1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87    Total
Medium Irrigation Projects
Ongoing MIPs
Total Expenditures (Rs M)    214.9    303.8         374.2    215.7   1008.4
MIPs Completed (Nos.) 2/         1         9          1         4        15
New MIPs
Total Expenditures (Rs M)        -         -         56.9      90.9    147.8
MIPs Started (Nos.)              -         -          3         3         6
Command Area Development
Land Consolidation
Total Expenditures (Rs M)       18.7      20.2       21.6      23.0     83.6
Area ('000 ha)                   40        40         40        40        160
On-Farm Development
Total Expenditures (Rs M)       19.4      20.9       22.4      23.9     86.7
Area ('000 ha)                   12        12         12        12       48
R & D and Training
Total Expenditures (Rs M)        5.4       2.8        0.4       0.5      9.1
Total Project Cost (Rs M)          258.4    347.7       375.5    354.0   1335.6
1/ Based on April-March fiscal year.
2/ Out of 18 MIPs ongoing from Orissa I.



-60-
TABLE 8
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule 1/
(US$ M)
IDA Fiscal Year                     During
and Semester                      Semester                   Cumulative
1983
2nd                                 6.5                          6.5
1984
1st                                 8.6                         15.2
2nd                                11.8                         27.1
1985
lst                                13.6                         40.7
2nd                               14.2                          55.0
1986
1st                                14.7                         69.8
2nd                                14.5                         84.4
1987
ist                                14.1                         98.5
2nd                                 7.0                        105.0
1/ Not based on country or sector disbursement profiles because major
components are all ongoing and expected to maintain approximately the
same rate of expenditures and disbursements as achieved under Orissa I.



-61-
TABLE 9
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Allocation of the Loan
(US $ M)
Category                   Amount Allocated                 % Financed
(1) Civil works for MIPs
(a) Dams, spillways and
head regulators                    45.0                60% of expenditures
(b)  Main and branch canals             20.0                95% of expenditures
(c)  Distributaries, minors,
watercourses and other
works                              25.0               95% of expenditures
(2) Equipment and vehicles                    1.8               100% of foreign
or ex-factory
expenditures, or
70% of local
expenditures.
(3) Research and development,
training, technical assis-
tance and moniltoring and
evaluation                               1.0                100% of expenditures
(4) Land consolidation                        5.9               Rs 350 per ha
consolidated
(5) (a) OFD works                             2.3               Rs 460 per ha
served for com-
pleted works
(b) Canal works for OFD areas            1.0               95% of expenditures
(6) Unallocated                               3.0
TOTAL                                105,000,000



-62-
INDIA                                                                TABLE 10
ORISSA InIIGATIOU 11 PROJECT
Area, Yields and Production a1
I. Medium Irrigation Projects
b/
Present                Future Without Project                                         Future With Project
tainfed                       Irrmigted                        Total
Iharif          Area     Yield      Prod.      Area      Yield      Prod.     Area      Yield      Prod.      Area-      ield     Prod.      Are-      Yield      Prod.
Local Paddy    47,936'   1.3        62,317    47,936    1.4         67,110    3,240      1.6        5,184    33,480    2.2         73,656    36,720    2.1        78,840
YYV Paddy        6,741    1.5       10,112      6,741    1.6        10,786      -         -           -       49,680    3.2      158,976    49,680    3.2         49,680
Kaise            2,247'   0.9        2,022      2,247    0.9         2,022       -        -           -        2,160    1.8         3,888     2,160    1.8         3,888
g.gi             4,494    0.7        3,146      4,494    0.7         3,146    2,160      0.8        1,728        -        -           -       2,160    0.8         1,728
Pulses           5,992    0.5        2,996      5,992    0.5         2,996    5,400      0.6        3,246        -        -          -        5,400    0.6         3,240
Groundnut        1,498    1.2        1,798      1,498    1.2         1,798      -         -           -        4,320    1.9        8,208      4,320    1.9         8,208
Vegetables         -        -          -          -        -           -         I        -           -        2 160   13.0       28,080      2,160   13.0        28,080
Sub-total       7II0                          6,908                         10,800                               0102,600
Rabi
HYV Paddy                   -          -          -        -            -        -        -           -        8,640    3.4       29,376      8,640    3.4        29,376
Wheat              -        -           -         -        -            -        -        -           -       14,040    2.4       33,696    14,040    2.4         33,696
Grm.            18,725    0.5        9,363    18,725    0.5          9,363   12,960      0.5        6,480    10,800    0.9          9,720    23,760    0.7        16,200
Mlustard         3,745    0.3        1,124    35745    0.3           1.124       -        -           -        8,640    0.7         6,048     8,640    0.7         6,248
Grmoundouts      1,498    1.3         1,947     1,498    1.5         2,247      -         -           -        7,560    2.1       15,876      7,560    2.1        15,876
Vegetables         748    7.0         5,243       749    7.0         5,243      -         -           -        4,320   13.0       56,160      4,320   13.0        56,160
Sub-total      24,717                         24,717                        12.960                           54,000                         66,960
Perennial
Sugarcena          -                                                                                           2,160   70.0      151,200      2,160   70.0       151,200
Sub-total         -                              -                                                            2,160                          2,160
Total        93,625                         93,625                        23,760                          147,960                        171,720
Cropping
Intenaity 3/      85                             85                            22                              137                    ,       159
I1.  On-Par. Da-lopunat
A. Coastal Ares
Xharif
Local Paddy    26,560    1.6        45,696    28,560    1.7         48,552      -         _           _       15,504    3.2       34,109    15,504    2.2         34,109
HYV Paddy       11 424    1.8       20,563    11 424    2.0         22,848      -         -           -       24 480    3.2       78,336    24 480    3.2         78,336
Sub-total                                                                    39,9843
Rabi
PYV Paddy       17,136    2.3       39,413    17,136    2.5         42,840      -         -           -      16,320      3.4      35,488    16,320    3.4         55,488
Wheat              -        -           -         -        -           --                             -       2,448      2.2        5,386     2,448    2.2         5,386
Gre              2,446    0.5         1,224     2,448    0.5         1,224      -         -           -       4,896      0.8        3,917     4,896    0.8         3,917
Groundnut        2,836    1.2         3,427     2,856    1.2         3,427      -         _           _       4,488      1.9       8,527      4,488    1.9         8,527
Vag-tables         -        -          -          -                   -                   -                   1 224    11.0       13,464      1,224   11.0        13,464
Sub-total      2-2,T44                       -22,-440                          -                                                             9,3i 76
Total        62,424                         62,424                           -                            69,360                          69,360
Cropping
Intenaity 4/    153                             153                                                           170                             170
B. Hoo-Co.atal Area
Xbarif
Local Paddy      4,320    1.6         6,912     4,320    1.8         7,776      -         -           -       2,448      2.2        5,386     2,448    2.2         5,386
IYV Paddy        1,440    1.8         2,592     1,640    2.0         2,880      -         -           -       3,312      3.2      10,598      3,312    3.2        10,598
Hai.e              216    1.2           259       216    1.2           259      -         -           -         288      1.8          518       288    1.8           518
lagi               288    0.7           202       288    0.7           202      -         -           -          72     0.8            58        72    0.8            58
Pules              576    0.6           346       576    0.6           346      -         -           -         504     0.7          353        504    0.7           353
Groundnut          144    1.2           173       144    1.2           173      -         -           -         288      2.1          605       288    2.1           605
Vegetable.          72    7.0           504         72    7.0          504      -         -           -         144    13.0         1,872       144   13.0         1,872
Sub-total       77 &                                                                                                                         7,056  - 6
labi
I-V Paddy          864    2.0         1,728       864    2.2         1,901      -         -           -         576      3.4        1,958       576    3.4         1,958
Wheat              216    1.2           259       216    1.2           259       -        -           -         864      2.4        2,074       864    2.4         2,074
Crem             1,368    0.6           821     1,368    0.6           821      -         -           -       1,584     0.8        1,267      1,584    0.8         1,267
Woetard            288    0.4           115       288    0.4           115      -         -           -         504      0.7          353       504    0.7           353
Groundnut          144    1.4           202       144    1.4           202      -         -           -         576      2.1        1,210       576    2.1         1,210
Vegetsabl.         144    7.0         1,008       144    7.0         1,008       -        -           -         288    13.0         3,744       288   13.0         3,744
Sub-total       1TNTTM.-T-H
Total        10,080                         10,080                                                       11,448                           11,448
Cropping
Intenaity *2    140                             140                                                           159                             159
1/ Are  in ba; Yields in ton per hbe  and Production in ton.
T/ All crope ara grown under ranfed.
/   e" oln a total net CCA of 106,000 ha with and without the project.
T/  led on total not rCA of 40,800 ha in coastal ad 7200 h  it non-co-atal areas.



-63-
TABLE 11
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Incremental Crop Production and Value
('000 tons or Rd H)
Future       Future       Incremental
Present      Without      With         Production    Value 1/
Foodgrains                    Medium Irrigation Projects
Paddy                72.4         77.9       15/.9            80.0          92.0
Wheat                   -            -         33.7           33.7          55.6
Maize                  2.0          2.0         3.9            1.9           2.1
Ragi                   3.1          3.1         1.7           -1.4          -1.4
Pulses               12.4         12.4        19.4             7.0          17.9
Sub-total          89.9         95.4       216.6          121.2          166.2
Cash Crops
Groundnut             3.7           4.0       24.1            20.1          50.3
Oilseeds               1.1          1.1         6.0            4.9          16.6
Vegetables             5.2          5.2       84.2            79.0          51.4
Sugarcane              -            -        151.2           151.2          24.2
Foodgrains                       On-Farm Development
Paddy               116.9        126.8       185.9            59.1          68.0
Wheat                  0.3          0.3         7.5            7.2          11.9
Maize                  0.3          0.3         0.5            0.2           0.2
Ragi                   0.2          0.2         0.1           -0.1          -0.1
Pulses                2.4           2.4         5.5            3.1           7.9
Sub-total         120.1        130.0       199.5           69.5          87.9
Cash Crops
Groundnut             3.8           3.8       10.3             6.5          16.3
Oilseeds              0.1           0.1        0.4             0.3           1.0
Vegetables             1.5          1.5       19.1            17.6          11.4
loodgrains                     Total (MIP + OFD)
Paddy               189.3        204.7       343.8           139.1         160.0
Wheat                 0.3          0.3        41.2            40.9          67.5
Maize                  2.3          2.3         4.4            2.1           2.3
Ragi                  3.3           3.3        1.8            -1.5          -1.5
Pulses               14.8         14.8        24.9            10.1          25.8
Total             210.0        225.4       46              T7           147 r
Cash Crops
Groundnut              7.5          7.8       34.4            26.6          66.5
Oilseeds              1.2           1.2        6.4             5.2          17.6
Vegetables            6.7           6.7      103.3           96.6           62.8
Sugarcane              -            -        151.2           151.2          24.2
TOTAL                                                                   425.2
I/ Based on financial prices.



-64-
TABLE 12
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Summary of Financial and Economic Prices
1982                     1990/1995
CROPS (Rs/ton)               Financial   Economic         Financial   Economic
Paddy                           1150        1100            1570         1570
Wheat                           1650        1600            1750         1750
Maize                           1100         900            1150         1150
Ragi                            1000         940             990          990
Gram                            2900        2900            3260         3260
Pulses                          2560        2560            2880         2880
Groundnuts                      2500        2500            3670         3670
Mustard                         3380        3950            4200         4200
Vegetables/Potatoes              650         650             780          780
Sugarcane                        160         100             250          230
INPUTS (Rs/kg)
Nitrogen (N)                     4.4         4.0             5.4          4.8
Phosphate (P205)                 4.1         3.7             4.9          3.9
Potasium (K20)                   1.8         1.9             1.7          2.1
FYM/Campost (Rs/ton)            24.0        19.0            24.0         19.0
Draft Power (Rs/day)            12.0         9.0            12.0          9.0
Farm Labor                       3.4         2.7             3.4          2.7
Conversion Factors
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)             0.80
Construction Conversion Factor (CCF)         0.70
Skilled Labor                                0.80 of market wage
Unskilled Labor                              0.65 of market wage



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
CROP INPUTS DATA
Present              Season               Yield      By:   oduc       Seed        Labor       Bullock        N     P      K       FYM4      Chemicals
tTha         t  a         kg/ha       Man-Day      Pair-Day      -----kg/ha -----     t/ha         R/ha
PadAv; Tor-         Kharif-rainfed          1.3          2.6            75          112          24          10     5      1       1             -
Paddy, HYV          Kharif-rainfed          1.5          1.5            50          116          24          20      5     1       i            60
Maize                Kharif-rainfed         0.9          1.2            15           65          18           -     -      -       2            80
Ragi                Rharif-rainfed          0.7           -             10           62          15           -     -      -       -             _
Pulses               Rharif-rainfed         0.5          0.8            25           38          12           -     -      -       -             -
Groundaut            Kharif-rainfed         1.2          1.8           100           88          18          10    20      5       -             -
Gran                Rabi-rainfed            0.5          0.5            50           40          15           -     -      -       -             -
Mustard              Rabi-rainfed           0.3           -             10           50           17          -      -     -       -             _
Groundnut           Rabi-rainfed            1.3          2.0           100           92          18          10    20      5       -             -
Vegetables          Rabi-rainfed            7.0           -          1,700          120          18          25    10      5       2             -
Future Without
Project
Paddy, Loc.         Kharif-rainfed          1.4          2.8            75          113          24          15      5     1      1              -
Paddy, HYV          Kharif-rainfed          1.6          1.6            50          117          24          25      5     1      1             60
Maize                Kharif-rainfed         0.9          1.2            15           65           18          -      -     -      2             80
Ragi                 Iharif-rainfed         0.7           -             10           62           15          -      -     -      -              -
Pulses               Kharif-rainfed         0.5          0.8            25           38           12          -      -     -      -              -
Groundnut           Kharif-rainfed          1.2          1.8           100           88           18         10    20      5      -              -
Gram                 Rabi-rainfed           0.5          0.5            50           40          15           -      -     -      -              -
Mastard             Rabi-rainfed            0.3           -             10           50          17           -     -      -      -              -
Groundnut           Rabi-rainfed            1.5          2.3           100          100           18         10    20      5      -              -
Vegetables          Rabi-rainfed            7.0           -          1,700          120           18         25    10      5      2              -
Future With
Project
Paddy, Loc.         Rharif-rainfed          1.6          3.2            75          116          24          25      5     -      2             80
Paddy, Loc.         Kharif-irrigated        2.2          4.4            75          122          24          40    15      5      2            120
Paddy, HYV          Rharif-irrigated        3.2          3.2            50          128          26          60    30    15       3            180
Maize               Kharif-irrigated        1.8          2.3            15           73           18         45    20      5      3            100
Ragi                Rharif-rainfed          0.8           -             10           65           15         10      5     -      -              -
Pulses              Kharif-rainfed          0.6          0.9            25           40          12           5    10      -      -             30
Groundnut           Kharif-irrigated        1.9          3.0           100          105          21          25    40      -      -            170
Vegetables          Kharif-irrigated       13.0           -            0.5          170          20          75    45    20       4            210
Paddy, HYV          Rabi-irrigated          3.4          6.2            50          131          26          65    30    10       2            150
Wheat               Rabi-irrigated          2.4          2.4           100           82          20          55    25    15       -             80
Gran                Rabi-rainfed            0.5           0.8           50           40           15          -      -     -      -              -
Gram                Rabi-irrigated          0.9          1.3            50           45           15         20    25      5      -             30
Mustard              Rabi-irrigated         0.7            -            10           62           17         20    10      -      -             30             w
Groundnut           Rabi-irrigated          2.1          3.0           100          110           18         25    40    10       2            150
Vegetables          Rabi-irrigated         13.0           -          1,700          145           20         75    45    20        6           200
Sugarcane           Peren-irrigated        70.0           -          7,500          250          43         175    80    30       3            420



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
INDIVIDUAL CROP BUDGETS AT FINANCIAL PRICES
(Rupee per ha)
VALUE OF    GROSS                        DRAFT    FERTI-   OTHER    INTE-   TOTAL    NET
CROP            SEASON    X of CCA    YIELD    PRICE   BY-PROD         RETURN   SEEDS   LABOR   ANIMALS   LIZERS   COSTS    REST    COST    RETURN
PRESENT
Paddy Local    Xharif        64.0       1.30       1150      260         1755     158      381       288        66        70       24      986       769
Paddy HYV       Eharif        9.0       1.50       1150      150         1875     105      394       288       110       133       28     1059       816
Maize           Oharif        3.0       0.90       1100      120         1110       43     221       216         0       108       12      601       509
Ragi            Eharif        6.0       0.70       1000        0          700       23     211       180         0        21        4      438       262
Pulses          Kharif        7.0       0.50       2560      100         1380      150     129       144         0        21       14      458       922
Groundunts      Rharif        2.0       1.20       2500        0        3000      500      299       216       135        58       57     1264      1736
Grm             Rabi         25.0       0.50       2900       63         1513     250      136       180         0        28       23      617       895
Mustard         Rabi          5.0       0.30       3380        0         1014       68     170       204         0        22        7      471       543
Groundnuts      Rabi          2.0       1.30       2500        0         3250     680      313       216       135        67       72      1483     1767
FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT
Paddy Local    Kharif        64.0       1.40       1570      280         2478     158      384       288       109        72       28     1038      1440                 1
Paddy HYV       Kharif        9.0       1.60       1570      160        2672      105      398       288       164       136       33     1123      1549
Maize           Iharif        3.0       0.90       1150      120         1155       43     221       216         0       158       16      655       500
Ragi            Xharif        6.0       0.70        990        0          693      23      211       180         0        21        4      438       255
Pulses          Kharif        7.0       0.50       2880      100         1540     150      129       144         0        21       14      458      1082
Groundrmts      Kharif        2.0       1.20       3670        0         4404     500      299       216       162        59       59     1294      3110
Grma            Rabi         25.0       0.50       3260       63         1693     250      136       180         0        28       23      617      1075
Mustard         Rabi          5.0       0.30       4200        0         1260       68     170       204         0        22        7      471       789
Groundauts      Rabi          2.0       1.50       3670        0         5505     680      340       216       162        70       74     1542      3963
FUTURE WITH PROJECT
Paddy Local    gharif        31.0       2.20       1570      440        3894      158      415       288       302       235       57     1453      2441
Paddy HYV       Kharif       46.0       2.80       1570     280         4676      105      435       312       442      329       72      1695      2981
Maize           Kharif        2.0       1.80       1150      230        2300       43      248       216       354       224       51     1136      1164
Groundnmts      Xharif        4.0       1.90       3670        0        6973      680      357       252       334       260      104     1986      4987
Vegetables      Oharif        2.0      11.00        780        0        8580         6     578       240       667       396       87     1974      6606
Paddy HlV       Rabi          3.0       3.10       1570      620        5487      105      445       312       522       277      74      1735      3752
Wheat           Rabi         10.0       2.40       1750      456         4656     290      279       240       451       147       72     1479      3177-               r
Gran            Rabi          8.0       0.90       3260      163        3097      250      153       180       241        73      46       943      2154
Mustard         Rabi          7.0       0.70       4200        0         2940      68      211       204       159        64       24      729      2211                P
Grouudnuts      Rabi          5.0       2.00       3670        0        7340      680      374       216       351       289      108     2017      5323
Sugarcane       Rabi          1.0      70.00        230        0       16100    1725       850       516      1406       741     316      5554    10546
Vegetables      Mharif        2.0      11.00        780        0        8580         3     578       240       667       396      87      1971      6609
Paddy Local    Xharif         3.0       1.60       1570     320         2832      158      394       288       162       184       41     1228      1604
Ragi            Kharif        2.0       0.80        990        0          792       29     221       180        80        25       11      546       246
Pulses          Kharif        5.0       0.60       2880      113         1841     150      136       144        77        57       23       586     1254
Gram            Rabf         12.0       0.50       3260      100         1730     250      136       180         0        28       23      617      1113
180
Note: 5 contingencies on input cost included in 'other costs'.
Labor cost calculated at wage rate for family-labor.
Interest at 14.0% per annum on seeds, fertilizers and 'other costs'.



-67-
TABLE 15
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Financial Farm Budgets
(Re)
Gross    Hired    Other       Total      Net
Farm Model                      Time    Value    Labor    Inputs    Inputs    Value 1/
Medium Irrigation Projects
.5 ha farm                       P       1010       40        410        450      560
W      1350       40        420        460       890
W      3270       50        470        520      2750
1.5 ha farm                       P       3030      160        800        960     2070
~W     4050      170        820        990      3060
w      9190      320       2330       2650      6540
3.0 ha farm                       P       4680      340       1570       1910      2770
W1     6260      350       1640       1990      4270
w     17740      770       4490       5260    12480
5.0 ha farm                       P       7380      670       2460       3130     4250
Wg     9880      690       2580       3270      6610
W     27460    1330        6960       8290    19170
On-Farm Development
Coastal Areas:
Head Reach 1.0 ha farm             P      3580      160       1110       1270      2310
W       5150     180       1950       2130      3020
W      7680      230       2570       2980      4700
Tail Reach 1.0 ha farm             P      2020       70        650        720      1300
W      2900       80        730        810      2090
W      7680      230       2570       2980      4700
Non-Coastal Areas:
Head Reach. 1.0 ha farm            P      3250      130       1100       1230      2010
;W     4310      140       1580       1690      2620
w      5800      160       1700       1850      3940
Tail Reach 1.0 ha farm             P      2200       80        790        870      1330
Wq     2700       80        820        900      1800
w      5800      150       1700       1860      3940
1/ Net return to family labor and farm capital investment before tax
and water charge payments.
Note: P - Present; W - Future Without Project; W - Future With Project



-68-
TABLE 16a
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Farm Budgets and Prolect Rent at Full Development
(Rs)
Medium Irrigation Projects
0.5 ha Farm    1.5 ha Farm    3.0 ha Farm    5.0 ha Farm
Farm Budget                        W      W          W    W         W      W       W       W
Gross Value of Production         1350   3720      4050  9190      6260 17740    9880  27460
Total Labor Cost                   190    280       560   780       870  1500    1370   2320
Other Inputs                       420    470       820  2330      1640  4490    2580   6960
Land Tax and Water Charges          10      40       30   130         60   260      100    440
Total Costs                      620    790      1410  3240      2570  6250    4050   9720
Net Value of Production            730   2930      2640  5950      3690 11490    5830  17740
Reward to Family Labor             150    230       390   460       520   730      680    990
Net Farm Family Income             880   3160      3030  6410      4210 12220    6510  18730
Prolect Rent
Net Return to Farm                 730   2930      2640  5950      3690 11490    5830  17740
+ (Tax and Water charges)           10      40       30   130        60   260       100    440
Net Return before Tax              740   2970      2670  6080      3750 11750    5930  18180
- Risk Equivalent 1/               540    560      1380  1250      1880  2310    2570   2750
- Management Fee (10%)2/            70    290       260   600       370  1150      580   1770
Implicit Land Rent                 130   2120      1030  4230      1500  8290    2780  13660
Project Rent (Rs/ha)3/               3160             2130             2260           2180
1/ Risk Equivalent - Expected gross value of production multiplied by farmers'
risk aversion factor multiplied by coefficient of variation of yields.
The risk aversion factor was assumed as 2.0 for 0.5 ha farms, 1.7 for
1.5 ha farms, 1.5 for 3.0 ha farms and 1.3 for 5.0 ha in the without
project situation. In the with project situation the factor was assumed
to be 1.7 for 0.5 ha farm, 1.5 for 1.5 ha farm, 1.3 for 3 ha farm and
1.0 for 5.0 ha farm.   The coefficient of yield variation was assumed
as 20% without project and 10% with project.
2/  Premium for management and entrepeneurial skills assumed as 10% of net
return to the farms.
3/  Project rent is the incremental land rent due to the project.
Note: P - Present; W- Future Without Project; W - Future With Project



-69-
TABLE 16b
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Farm Budgets and Project Rent at Full Development
(Rs)
On-Farm Development
Coastal Areas                     Non-Coastal Areas
1.0 ha Farm        1.0 ha Farm         1.0 ha Farm        1.0 ha Farm
iW      W          iW                 W              W             W
Farm Budget
Gross Value of Production        5150    7680       2900      7680       4310    5800       2700    5800
Total Labor Cost                   700     780       380       780        540      560       220      560
Other Inputs                      1950    2570       730      2570       1550    1700        820    1700
Land Tax and Water Charges          90      90        40        90         90       90         30      90
Total Costs                    2740    3440       1150      3440      2180    2350        1070    2350
Net Value of Production           2410    4240      1750      4240       2130    3450       1630    3450
Reward to Family Labor             520     550       300       550        400      400       140      400
Net Farm Family Income           2930    4          2050      49        3        TTW  Wm5  0
Project Rent
Net Return to Farm                2410    4240      1750      4240       2130    3450       1630    3450
+ (Tax and Water charges)           90      90        40        90         90       90         30      90
Net Return before Tax             2500    4330      1790      4330       2220    3540       1660    3540
- Risk Equivalent 1/              930    1310       1100      1310        780     990        990    1130
- Management Fee (10%) 2/          520     770       290       770        430      580        270     580
Implicit Land Rent               1050    2250        400      2250       1010    1970        400    1830
Project Rent (Rs/ha)3/                1200               1850                960                 1430
1/ Risk Equivalent -- Expected gross value of production multiplied by farmers'
risk aversion factor multiplied by coefficient of variation of yields.
The risk aversion factor was assumed as 2.0 for 0.5 ha farms, 1.7 for
1.5 ha farms, 1.5 for 3.0 ha farms and 1.3 for 5.0 ha in the without
project situation. In the with project situation the factor was assumed
to be 1.7 for 0.5 ha farm, 1.5 for 1.5 ha farm, 1.3 for 3 ha farm and
1.0 for 5.0 ha f;arm.   The coefficient of yield variation was assumed
as 20X without project and lOZ with project.
2/  Premium for management and entrepeneurial skills assumed as 10% of net
return to the farms.
3/ Project rent is the incremental land rent due to the project.
Note: P - Present; W - Future Without Project; W - Future With Project



-70-
TABLE 17a
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Prolect Rent and Cost Recovery 1/
Medium Irrigation Prolects
Farm Size   0.5 ha       1.5 ha       3.0 ha      5.0 ha    Average 2/
-------  Rs  -----------------                  (Rs/ha)
Project Rent
Gross Value of Production             8,200       21,960       49,060       75,120       15,580
Production Costs 3/                   2,100        7,650       23,500       30,610        5,310
Net Income                            6,100       14,310       25,560       44,510       10,270
- Less Management Fee (10%)             820        1,430        2,600        4,450        1,030
- Less Risk Equivalent                   90        1.600        3,380        5,350        1,030
Project Rent                          5,190       11,280       19,580       34,710        8,210
Project Rent as % of Net Income         85%         79Z           77%          78%          79%
Cost Recovery
Direct:  Water Charge                 1,100        2,900        6,580       10,970        1,790
(per net CCA) 4/
Indirect:  Other Agric. Taxes 5/          -          330        1,900        3,960          410
Total Cost Recovery                   1,100        3,230        8,480       14,930        2,200
Rent Recovery as x of ProJect Rent    21%            29%          43%          43%          27%
Capital Costs                                                                             9,690
Operation and Maintenance Cost                                                              340
Total Public Sector Outlays                                                              10,030
Cost Recovery as a Z of Project Cost                                                        22%
1/ Expressed in incremental values over lifetime of a typical MIP (HariharJore)
discounted to present values at 12% interest over 30 years.
2/ Weighted by area distribution of land holdings.
31 Includes cost of labor and depreciation of capital.
4/ Assumes gradual increase in water charges from Rs 68/ha at present
to Rs 740/ha at full development.
5/ Marketable surplus is assumed at 50% for the 1.5 ha farms; 70% for the
3.0 ha and 5.0 ha farms of the incremental gross value of production.



-71-
TABLE 17b
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Estimated Project Rent and Cost Recovery 1/
OFD Areas
Tail-End Reaches          Tail-End Reaches
in Coastal Areas        in Non-Coastal Areas
----------------- Rs/ha -------------------
Project Rent
Gross Value of Production                   23,840                    15,900
Production Costs 2/                         11,320                     6,280
Net Farm Income                             12,520                     9,620
- Less Management Fee                        2,390                     1,550
- Less Risk Equivalent                       1,050                       700
Project Rent                                 9,080                     7,370
Project Rent as % of Net Income               73%                       77%
Cost Recovery
Direct:  Water Charge (per net CCA)          1,350                     1,100
Indirect:  Agricultural Sales Tax              490                       410
Total Cost Recovery                          1,840                     1,510
Rent Recovery as % of Project Rent            20%                       21%
Costs
Irrigation Infrastructure Improvements3/   2,180                       2,320
Incremental 0 & M Costs                        450                       450
Total Public Sector Outlays                  2,630                     2,770
Cost Recovery as a % of Project Cost          70%                       55%
1/ Expressed in incremental values discounted over 30 years at 12% interest.
2/ Includes cost of labor and depreciation of capital.
3/ Includes the cost of land consolidation.



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Benefits
(RsM)
Fiscal Year  1        2        3        4        5        6       7        8        9       10       11        12       13-30
Model
1. Hariharjore Medium Irrigation Project
Incremental Benefits
Net Agricultural Benefits              -        -                            3.54    8.85   16.42   21.05   24.61    25.95   26.67           26.67
Net Benefits from Land
Reclamation                                                                -      0.90    2.27    3.29    4.02        4.36    4.54        4.54
Sub-total                     -        -       -        -        -       3.54    9.75   18.69   24.34   28.63    30.31   31.21           31.21
Investment Costs
Irrigation Infrastructure        1.88    7.91   10.18   24.00   32.48   26.83   24.00  15.53            -        -         -        -
Land Acquisition                  -        -        -        -      0.18    0.63    1.42   1.42         1.42    1.42      1.42    1.42        1.42
Sub-total                    1.88    7.91   10.18   24.00   32.66   27.46   25.42  16.95           1.42    1.42       1.42    1.42        1.42
Operation and Maintenance          -        -        -        -       -        -       0.18   0.39       0.60    0.60      0.60    0.60        0.60
Net Incremetal Benefits          -1.88   -7.91  -10.18  -24.00  -32.66  -23.92  -15.86   1.34    22.31   26.61    28.29   29.19               29.19
ERR = 14.4%
2. On-Farm Development Works (Coastal Areas)
Incremental Benefits               -       2.00    8.40   17.50   28.20   37.70   43.20  45.20    47.40   48.10    48.10   48.10              48.10
Investment Costs                 13.97   13.97   13.97   13.97        -        -        -      -         -        -         -        -          -
Incremental O&M Costs              -        -       0.20    0.41    0.61    0.82    0.82   0.82         0.82    0.82       0.82    0.82        0.82
Net Incremental Benefits        -13.97  -11.97   -5.78    3.12   27.59   36.88   42.38  44.38    46.58   47.28    47.28   47.28               47.28          H
ERR - 48.4%



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Sensitivity Tests for MIPs
Sensitivity Tests
Delay in      Lack of       Paddy    Assumptions as Under
Expected  Base    Increased Rabi    Delay in Land                  Construction    Attention   Cropping    Orissa I Project
Appraisal   Projectl/ Case2/ Water Supply 3/        Reclamation   Land Not   of Watercourses   to Block    Pattern        Crop       Project
Project Name      Date      Status    ERR    ( + 102 ) (+ 30X)       by 3 Years   Reclaimed      by 3 Years    Development4/ in R8bi5/ Yields         Costs
Daha            August  77    (2)       8.5       8.8      9.5            7.7         4.7             6.3            3.4        5.9          7.8         11.0
Sunei           August  77    (3)      16.1      17.1    14.5           15.2         10.7            11.9           8.7        11.8         14.8         18.6
Ramiala         August  77    (2)      19.1      19.8    19.8           15.5          5.5            14.1           12.1       14.9         18.0         23.1
Kuandria        January  79   (2)       8.5       8.9      9.5            -            -               -             3.3        5.9          7.8         10.7
Dumerdahal      January  79   (1)      14.7      15.2    16.3           13.7         11.7            10.9            8.4       10.9         13.6         19.1
Gohira          September  79 (2)      19.0      19.6    21.0           14.2        (-1.9)           13.6           11.6       14.5         17.8         21.6
Remal           July -79       (3)      7.8       8.0      8.5           6.8          1.5             5.7            2.3        6.1          7.3         10.3
Pillasalki      February '80  (2)      10.4      10.8    11.6            9.0          4.0             7.8            5.1        7.5          9.6         13.1
Sarafgarh       February  80  (3)      12.8      13.2    14.0           11.3          7.2             9.6            7.2        9.8         12.0         15.0
Jharbandh       February  80  (2)      17.3      17.7    18.6           15.4         11.7            12.4            9.9       14.4         16.5        20.2
Talsara         February  80  (2)      18.3      18.9    20.0           17.0         14.8            13.4           11.3       14.4         17.2         21.4
Hariharjore     January  81   (4)      14.4      15.0    16.2            13.7        12.4             9.9            6.9       10.4         13.1         14.6
Kanjhari        March  81      (3)     11.0       11.4    12.3           9.4          4.0             7.9            5.0        8.1         10.2         11.2    1
Kansbahal       January  82   (4)      12.0       12.7    13.9           11.2         9.1             8.4            5.5        7.8         10.7         12.0   -_
Bankabal        January  82   (4)      16.3      16.8    17.7            15.3        13.4            11.2            8.5       13.0         15.3         16.3
Upper Jonk      July  82       (4)     23.9      24.9    26.8            19.9        13.8            15.4           13.4       17.7         22.1         23.9
1/ Indicates expected project status by October 1983.  (1) Fully operational; (2) Operational without 5 ha block watercourses; (3) Partially
operational without spillway and 5 ha watercourses; (4) Construction in progress.
2/ Assumes 60% canal conveyance efficiency during the rabi season.
3/ Larger reservoir size and/or higher efficiency (conveyance and/or operational) of the distribution systew. Also equivalent to increases
in rabi irrigated area given irrigation intensity.
4/ Tested by reducing the incremental benefits to the level realized in traditionally designed irrigation projects (a reduction of about
45X). The project cost van, in this case, also reduced (by 5%) to reflect the lower design standards.
5/ Irrigation water used only for growing paddy.
Note: Harbhangi omitted due to lack of data.
tIs



-74-
ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Proposed R&D Topics
1.       R&D work plans and schedules would be developed by GOO.  However,
several topics are particularly relevant to implementation of MIPs under
the proposed project--watercourse improvement and canal lining, improved
canal control and regulation technology, improved management information
and monitoring, and farmer organization. In addition, specific pilot
activities are already underway at the Hirakud major project which may
provide guidance for improving performance and crop diversification under
conditions similar to MIPs; support for such specific activities under the
project R&D component may be justified. Major topics for consideration
under the R&D component are summarized as follows.
2.       Watercourse Improvement and Canal Lining.  Various options for
watercourse improvement would be tried and evaluated, such as buried PVC
pipelines (particularly in areas with steeper gradients), and open channel
lining using extruded concrete channel cross sections, plastic sheet,
brick or stone masonery, or precast concrete slabs. These alternatives
would also be tested for minors and subminors where appropriate. In
addition, various types of lining would also be tested and evaluated for
larger channels. Improved watercourse outlets and turnouts such as small
plate modules, APMs, and precast circular turnouts would be installed and
evaluated (Chart 24083). The R&D Cell would also explore possibilities
of applying Computer Aided Design techniques to help improve the design of
watercourses (and larger canals) for MIPs.
3.       Improved Canal Control and Regulation Technology.  Modern
automatic, hydromechanical canal control and regulation equipment would be
installed as a canal regulation pilot project in one or several selected
MIPs, and evaluated in conjunction with efforts to improve management.
One simple installation to be tested would be an automatic, high-head
downstream controlled gate for MIP headworks, combined with a modular
distributor (Chart 24084). This installation would enable easy, rapid and
precise control of water flows into the main canal, which is necessary for
efficient operation to closely match water supplied with demand and avoid
waste. Similar equipment for canal regulation and offtakes would be
tested. The standard practice at present is to align larger canals along
the contours, so use of such equipment for partial or full downstream



-75-
ANNEX 1
Page 2
control on the primary canals would require relatively little alteration
in major civil works.
4.       Management Information and Monitoring Study.  A major problem in
Orissa I has been lack of systematic and readily available and timely data
on MIP construction progress, costs and operation. Under the R&D com-
ponent, a study would be undertaken to develop an improved management
information and monitoring system for project MIPs. Similarly, up-to-date
and detailed data on operation of MIPs, which is important for better MIP
management, is generally not available. The management information study
would also analyze data reporting and needs for MIPs operations. The
study would in addition consider management information procedures and
practices which would make the best possible use of improved MIP com-
munications to be provided under the project.
5.       Farmer Organization.  Development of procedures and methods to
establish effective farmer Water User Associations (WUAs) at MIPs would be
an important element in efforts to raise MIP operational efficiencies.
The studies, research and experimentation necessary to promote farmer WUAs
would be undertaken by the R&D Cell and supported under the R&D component.
The first studies in India under a Bank-financed irrigation project
related to establishment of WUAs have recently been undertaken by the
Indian Institute of Management-Bangalore for the Karnataka Tank Irrigation
Project (Cr. 788-IN); these studies have begun to yield useful results,
and the R&D Cell would seek guidance from those and other studies in
developing its program to establish effective WUAs.
6.       Water Management Pilot Project.  A Water Management Pilot Project
covering about 1,000 ha is presently under way on-Distributary Number 6 of
the Kandarapara Branch Canal in the old Mahanadi Delta area, financed
under the Mahanadi Barrages Project (Cr. 1078-IN). Results from that
Pilot Project, while preliminary, have so far been very useful in provid-
ing guidance on technical and management options for improving irrigation
performance in an old, established irrigation system which traditionally
irrigates mainly rice, particularly regarding facilities and operation to
enable and promote crop diversification. The Hirakud Irrigation Project
is a more recent project which has natural conditions similar to many
MIPs. The predominant crop is rice, and the necessary facilities and
water control are lacking at Hirakud to support crop diversification.
Several water management pilot activities sponsored by both ID and CAD are
already underway at Hirakud.  If beneficial, additional support could be
provided through the R&D component of Orissa II. Such a pilot effort
would be organized and managed following the pattern already established
for the Mahanadi Water Management Pilot Project with a local Project-level
Coordinating Committee comprising relevant staff from ID, agricultural
extension, CAD, land consolidation, land revenue and others as needed;
policy-level coordination would rest with the same State-level Committee
which coordinates the ongoing Mahanadi Water Management Pilot Project,
under the chairmanship of the CAD commissioner.



-76-
ANNEX 2
Page I
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Main Assumptions for Economic and Financial Analysis
Prices and Conversion Factors
1.        General.  The economic prices of major traded agricultural outputs
(at farm gate) were derived from the IBRD projected average 1990/95 world
market prices expressed in 1982 currency value with appropriate adjustments
for freight, handling and processing. Non-traded foodgrains and other
non-traded goods and services were brought to a common basis with the traded
goods and services through the use of conversion factors (explained in the
following paras). A standard exchange rate of US$1 to Rs 9.50 was used to
convert prices expressed in US dollars to local currency values. The assump-
tions used to derive the estimates are described below.
2.        Standard Conversion Factor (SCF).  For economic analysis, the costs
and benefits of the project have been evaluated at world market prices in
order to measure correctly India's net economic benefits from the project.
This requires certain adjustment since many items are not traded on the world
market and others are affected by tariffs and trade restrictions. In order to
make them comparable, a SCF is applied to the price of non-traded goods. In
the absence of trade restrictions, the SCF can be estimated by using the
following formula:
SCF  =         X + M
X + Sx + M + Tm
where:  X  = export value (f.o.b.);
M = import value (c.i.f.);
Mx = subsidies on exports;
m = taxes and duties on imports.
For the period since 1970, this calculation gives a SCF of 0.86. However,
since this estimate does not take into consideration quantitative restric-
tions on trade, it provides only an upper limit for the SCF. The Indian
Planning Commission recommends for the evaluation of industrial projects, the
use of conversion factors for foreign exchange and for untraded goods that



-77-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
implicitly give a SCF of about 0.75.  Because of the approximate nature of
this estimate, a SCF of 0.8 has been used in the economic analysis. Specific
conversion factors have been calculated for construction costs and non-traded
foodgrains.
3.        Construction Conversion Factor (CCF).  Project works would be
constructed using a mixture of equipment, materials, and skilled and
unskilled labor in the proportions shown below:
(a)  Traded Component:  This component includes capital-intensive
works which require imported materials. Hence the conversion
factor of 1.00 has been used and it is estimated that about
6% the construction costs fall under this category.
(b)  Non-Traded Component:  This component includes works that
require skilled labor and locally manufactured materials.
The SCF of 0.80 has been used as the conversion factor for
these works which include about 26% of construction costs.
(c)  Unskilled Labor:  A ratio of economic to financial wages equal
to that assumed for agricultural labor (65%) has been assumed
for unskilled construction labor. It is estimated that unskilled
labor constitutes about 68% of the construction costs.
The weighted average of these conversion factors would be as follows:
Conversion Factor          Weight
Traded Items                        1.00                  0.06
Non-Traded Items                    0.80                  0.26
Unskilled Labor                     0.65                  0.68
Construction Costs
(weighted average)                0.71                   1.00
Thus a CCF of 0.70 has been adopted for converting the cost of construction
works from financial to economic prices.
4.        Foodgrain Conversion Factor (FCF).  The economic prices for traded
commodities such as rice, wheat, oilseeds and sugarcane were derived by using
their border prices in US$ according to IBRD commodity projections and con-
verting it to local currency values at the standard exchange rate. The
domestic cost components (such as local transport, handling and marketing
charges) were adjusted by a SCF of 0.80. The economic prices for non-traded
foodgrains (maize, pulses and gram were assumed to be non-traded) were



ANNEX 2
Page 3
derived by applying a FCF I to their projected financial prices. The recent
sharp downward revisions of IBRD agricultural commodity price forecasts have
brought the world market price of wheat and rice close to parity with the
domestic market prices in India. As a result a FCF of 1.0 has been used in
the economic analysis.
5.        Prices of Agricultural Inputs.  Fertilizers have been valued at the
projected world market price. Pesticides and insecticides have been assumed
to be traded to make allowance for taxes and subsidies and the cost of tran-
sport and marketing; a conversion factor of 0.95 has been applied to the
financial prices. The economic price of seed and miscellaneous charges has
been assumed to approximate to their financial price. The economic price of
farm power requirements (bullock labor) for one pair of bullocks with an
operator was derived from the daily rental rate adjusted by the SCF. A
summary of economic and financial prices is presented in Table 1.
Labor Analysis
6.      General.  Among the states of India, Orissa has the largest percent-
age of population living in rural areas (88%). About 82% of the rural labor
force depends on agriculture, varying from 81% in the coastal districts to
84% in the inland districts. Non-farm occupations form only a minor source
of incomes to the population in the rural areas. Among them them are rural
industry and services which account for 3.4% and 6.4% of the rural workers,
respectively. Services offer employment to 7.4% of rural workers in the
coastal regions and to 5.6% in the inland regions. This notable difference
can mainly be explained by the increased agricultural production resulting
from irrigation in the coastal area.
7.      The average size per capita holding in Orissa is 0.25 ha.  About 30%
of the total rural work force consists of landless agricultural laborers. A
majority of cultivators are owner cultivators, varying from about 48% of the
rural working population in coastal districts to about 56% in the inland
districts. Average farm size in Orissa is 1.6 ha, varying from an average of
1.1 ha in the coastal districts and 2.3 ha in the inland districts. However,
more than 50% of the households have less than 1 ha of irrigated land in
coastal districts and 2 ha in inland districts. At present, an average sized
family (about 5.8 persons) requires approximately 2.0 ha of unirrigated land
or 1.0 ha of irrigated land to meet basic subsistence needs. Consequently,
it can be concluded that a large number of farm households have to rely on
wage employment for a major part of their income.
1/ Estimated as a ratio of wheat and rice production valued at economic
prices to wheat and rice production valued at average domestic market
prices.



-79-
ANNEX 2
Page 4
8.      Because of relatively high un- and underemployment in the State,
current wage levels probably have overstated the opportunity cost of farm
labor and construction labor. Thus, the opportunity cost of labor has been
derived from the hypothetical "S-shaped" supply curve. The assumptions
behind the curve are discussed below (para 11).
9.      Labor Supply.  Since the components of the project are located in
different areas in the State, the labor supply is not easily identified.
Instead, based on the average cultivable area per agricultural worker for the
whole State of 1.05 ha (1981), farm labor availability at present is roughly
estimated at 8210 persons for a cultivated area of 10,000 ha. The estimates
of labor supply have been made using an average of 250 days per annum per
worker. This allows for less than a full day work for the young and old who
are included in the labor force estimate and also for people working long
hours during peak months of agricultural activities (the peak monthly labor
supply is higher than the average for the year).
10.     Labor Demand.  The labor requirements in the MIP areas would increase
from about 110 man-days per ha of cultivated area to about 150 man-days per
ha of irrigated area at full development, an increment of 40 man-days per ha.
On average 30% of the MIP areas are presently covered by scrub vegetation and
would be converted to irrigated agriculture; the increment in labor demand on
these areas would be equal to about 150 man-days per ha. The labor require-
ments in areas covered by CAD works are expected to increase only marginally
from 170 man-days per ha at present to about 200 man-days at full develop-
ment. In addition, the project would result in a substantial rise in
agricultural income and hence generate additional income and employment in
the non-farm sector. Experience from similar areas in Asia indicates that an
increase in agricultural production of Rs 25,000-30,000 would generate one
man-year of employment in the local non-farm sector such as marketing,
processing and transport. As a result of irrigation, the gross value of
production of the typical 10,000 ha MIP would increase by some Rs 42 M, whch
could increase non-farm employment on the order of 1,500 man-years.
11.     Opportunity Cost of Labor.  Scarcity of detailed data on farm income
levels, off-farm employment opportunities and the profile of agricultural
labor force makes the evaluation of shadow wage rates for farm labor fairly
subjective. Theoretically, it is assumed that the relationship between the
quantity and opportunity cost of labor can be approximated by an S-shaped
curve. The marginal opportunity cost of farm labor is positive at all levels
of demand and increases when more labor is absorbed into field work. Thus,
the increase in opportunity costs is initially slow, reflecting scarcity of
alternative productive employment, with the rate of increase growing as labor
becomes more fully utilized. At employment levels above the maximum labor
availability, the opportunity cost would increase at a slower rate since the
high wage rate would attract a large number of migrants. In practice, it is
reasonable to approximate this theoretical "S-shaped" curve by three straight
segments based on the following assumptions:



-80-
ANNEX 2
Page5
(a) At minimum employment levels, the marginal cost would be the
value of additional consumption needed for family members to
undertake field work (Rs 0.60 per man-day) 1/, plus the value
of foregone activities such as fishing, home improvement
(Rs 0.80 per man-day);
(b) When the monthly farm labor requirements exceed the off-peak family
labor supply (taken as 60% of the full supply), the marginal cost
would be the slack market wage rate (Rs 4.00 per man-day);
(c) At the peak level of employment, the marginal cost would be equal
to the maximum market rate (Rs 6.00 per man-day); and
(d) When the employment is larger than the estimated supply, the wage
rate is assumed to be Rs 6.00 per man-day which should be adequate
to attract migrant labor.
12.     For medium and minor irrigation projects, farm labor is shadow priced
by taking the average of the monthly opportunity cost, which is estimated at
Rs 3.40 in financial prices. For economic analysis, the SCF is applied to
the financial opportunity cost, which gives an average shadow wage rate for
farm labor of Rs 2.70 per man-day.
13.     Construction Labor.  The construction of the MIP's is carried out by
labor-intensive methods. The labor content in contracts as experienced under
Orissa I varies from structures (40%) and dam construction (50%) to building
of irrigation distribution systems (95%). The main source of supply of
construction labor for these small projects is landless agricultural laborers
and small farmers. Thus, it has been assumed that the opportunity cost of
unskilled construction labor would be equal to the opportunity cost of labor
in agriculture.
1/ For India, it has been estimated that an adult male who is not doing any
productive work consumes 1,830 kcal/day. For each hour of manual work,
his calorie requirements increase is 155 kcal/hour. Thus, for a full
eight hour working day, he consumes 3,070 kcal. At a financial price of
rice 1.742 Rs/kg and the caloric value of rice of 3,6000 kcal/kg, the
incremental rice consumption when he starts to work is 0.043 kg/hour or
0.344 kg/day. The cost of this consumption is Rs 0.58 per day.



-81-
ANNEX 2
Page 6
Agricultural Benefits
14.     Present Situation.  Rice is the main crop in Orissa and accounts for
about 90% of the area cropped in coastal areas and about 70% inland. Present
yields of 1.3t/ha in rainfed and 1.8t/ha in irrigated areas are significantly
below potential. Farming is limited predominantly to the monsoon season and
remains largely subsistent.   Assessment of yields, input levels and relative
profitability of crops was based on (i) farm surveys in the project area,
(ii) yield statistics, and (iii) direct information in the field. About
one-third of the MIP command area is presently not utilized for crop produc-
tion.
15.     Future Without Project.  No substantial changes from the present
situation were assumed in the "future without project" cropping pattern.
Yields "without" project based on present agricultural practices were in some
instances adjusted upward to take account of past productivity trends.
16.     Incremental Benefits.  Incremental benefits from agricultural produc-
tion in the kharif season are based on yields and cropping patterns that are
identical for all NIP's. In the areas presently cultivated the incremental
benefits are estimated at about Rs/ha 1,600 at full development, i.e. in the
fifth year after commissioning a particular part of the distribution system.
In the areas that are presently not utilized (scrub vegetation) and have zero
opportunity cost, the incremental value of agricultural production was
assumed equal to the full benefits in the situation with project estimated
at about Rs/ha 3,000 at full development. In the rabi season agricultural
production is assumed to be entirely dependent on the amount of reservoir
water available for the MIP commands. There is no inflow into the reservoir
during the rabi season (November-May). Given the reservoir characteristics,
the irrigation system's conveyance efficiency (60% from reservoir down to the
5 ha outlet), the size of command areas and the irrigation water requirements
the net availability of water adjusted for evaporation losses from the reser-
voir was calculated at the 5 ha outlet. The water availability ranges from
1,740 m3/ha to about 4,500 m3/ha for the various MIPs. From the water
requirements for a typical irrigated MIP, the amount of rabi area is
estimated based on the reservoir stoage available on average. The assump-
tions on yields and cropping patterns are then used for estimation of
incremental agricultural benefits for each MIP for the presently cultivated
areas. Similarly for kharif benefits, the benefits of the with project
situation were adjusted for relative water availability. The incremental
rabi benefits range from Rs 78/ha to about Rs 2,000 ha. The conversion value
of idle land to irrigated agriculture in the rabi season ranges from Rs
1,100/ha to Rs 3,000/ha. The assumptions on yields and cropping patterns
for the "present", the "future without" and "with" project situations both
for the MIP and CAD project areas are shown in Table 10 of the Main Volume.



-82-
ANNEX 2
Page 7
17.     The transition of agriculture from the "present" to the "future with"
project situation was based on the following assumptions:
(a) Build-up of Benefits for MIPs. A five-year build-up period for
present to future improved cropping practices has been assumed for
areas presently cultivated. An eight-year build-up period has been
assumed for areas reclaimed under the project. For simplicity, the
same period has been taken for the build-up of crop yields and
inputs. The assumed pattern after the start of irrigation is
presented below.
(b) Build-up of Benefits for CAD Works. Land consolidation immediately
followed by improvements of the minor distribution network results
in more efficient and equitable water distribution; i.e. increases
in irrigation intensity particlarly in the rabi season. While the
increase in irrigation intensity is rather fast, yields, inputs and
changes in agricultural practices respond slower. Consequently, two
separate build-up rates have been assumed and are shown below:
Benefit Build-up Rates
Year
1     2     3      4     5      6     7      8
Medium Irrigation Project:
Cultivated areas             40    60    85    92   100   100   100   100
Scrub/waste areas            20    35    50    70    85    93    95   100
Command Area Development
Yield, Inputs, Economic    20    50    70    85    95   100   100   100
Prices
Cropping Intensities         45    65    85   100   100   100   100   100
Cost
18.     Capital Costs - MIPs.  The capital costs including sunk costs for
each MIP were expressed in September 1982 prices. They were adjusted by the
CCF with the sunk cost brought to the September 1982 price level by the
Indian Wholesale Price Index. The cost of land acquisition were excluded
from the stream. The cost to completion also excluded price contingencies.
19.     Capitdl Costs - CAD.  The estimated cost of CAD activities in both
the coastal and non-coastal areas is estimated at Rs/ha 1475 and Rs/ha 1785
after adjustments by the CCF. The estimates include the cost of land con-
solidation, OFD and upstream canal (minor and distributary level) improve-
ments. They include physical contingencies of 20% but exclude price contin-
gencies.



-83-
ANNEX 2
Page 8
20.     Land Acquisition.  The economic costs of land acquisition is the
value of production foregone from land submerged by the MIP reservoirs (11%
of CCA) and from the land lost to the construction of the irrigation dis-
tribution systems (3% of CCA). The value of production in the situation
'without project" of Rs/ha 1840 in cultivated areas was used, but for each
MIP this value has been adjusted downward to reflect the relative share of
land not cultivated. The net return foregone each year was treated as a
recurrent project cost.
21.     Operation and Maintenance Costs.  At present, the financial costs
of O&M in completed irrigation projects in Orissa average about Rs 30 per ha.
However, it is estimated that about Rs 90-100 per ha would be required to
assure proper O&M of the distribution system. Since O&M involves mainly
employment of unskilled or semi-skilled labor, a conversion factor of 0.65
was used.
22.     The Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  Based on the above assumptions,
the ERR and the Net Present Value (NPV) were estimated for the entire port-
folio of 18 MIPs and for the CAD works in the coastal and non-coastal area.
The costs and benefit streams were discounted at 12% interest over 30 years
and the results are summarized below and detailed in Table 18:
ERR          NVP at 12%
Number          (%)        (RsM)  (Rs/ha)
Medium Irrigation Projects:
1.  Completed                        1 MIP        14.7         8.5    3040
2.  Partially Operational           11 MIPs       13.4        83.4    1530
3.  Starting Construction            6 MIPs       16.0        70.1    1680
Command Area Development
1.  Coastal                       40,800 ha      48.4        165.3    4050
2.  Non-coastal                    7,200 ha      47.1         33.1    4600
23.     The weighted average ERR for 18 ongoing MIPs plus six new MIPs is
about 14%. ERR estimates for the MIPs are lower than expected at appraisal
of Orissa I (18%). The reason for the differences are: (a) longer than
expected implementation period and particularly delays in construction of the
minor distribution system; (b) decrease in (Bank projections for) agricul-
tural commodity prices; and (c) higher construction costs (35%). These and
other factors are further analyzed below. The high ERR for CAD works
reflects their short gestation period and the large productivity gains from
land consolidation and relatively low cost improvements of existing irriga-
tion infrastructure. The weighted average ERR for the overall project is
19%.



-84-
ANNEX 2
Page 9
24.     Sensitivity Analysis.  The main assumptions in the analysis of MIPs
have been tested and are summarized in Table 19. The results of the sen-
sitivity tests have important implication with respect to the priorities and
major objectives of the project. They are briefly discussed below:
(a)  Delays in Construction:  The technical reasons for delays in
construction are described in the main text. The impact on
economic viability is highly significant and a delay by 3 years
results in a loss in terms of NPV of about Rs 1200 per ha.
(b) Inadequate MIP Completion: The completion of only the major canals
with inadequate attention to watercourses, control structures, and
drains below the distributory level would result in a reduction of
the average ERR to about 7%. The penalty in terms of NPV would
equal about Rs 2400 per ha. The same penalty would result if the
otherwise adequate distribution system is not maintained properly.
(c) Construction Cost Increases: The difference in the ERR for partially
completed MIPs (13.4%) and MIPs under construction (16.0%) reflects
to a large extent differences in costs. While in the former all
major structures are completed and the costs to completion are small,
in the latter construction has just started and the risk of cost
overruns is substantially larger.
(d)  Unutilized Land:  About one-third of the HIP command area is waste
land or scrub vegetation with little or no opportunity cost. The
delays in reclamation and settlement of these areas by 3 years
results in a loss of about Rs 500 per ha in NPV terms. In the ex-
treme if these areas would not be reclaimed the ERR would be reduced
to about 8% and the loss in NPV terms would increase to about Rs 10,000
per ha for same MIPs.
(e) Paddy Cropping Patterns in Rabi: The water requirements for growing
one ha of paddy in the rabi season could be sufficient for growing
3-4 ha of other crops. Since water is the main constraint in this
season, it should be used to irrigate crops with low water require-
ments to maximize the return per m3 of water. However, the
tendency for growing paddy is stronger if the distribution system
is not designed (or is not completed) to allow efficient irrigation
of crops other than paddy. The economic viability under this alter-
native would be about equal to the one described under (b).
(f) Increased Rabi Water Supply: Increased water supply in MIPs with
completed dams can result only from greater conveyance and/or
operational efficiency. An increase of 10% and 30% in water supply
at the 5 ha outlet would increase the ERR to about 15% and 16%
respectively.



-85-
ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION II PROJECT
List of Documents in this Project File
1. Draft Project Profiles of Major and Medium Irrigation Projects to be
Sponsored for I.D.A. Credit, GOO, 1982.
2. Orissa Project Summary of the Bankbal Irrigation Project, CWC, 1982.
3. Orissa Project Summary of the Daha Irrigation Project, CWC, 1977.
4.  Orissa Project Summary of the Dumerbahal Irrigation Project, CWC, 1979.
5.  Orissa Project Summary of the Gohira Irrigation Project, CWC, 1979.
6.  Orissa Project Summary of the Harbhangi Irrigation Project, CWC, 1971.
7.  Orissa Project Summary of the Jharbandh Irrigation Project, CWC, 1980.
8.  Orissa Project Summary of the Kansbahal Irrigation Project, CWC, 1982.
9.  Orissa Project Summary of the Kanjhari Irrigation Project, CWC, 1981.
10. Orissa Project Summary of the Kuanria Irrigation Project, CWC, 1979.
11. Orissa Project Summary of the Pillasalki Irrigation Project, CWC, 1980.
12. Orissa Project Summary of the Ramiala Irrigation Project, CWC, 1977.
13. Orissa Project Summary of the Remal Irrigation Project, CWC, 1979.
14. Orissa Project Summary of the Sarapgarh Irrigation Project, CWC, 1977.
15. Orissa Project Summary of the Sunei Irrigation Project, CWC, 1977.
16. Orissa Project Summary of the Talsara Irrigation Project, CWC, 1977.
17. Orissa Project Summary of the Upper Jonk Irrigation Project, CWC, 1982.



-86-
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1983/4            4984/85           1985/86            1986/87
1   2   3   4   1   2    3   4    1   2   3   4   1   2    3   4
MEDIUM IRRIGATION
Ongoing                                   -       -    - --                            -                    
New                                     _ _   . _
COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT
Land Consolidation                       _        _         _           .                  _         _        -
On-Farm Development
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT
MIP WMC Centers                                   _                                        _             _
Extension Intensificatlon                _                 - _   _            - _  _
field Demonstralton                      _                               - _   _                - _  _        -
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT                         * 0      I0 0 lo    *
Planning                                -m_    _ *             * - m    -
In-Service Training                                        _        -   -                  _                I
New Recruit Troining                                        -       -   -         -   - =                -   -
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT                     *        0   0*   0 *
Plannlng                                    m==4W-t  -4  W-I 
Pilot & Demonstratlon                                       -       - _       -   -        -    _
Studles & Experiments                                       -   -        -   -   - _       -                  -
00-0 Fornoatlon OfSpecial Units
* _ m      Planning. Investigation, Design & Procurement
-           Execution
1 Increased agricultural extension. which Is essentlal to Improve the
perormance & viablilty of project MiPs, would be provided under the
T&V extensbn system supported under the ongoing Orissa Agricultural
Deloprnent Project                                                                               World Bank-24663



-87-
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Government of Or,ssa and Project Agencies
Organization Chart
i      Government of
Orissa
I
Chief Secretary &
Development Commissioner
Additbnal Chief Secretary &
Developrnent Conmmmssm o &et
Agirbuitural i'roduction    ||Commissone r & Secretary,  | |Cornmissine & Secretary,
|   Commissioner       l                       nrigiaflon & Power                        Revenue DepcrtTment
IEngine-in-Chief,                 Board of                 Commissioner
Commissioner & Secretary,   Commissioner, Comrndnd                Irrgaton                      Revenue                   Land Revenue
Agricuiture & Cooperation      Area Development
I .   .   I  Chief Engineers,         Land Reforms                   District
Irrigation                 Commissioner                  Collectors
Director of Agriculture                                                    1
& Food Production                                                                 I                       peI
Director of                Special Land 
Consolidation             Acquisitlon Offimcers 
World Bank-24659



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Inifgalton and Power Depavtment-MIoga1ton W,ng
Ofganization Chaot
F
R & D AMVsory                                    A MSciitorml Secretary
li  Carnniee         T                                   &Adviser
Planning
SE I EE 2
(R&D&TraInIng)                                          gChief                                -Mnitoeg
l   l                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EE4
. _ , . l_ _ E . ~I                          .                        ief
CE-MlPs Sargarlhrn ManIPe  CE Malai'sSouhere                                         CEM                            CE                            CEs                           CE
( Taisara MdP                                                                                                Rehabilitalion Circler(South d iahoni Ri)  Mnor  .   MeonICal  Major  Flood Contri  &
C Ehna MiPs NorainagengMastehenPlan
(North d Mahanadi Rhw) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~  MhaOi arae
SE 3 EE 17                               SE 4 EE 20                          Irrigation                   SE 1 EE 14                      Prqects                  Mahctncsci BlarogsB
.    I   .1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SE Ramada Inigalian CircleirlrrgaionCide                                                                                                                       E 
SE   ka                                  SE   r     igtion Circie               SE   4                                                          SE 2 EE                  E 
- Saropgirh MIP P- Harhariore MIP                                               EE  27
- -Jharonidrch MIP                          -                                      -otrnRge                  |SE RengJall                                      _ , | Circles 
- Talsora MIP     C                                                               Soter|ane_______to_Cr_ S  CDeseinns  Qaliyatr Irrigation                                                       |
- Ramioio MIP                 ~~~~~~~SE Weshem Irrigation Circle         CE Sof2ie   ag              oiaMPS   1'aa                                               atmIfgto
ReKmsbaal MIP                                                                  - HaDesangnMsPFEE3FE 
- Khann_a MIP _ _i - Dunrbahal MIP                                              -Hydrological                                                                             DaInage Master Plan
_I   | UpprerJonk MIP                           l  nvestlgacitions   |                                                                 Mahanadi B3arroges
Md m Irrigation C                      SE Rayogae  Irtion Clrccb                                                                                      E
- -Esnkaba MIP                                                                                                                                __
- -Sunel MIP                               -  -Kuanria MiP               llIr                                                                      Ptr
SE - Superintending Engineeraki IP                                                                                                     Pter
- -Daha MIP                             .     I     __I                                                 SE 1 EE i0 
|SE Northern lrrXigatknClrcle                                            I           Designs  ||QuaiSty Conrol         Do                             I cft   
i    -Romiaia MIP        l      | ~~~~~~~SE Southern Irrigaction Clrcird!o   CE - SE 2 |     & Reeac           soet                         inS rcvati 
- -Reiral MIP                              - 7   Harabhaing1 MIP                                           EE 3  s       EE 3  |                                 I
t~~~                  ~ ~~~~~~~ Bo  -xcianuia MIP                                                     s
MIP-MNeciium lrifigation Project
CE -Chief Eng;lraw
SE -Superlntencingl5 Englinrew
EE - Executive Engineer
- - - -  Units to be Fnrmed Under the Project                                                                                                                                       Warld Bank-24788



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Typical Inigatton Circle
Organization Chart
LEVEL
CIRCLE                                                                SUPERINTENDING
ENGINEER
DESIGN UNITESMANGUI
DMSION       EXECTIEVE EN(INE                       ENGINEER          EXECUTIVE ENGINEER
(NMechanical)           (Canal Constructon)          (Dam Constniction)          EXECUTNE ENGINEER            EXECUTNE ENGINEER
SUB-DMSION         2-4 ASSISTANT                2-4 ASSISTANT               2-4 ASSISTANT               2-4 ASSISTANT                2-4 ASSISTANT
ENGINEERS                   ENGINEERS                   ENGINEERS                   ENGINEERS                    ENGINEERS
SECTION         8-16 JUNIOR                 8- I6 JUNIOR                8      NIO                   8-16 JUNIOR     1           8-16JUNIOR
EW|INEERS                       INEERS                  ENG                         ENGINEERS                    E ENGINEERS E
For construction of a typical 10.000 ha proJect                        InvestigatIons              On an
Operation & Maintenance     area
Minor Construction Works       basis
World Bank-24847



INDIA
IRRIGATION II PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance of Typical 10,000 Ha MIP
Organizaflon Chort
LEVEL
SUPERINTENDING
ENGNEER
CIRCLE
EXECUTIVE
DMSION                                                                                               ENGINEER
(O&M)
'        Le '
sua4x IWO                          ASSISANT E4NSNE   |ASSISTANT ENGINEER|
(H 5owf)                                                                                         (DisMbutAon)
JUINOR   |       JNIOR   |      JUNKR           JUNOR                                                         R                          JUNIOR                           JUIOR
ENGINER         ENGNEER         ENSNEER         ENGINEER                                                 ENGINEER                        ENGINEER                         ENGINEER
|FOREMAN |                                                                                
IPATROL  IPATNOL   IPATROL         ~I PATROL        IAR{             PTO             PIO              PTO
EMI           MT              MT              I MATE         IMTE              MTIAEIME
|4 KAIASSIS  ||4 KALASSIS    |4 KASSIS  |       4 IALASSIS  |    AMIN      |1 AMN           | |MA              1 AMIN       |   AMIN        |   AMN             1 AMIN          1 AMIMN
IIII15-10KALASSIS ||5-KALASSTS ||5-10KALASSIS ||5-10KALASSIS   5-1 KALASSIS | -10KAIAS|  5-10KALASSIS    5-IAS
Wodd Bank-24848



-91-
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production
Organization Chart - Extension WMng
Sec ray of
Agkrculture
|         ~~~Dlrectcr
Aqlcute &
iFocd Produclon
Diecta                                    Aciitbnol Diector                                  Director
Soil Conievatmon                                Akricuiue &                                      Houiure
Joint~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~grclua Direce (a.62)uu
40ricuiturul~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vllg Agricultural
Do ntyUrecta. Agriculture                                       Deputy Dirctor Agicutture
~Orgnlzalon h~n epa ately oagren  3
- - - -  -xeso -          ----           ----          
1  1   S,ceciol itiroms  l   I                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~Dir,rict i 13)
| |Joint Directa or, giulture||r
!   |  eministrstion   l         l         M~~~~~~~~Aaptive iRessarch            Distict Agiricultural  i
i                                 ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~i hrs 13                       Oftwc (30)           I
g   Susci iirrrn    l                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Addciona l Distrit 1 1
AcunsO rricultural Ofc (62)
i NpuryDite&or, Agriculture |n2                                                                        i
Ferfilizers                                                Agrl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ktcultural Extension
l                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~O"Ic6 (778)
D ieputy Dlrector, Agriculture|ii
I                                 Vil~~~~~~~~~~~~~lXice Agricultural
Workser (5,911 )
De"td Dimector, Agiculture                  __________*_________I
|   Depur Uncta,Ag riculture|
Pouo& Vegietabe
[    A"sstant Directa.r,
Ag;ricuitre             |*Organization O)own sePoroteiy
Cotton                                     ExIso   n
LE~~~ ~~~ Worldi30nk-24662



INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
OrganIzatlon Chart - Agricultural Engineering
On-Farmn Devlopment
Agrlculture &
Food Production
Add. Director
Agriculture &
Food Production
Jt Dlectar
Ag4rcuitue&
Engineering
Executive   Executive          EKecutiVe         Executive          Exctie 1            xcutive          Executive
Bhubaneswora        eaur                                 Engineer          Engineer          ErginewE           EnginewEr                            Engineer           Enginee
Diiso            DMslon            DMslo               Dvsio nI      CA-DMsion II      CAD-DMsion IIl    CA-Mslon r~         A-iiinV          CAD-DMslon VI      CAD-Dti MlnVI
t  I   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
(AJllidShm)       (lidShed Sched  cem)                 (Bhubsewmo)       (Shubouneswar)       (utc)            (KenrKiapoad)       (hdl)           ] (Sanbolpi-r)       (aolanglr)
Assistant          Assistant         Assistant         Assistont
Engineew           Engineer          Engineer          Engineer
= iun|iorn 
L  (4)
Surveyor        ~Chainmon
(1)              ~~~         ~          ~~(1)Ann
World Bonk-24661



-93-
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Improved Turnout from  Watercourses
FRONT VI EW
PRECAST PANEL AND LID                                    CROSS SECTION OF
PANEL AND LID
L ~~~~To 5 ha chak
Precast panel
COMPLETE BRICK MASONRY INSTALLATION
Source: Thomas Trout, W.D. Kamper and H.S. Hasan, "Circular Irrigation Turnout: Design and Construction",
Water Management Synthesis Project,Colorado State University, Ft. Collins, Colorado.
World Bank-24083



-94-
INDIA
ORISSA IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT
Canal Regulation Pilot Project
Pool or    E      Head Module (1)
Water Surface Levels        Constant Level Gate (2)               Duckbill
I  _  JL        Y                                         zW~~~~~~        ~~                   ~~~~~~~eir (2)  Transversal
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mx                                                                                         Wir I (2)
Canal Bed                                                            _
(1) Controls flow at headworks. Where necessary due to large 4H, a downstream control gate in combination with a module would be
substituted for the head module to insure constant design Q in distributary.
(2) Controls water level to maintain constant level upstream of device; duckbill weir may be constructed with or without a built in gate.
DISTRIBUTARY UNDER UPSTREAM CONTROL
Downstream-controlled
Pool or          Constant Level Gate
Parent Canal                                                                          Downstream-controlled
AH   I                 Horizontal Canal Bermrn                                          Constant Level Gates 
(1) Each gate automatically maintains constant water level downstream of gate and controls both flow and water level.
(2) Each reach between gates is a level top canal with horizontal berms.
DISTRIBUTARY UNDER DOWNSTREAM CONTROL
(Level Top Canal)
H,aX                {   Baffle                                                           Counterweight
Water Level
Q -45%Q +7%
Downstream Constant
Module                                                              Level Gate
HYDRAULIC OPERATION
World Bank-24084















E  70 . tx~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
L   /  S  H  R  --- c > ' - =_ i; E _.rk-






__________                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD   16795
i       STA;- 'i                                                                                                                                                 --I  A  7                       rC 10  _RD 19p
~~"""'""'  "'""'"~~~~~~~~~~""                     B ~~~   I   jH        A'o,,
4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~
K                   ,:                             N', et3, , @tvJ                         A                                                                                  ''s Ii. )_  Nde7,
8.0031     '                           v  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A          fl6 A 
.   ,, ,>;-" 3d/t   0g > tO F    5T-.   ,, 
ti;f'';:;:~~- A, >                                       eN                                                                            7:
I-                                                                                                     N>"~~4~ _
,-                   -- i0   ;      ~   en              ONE A1l l - ~,          TlI'bs1           '1      '           .'  ''s:   "       'se ''NJNrN    /  '  l  '' e  uf'   a'D  go  ' : D-ftARRg'N;  :
T                                            - $7                    '          SS - /I    IRRiGATION1 PROJECT
*__          _            . _    ..... l .. .. /                      _ .                 .. .               _        _ _ D.Ol _ < _ _ _:_ _______ :sbL TYPES
Li  /I'N'H   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.r                                                                   ff111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Red soN
-4   ~ ~ ~ I               1"N'[ILL/  ood red sod beer scl
79  s.'w                                                                                         II ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sotite SIN.a-
>'>  7                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~0 strtbe, odor 



I



_ , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 165796
________________   -   82                                5',                                 A)-   -.                                                 -          F    DECEMBER   1952~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FI MB R    98
PAKISTAN'         C H I N A                                                                                                            -t
<N.                                                                            B        I     ,H          AC~~~~N~  P                      K                              Midrorco                  '3ALCLSSA H  Z
11)1                                                                             1                          vs      ('                              ,~~.11.11V n= I.
II    A N D I A                                                                                                                  '                                                  '           -             E-roug E 
1,r.AAr               taS 0t'                                                                                                                               '-'                                                    B E  N  0Vt   :fA>L;)
''442~          A?A$  CA>0 ;r?~tA)3A   -.  1)D 1:?'':^$   10: 9   ,E,A    ESz?;V01 32--~''
yAN,KA  S   '   -' -'0f.                                        ,i                                                         U      L,<  
--                                                    ,~          S k.DS ,?                             NArr-r '         0~;    2Cr,. -   EpPr.w  D                           $  'i\ 0
_'                               2<,    H Cm
l    )            ~~~~-.  ""'V% A  ( NA"0                          So  - PIR A f X    A u             ,,'22.   tr                             Dhsto,,v -idurrr 0                          vCtrtA^                      ,>,,s 
49~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
  9'      '5 4 1                                          A                              4          -                                 "'A  N
'3iK;    A  LS                                                 59         A                              A        >                                ;
t                              d3'-o '      L             L _,ir ,  _,             > '  ,' K                                                                                                      K  _O5.          _   _ _
U                          /1                                                                                  '5    '\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~705 A  0 G O   4.~  PRO EiT
R A   P c(                                      I-c                    ,    A-                <
/                                                         Arm   /tAAHSAAC    Cr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C~o,dAroDA.mq                                                 B    AR          " ET
/                                              >~f                       Nti A' U .elHN7ji                                                                                 ALD MEYER
1  -    '   to            r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ar ~2,t
A    N ~       ~        I      P       ' AY,D E-S
EQ   RAP     /                 <5            >~>Al0 'V        -                                       PROJECT-                                             8
5'  7                        "-'A"-~~~~~~~sw  6                                                                   ARU~A
yE  K.  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~~~~~-r~~~~~*'  1  /  .5 ~~~                       ~~~                                  ~~~                               ~ZOE






IBRD  16878R
MIP  RRIGATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Al -3 ,,AE.
CIRCLES         7'             '        /                                                (                          B        I        H        A       R
"'ii,goi,on 2.-vl,s2_Oni.e ),pt                                                                                                                                                                                  E ' -etPv?Lato 1 <v<  ...........................  rW E S T
Nt                               A4LA        .0/A                       rm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    '~~~~~~~~~~~-N..f  ./~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ... 
I.                                    *                                                                          0        '
7!
-21 hp=v s   T_bsanp apiAb                  An         /t         '>~g  '      ' /'                                                                                MAIdN -)O    /0'b1d  :we/   . /)    d v.2
qa1 RbF Dsl_rrulnn~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              1Al /n- J . .  -~c                                      2'-~ AJ\    <vAIl'    frx:    h  
5                                 "~~~7    -        A '/A"                                                         A    0 :       =/91, , E - ~                  a 
20'                                   C                                                               23.A-AA/ C  AAO5  \'v\-o/a',"                              1 I'                 /                                              20'
-  *r                                                                                                               A         -   4 i_ A            
x ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x
'0"0'N t  i        /    /         A                    ' 0 X ;Xi d; 7; 0 t  i- W@JXdf f /  e; t hc t @-@ t2' < \36    -                  I N   D  I A
t                           /9?                                   4n2 g..  /;. \-.-  - tr  t    1-   ........    (  @ ; F S ;  / <ORISSA     IRRIGATION     11   PROJECT
~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~RADIO                                                                                TA S ISO           REQUIREMENTS  FOR
fl0 /-rS <   +  <  :>f;   : I';V j ':dN t>"                                  MEDIUM  IRRIGATION  PROJECTS
- N'Nu X                                                                                                                                . -t V/5J  0  , , z S \}t9' %X0 S t r i r a z ' = pg / ,' Rcidio Stations Needed  3'
(,.:-  .l   j@;t2HlLr    <            llC-: %5-                         j5r A                                                         Division Heoadovoileas
'4d f -'. . , -- , :       .     ,          f         t t 4M' /      MP
+ ~~~~~~~~~905                                                    *                                             zgwR a   Ddi tTransmission Disteocas kilometers)
d - ;.t n: ; , ioAovf  _                       Agw g e / i Dyqsion t. MIP
A5>.  ;:;    t.       0/4tnfS            t.~                                                     A/                                                                    tou   Plq to :cill1ts and Flood Plains
/':                                                          -                                                         :        D : :X J Ff i  Ral   Uplands
/                                                                    I                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Moona-o  -ed H II
,,.          t                        A   N   D  H  R  A                                                                                                     '   Spot Hoighes lotons)                                            la:
. 4                           ~~~~~~~~P  R  A   D ESH                             .:       ,      2a     Z       0     oO     laKr   gsRes
'I                                    PRADESH                         0""                        ____________________ _                                    -"-' Silono- Boundarles
az-~~~~~ ~ ~                             ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                            ~ 33  01 :C nuna  6a7  



