CREDIT NUMBER 1397 IN
Project Agreement
(Orissa Irrigation II Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF ORISSA
Dated                                 , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1397 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     -                       , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AS OCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the STATE OF ORISSA (hereinafter called Orissa),
acting by its Governor.
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India (hereinafter called the Borrower), acting
by its President, and the Association, the Association has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ninety-seven million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 97,100,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that Orissa agree to undertake such obligations toward the Asso-
ciation as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS  Orissa, in   consideration  of   the  Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORF the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the.Project
Section 2.01. Orissa shall carry out the Project, described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admini-
strative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 2.01 of this Agreement, Orissa shall ensure that:
(a) the planning, design, construction, operation and
maintenance of MIPs under Part A of the Project shall be carried
out in accordance with estabiished technical and economic
criteria;
(b) the planning, design, construction, operation and
maintenance of the watercourses, field channels and drainage
channels under Part C of the Project shall be carried out in
accordance with established technical and economic criteria; and
(c) MIPs under Part A (i) of the Project shall be monitored
and MIPs under Part A (ii) of the Project shall be appraised and
monitored, pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 4 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Orissa undertakes to ensure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by Orissa to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
Orissa shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Orissa shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) Orissa shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project


﻿- 3 -
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by Orissa of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a desc:iption thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Orissa and
the Association, Orissa shall prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by Orissa and the Associa-
tion of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.06. (a) Orissa shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exihange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations tinder
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b) Orissa shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Orissa of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 2.07. For purposes of assisting in the coordination,
policy-level guidance and monitoring of the various activities
under the Project, Orissa shall, not later than August 31, 1983,
establish and, thereafter, maintain, a State Coordination and
Monitoring Committee chaired by the Development Commissioner of


﻿-4-
Orissa, such Committee shall include as members representatives
of Orissa's Irrigation, Agriculture and Cooperation and Revenue
departments, and of any other agency or department of Orissa
related to the carrying out of the Project, as shall be neces-
sary.
Section 2.08. Orissa shall:
(a) not later than March 31, 1984, prepare and furnish to
the Association, a model management plan for MIPs under Part A of
the Project; and
(b) not later than six months prior to commencing operation
of the irrigation water distribution system within each MIP under
the Project, taking into account the Association's comments, if
any, apply to such MIPs, a detailed management plan based on the
model referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, provided,
however, that in the MIPs under the Project in which, at the date
of this Agreement, irrigation water is being provided, such
detailed management plan shall be established and applied not
later than September 30, 1984.
Section 2.09. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, Orissa shall:
(a) maintain in each MIP under the Project, a suitably
qualified Assistant Engineer' with such responsibilities and
functions as shall be required for the efficient management of
each MIP under the Project; and
(b) establish and, thereafter, maintain, in each MIP under
the Project, a Water Management Committee with such powers and
responsibilities as shall be required for the efficient operation
of such MIPs; such Committee to include as members, inter alia,
the Assistant Engineer in charge of the respective MIP, repre-
sentatives of Orissa's concerned departments and farmers' repre-
sentatives, including the Chairman of the local elected body
(Panchayat Samiti).
Section 2.10. The provisions of Section 2.09 (b) of this
Agreement supersede the provisions of Section 2.02 (d) of the
Prior Project Agreement.
Section 2.11. Orissa shall, not later than March 31, 1984,
establish and, thereafter, apply a management information and


﻿- 5 -
monitoring system for Project construction and operation of the
MIPs under the Project.
Section 2.12. Orissa shall carry out detailed surveys of the
cultivable command areas within each MIP, adequate for land
acquisition and for alignment of canals and watercourses, such
detailed surveys shall be conducted not later than six months
prior to the carrying out of construction works in MIPs under the
Project.
Section 2.13. Orissa shall, six months prior to the compl-
etion in each MIP of works under Part A of the Project, take all
action as shall be necessary to strengthen its agricultural
extension and supply support for carrying out the Project,
including provision of adequate supply of production inputs,
agricultural credit and market facilities.
Section 2.14. Orissa shall:
(a) not later than September 30, 1983, establish and,
thereafter, maintain, the Water and Land Management Institute;
(b) not later than March 31, 1984, establish and, there-
after, maintain, for assisting its Irrigation and Power Depart-
ment, a Research and Development Cell with such responsibilities,
functions and staffing as shall be required for carrying out
Parts D and E of the Project;
(c) not later than June 30, 1984, establish and, there-
after, maintain a technical-level Research and Development
Technical Advisory Committee with such functions, responsibi-
lities and membership as shall be required for advising, guiding
and monitoring the Research and Development Cell provided for in
paragraph (b) of this Section, such Committee to be chaired by
the Secretary of Orissa's Irrigation and Power Department and
shall include respresentatives of its Department of Agriculture
and Cooperation as well as representatives of the engineering and
agricultural universities and other agencies and departments of
Orissa carrying out research and development and training
activities related to the Project; and
(d) not later than September 30, 1984, prepare and furnish
to the Association for its review and comments, work plans and
schedules for carrying out Parts D and E of the Project, and
thereafter, taking into account the Association's comments, if
any, carry out such work plans.


﻿-6-
Section 2.15. Orissa shall take all action as shall be
necessary to ensure quality control in respect of the design,
construction and maintenance of MIPs under the Project.
Section 2.16. (a) Orissa shall: (i) maintain its existing
panel of experts to review the plans and design of the dams and
related structures under the Project and their adequacy; and (ii)
cause said panel to conduct periodic reviews during design and
construction to examine whether any new grounds for making
changes in the design of such dams and related structures have
become apparent; and
(b) without limiting the generality of Section 2.01 of
this Agreement, Orissa shall, under arrangements which have been
agreed between the Associ:tion and Orissa, cause the dams and
the related structures constructed under the Project to be
periodically inspected in accordance with sound engineering
practice in order to determine whether there are any deficien-
cies in the condition of such structures, or in the quality and
adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of the same,
which may endanger their safety.
Section 2.17. Orissa undertakes that:
(a) regular irrigation water shall be delivered to any
Chak within MIPs under the Project only after an appropriate
rotational water allocation piocedure has been established and
applied within such Chak, provided, however, that in those Chaks
within MIPs under the Project where irrigation water has been
delivered prior to the date of this Agreement, but that the
irrigation distribution system under Part A of the Project has
not been completed to the date of this Agreement, Orissa shall
comply with the provision of this paragraph by October 31, 1984;
and
(b) not later than sixty days after completion of works
under Part C (i) of the Project, establish and, thereafter, apply
appropriate rotation water supply procedures, provided, however,
that in those Chaks where such works have been completed under
the Prior Project Agreement, Orissa shall comply with the
provisions of this paragraph by October 31, 1984.
Section 2.18. Orissa shall take or cause to be taken all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out


﻿-7-
the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for pur-
poses related to the Project.
Section 2.19. Orissa shall at all times cause the buildings
provided under the Project to be efficiently maintained, as well
as the vehicles, facilities and equipment provided under the
Project to be efficiently operated and maintained, and all neces-
sary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance
with scund engineering and financial practices.
Section 2.20. Orissa undertakes to take all measures as may
be considered necessary to minimize the risk of malaria and other
water-related diseases within the Project area.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Orissa shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the
project or any part thereof to: (i) maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
principles and procedures consistently applied, its resources,
expenditures and operations related to the Project; and (ii)
furnish to the Association copies of their accounts and financial
statements related to the Project for each fiscal year, certified
as to their accuracy and authenticity by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Association, as soon as available but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such .year.
Section 3.02. Orissa shall cause its department and other
agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial
sf:atement related to the Project for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association immediately following its finali-
zation, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish or cause to be furnished, to the
Association such other information concerning said accounts and
records, financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-8-
Section 3.03. Orissa shall:
(a) not later than March 31, 1984, undertake a study on the
appropriate irrigation water charge system with the objective of
recovering full operation and maintenance costs and a reasonable
portion of the capital costs and measures to improve the collec-
tion of such charges;
(b) not later than December 31, 1985, prepare and furnish
such study to the Association and, thereafter, taking into
account the Association's comments, if any, and also having
regard, inter alia, to the incentives and repayment capacity of
farmers, implement the recommendations of such study; and
(c)  in the interim, the water charges shall be reviewed in
light of the Eighth Finance Commission recommendations.
Section 3.04. Until the recommendations of the study
referred to in Section 3.03 of the Agreement are implemented,
Orissa shall make annual budgetary allocations adequate to meet
operation and maintenance expenditure requirements for MIPs under
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Orissa thereunder shall terminate on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms, and the Association shall promptly
notify Orissa thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿-9-
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Orissa:
Agricultural Production Commissioners
Government of Orissa
Bhubaneswar, Orissa
India
Cable Address:
AGRISEC
Bhubaneswar, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Orissa may be taken or executed by the
Secretary of the Government of Orissa or such other person or
persons as Orissa shall designate in writing, and Orissa shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 5/
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF ORISSA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Association in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, Orissa shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as
the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. Orissa shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 12 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which would be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following -methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India if
the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of Orissa and the Association that the manufacturing
cost of such    goods includes a value added in India
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs


﻿- 13 -
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C, which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(a)  Contracts for civil works shall be let on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with local
procedures satisfactory to the Association, provided, however,
that in the case of contracts awarded under Work-Order proce-
dures, each contract shall not exceed the equivalent of $25,000
and in the aggregate not to exceed 10% of the total cost of civil
works to be financed under the Project; and
(b) Contracts for purchase of light equipment and vehicles
estimated to cost less than $100,000 each, may be procured on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance
with local procedures satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and for goods to be
procured pursuant to paragraph A of this Schedule:
(a) Before bids are invited, Orissa shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Orissa
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-


﻿- 14 -
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
Orissa and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), Orissa shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Orissa and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, Orissa shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines thatthe proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform Orissa and
state the reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works may be carried out through force account,
provided, however, that such works shall not exceed 20% of the
total cost of civil works to be financed under the Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           -day of
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


