Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18863
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2353-UNI)
January 29, 1999
Rural Development 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =   Naira
US$1          =   10.7   1991 (at appraisal)
US$1          =   17.3   1992.
US$1          =   23.5   1993
US$1              21.9   1994
US$1          =   71.8   1995
US$1          =   81.5   1996
US$1          =   82.2   1997
US$1          =   85.0   1998 (at conipletion)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP        -  Agricultural Development Project
APMEU    -  Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
EU         -  European Union
EFO        -  Ecological Fund Office
EIA        -  Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP        -  Environmental Management Project
ERR        -  Economic Rate of Retum
FACU       -  Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FAO        -  Food and Agriculture Organization
FEPA       -  Federal Environmental Protection Agency
FMANR    -  Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
FMF        -  Federal Ministry of Finance
FMWR       -  Federal Ministry of Water Resources
FORMECU -  Forestry Management Evaluation and Coordinating Unit
GIS        -  Geographical Information System
ICR        -  Implementation Completion Report
IDA        -  Intemational Development Association
NPC        -  National Planning Comunission
NRCC       -  Natural Resources Conservation Council
ODA        -  Overseas Development Administration
SDR        -  Special Drawing Right
UNDP       -  United Nations Development Program
Vice President    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director     Yaw Ansu
Technical Manager     Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Team Leader      Dele Ilebani



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction .
Project Objectives and Components.                                                        I
Achievement of Project Objectives              .3
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project.6
Project Sustainability                                                                    7
Bank Performance                                                                          7
Borrower Performance .8
Assessment of Outcome                                                                     9
Future Operations.1 0
Key Lessons Learned                                                                      I0
PART Il: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments.                                                          11
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits .......................................             13
Table 3: Project Timetable ......................................... 14
Table 4    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual  ....................................... 14
Table S:   Key indicators for Project Implementation .......................................  15
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation .......................................   15
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project ........................................           16
Table 8A: Project Costs.18
Table 8B: Project Financing .19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .                                                    19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .2
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .23
Table 12: Bank Resources: StaffInputs .23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .24
APPENDICES
L. Aide Memoire of Completion Mission
II. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
MAP: IBRD 27298
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of theirofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2353-UNI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Environmental
Management Project (EMP) for the Federal Republic of Nigeria, for which Credit 2353-
UNI in the amount of SDR 18.8 million (US$25.0 million equivalent at appraisal) was
approved on April 14, 1992 and became effective on March 18, 1993.
The Credit was closed on March 31, 1998, after an extension of two years. Final
disbursement took place on September 3, 1998, at which stage the Credit had been fully
disbursed. The project was to be cofmanced by ODA, EU, UNDP and the Montreal
Protocol Interim Fund for a total amount of US$7.2 million. With the exception of the
Montreal Protocol Interim Fund ($0.2 million), the proposed cofmancing for the project
was not provided because of political and implementation problems.
The ICR was prepared by Colleen Logan of the Environment Division, Africa
Region, with assistance by the former task manager, Townsend Swayze, and reviewed by
Joseph Baah-Dwomoh (Sector Manager, AFTR2), Bhagwanti Khushalani (AFTR2),
Eavan O'Halloran (AFTR2), and Jeri Larson (AFC12).
The preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision
mission from March 9 to 20, 1998, led by Mr. Dele Ilebani of the World Bank Nigeria
Resident Mission. The ICR is based on the results of this mission, discussions with
Government officials and the project beneficiaries, as well as material in the project files.
The Borrower contributed to the preparation by providing project information and status
reports, and prepared its own extensive completion report which is attached as an
appendix to the ICR.



ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2353-UNI)
NIGERIA
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Nigeria's economic development and rapid population growth caused severe
environmental damage throughout the 1980s, to the point where environmental problems
had become a matter of urgent national concern. In response to a request by the Federal
Government of Nigeria (FGN), the World Bank prepared the December 1990 report -
"Toward the Development of an Environmental Action Plan for Nigeria" - which
evaluated Nigeria's environmental problems. This report was developed with the close
participation of the Nigerian federal and state governments, academics, as well as local
stakeholders through the benefit of public workshops. It confirmed that there was weak
institutional capacity in the country to address environmental problems and it
subsequently made several proposals for developing the required skills and capacity. The
in-depth discussions of the report's findings formed the preparation and appraisal of the
World Bank's first environmental project in Nigeria, the Environmental Management
Project, which became effective in March 1993.
Project Objectives
2.    The project's main goal was to develop an effective program at the national and
state levels which integrated environmental activities in the country on an inter-sectoral
and inter-regional basis. The project had three primary objectives: (a) to develop and
strengthen institutional capacity; (b) to establish an information data base in order to
measure environmental problems; and (c) to complete a series of studies that could
support policy and project activities.
3.    These objectives were implemented with three basic project components:
institutional strengthening, data collection, and studies:
(a) Institutional Strengthening. At the outset of the project, Nigeria's few
existing environmental organizations and departments were weak, disparate, and lacked
coordination and linkages. At the national level, the keystone of these organizations was
the Federal Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA).  The project planned to
strengthen the FEPA through: (i) moving it from the Ministry of Works and Housing to



- ii -
the Office of the President and making it responsible for all of Nigeria's environmental
policies; (ii) providing support to FEPA in carrying out design, implementation,
monitoring and enforcement of appropriate environmental incentive systems and
regulations; and (iii) providing training to assist other government departments
responsible for operational programs in key areas - agriculture, forestry, water, and
planning - to develop environmentally sustainable policies in all their activities. The
project also was designed to assist each of Nigeria's 36 states to establish and develop
state environmental protection agencies and their programs. This was important for
laying the groundwork for developing environmental management capacity throughout
the country. At the local level, the project intended to support nearly 600 local
government authorities.
(b) Information Data Base. The second major project component was support
for a data collection network with a central coordinating unit at FEPA and information
gathering modes in line Ministries. The project was to fund the installation of the
Geographical Information System (GIS) and training for its operators for gathering
information on soils, drainage, and erosion, as well as fund the collection of basic
socioeconomic data. Finally, the project proposed to develop a coordinated system for
gathering information and procedures for making the data available to other users.
(c) Studies. A series of studies were to be financed under the project which
would lay the groundwork for addressing biodiversity issues and waste management,
identify specific investment projects critical for alleviating environmental degradation,
and monitor the impact of macro and sector policies. Funds were also allocated to be
used for major national and regional workshops that would develop the country's
guidelines on environmental impact assessments, assessment of industrial pollution, and
a development strategy for the critically important problems of the Niger Delta. In
addition to these studies, the project funded community-based pilot activities such as
community forest management, the development of non-timber products, and wildlife
conservation.
4.    Project Costs and Financing.  Actual project costs were US$27.3 million
compared with the appraisal estimate of US$37.9 million. The difference was due
primarily to the fact that three of the cofmanciers, ODA, EU and UNDP (for an amount
of US$7.0 million) did not disburse. Government's contribution amounted to US$1.3
million as compared to the appraisal estimate of US$5.7 million. IDA's contribution of
US$25.0 million was fully disbursed (actual amount US$25.76 million), after extending
the project's closing date by two years. The rate of project implementation, as reflected
by disbursements, was heavily bunched at the end of the project compared to the more
evenly paced flows estimated at appraisal.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Although the project was signed in May 1992, it took almost a year for. the
project to become effective due to: (i) late appointment of project officers; (ii) delays in



- iii -
the setting up of the Data Collection and Information Management Unit and the
appointment of its manager in FEPA; (iii) delays in the opening of relevant project
accounts by FEPA; and (iv) the government agencies' and beneficiaries reluctance to
incur expenditures and to make commitments on planned activities until effectiveness.
Further delays were experienced due to the frequent leadership changes of the lead
institution, FEPA. This was compounded by inadequate counterpart funding and the
relatively low level of Bank supervision during the early years of the project. Thus,
noticeable progress on the project was not made until late in 1994, over two and a half
years after Board approval.
6.    Achievement of Objectives.  The Federal Environmental Protection Agency
(FEPA) was successfully moved to the Office of the President. Despite frequent changes
in leadership which hampered the progress of the agency's programs, the senior
management team remained and provided continuity and the project's large training
program contributed to the growth and influence of FEPA. Project training also
substantially assisted other government departments responsible for operational programs
in key areas - agriculture, forestry, water, and planning. The project, through FEPA,
provided assistance to each of the country's 36 states to establish and develop state
environmental protection agencies and their programs. The formulation of the state
environmental programs was important in laying the groundwork for developing capacity
throughout the country for addressing environmental problems at the state level. At the
local level, the project made an important start to disseminate information throughout the
country. The project achieved some success in supporting nearly 600 local government
authorities, although it fell short of the ambitious objectives originally laid out in this
area.  Despite the many achievements in institutional strengthening, overall, this
objective has to be rated as only partially met due to the frequent changes in the
leadership of FEPA.
7.    The project supported a network of data collection with a central coordinating
unit at FEPA and information gathering nodes in line Ministries. The project-funded
GIS databases are among the most complete in Africa, with detailed nationwide spatial
and temporal information on land use for 1978 and 1995, including information on soils,
drainage, and erosion. Basic socioeconomic data was also collected. The agencies have
developed a coordinated system for gathering information and procedures for making the
data available to other users. During the first few years of the project's implementation,
some problems were encountered due to the early effort to centralize all data gathering
under FEPA, which ran counter to the overall project design of the GIS component.
However, later progress was very satisfactory and a special extension was approved for
this component in view of its achievements in capacity building and management of GIS.
The objective regarding establishment of an information data base on the environment
was therefore substantially achieved.
8.    Many studies were carried out under the project laying the groundwork for
addressing biodiversity issues and ozone depletion. Studies were conducted on waste
management, hazardous waste tracking, laws on compensation, and on the impact of



- iv -
macro and sector policies. Funds were also used for major national and regional
workshops that developed the country's guidelines on environmental impact assessments,
assessment of industrial pollution, and a development strategy for the important problems
of the Niger Delta. It is hoped that future government activities, possibly with Bank
assistance, would help implement the many useful findings arising out of the studies.
9.   In addition to these studies, the project provided funds for community-based pilot
projects for activities such as community forest management, the development of non-
timber products, and wildlife conservation. These projects had an enormous potential,
but unfortunately were limited in number because of problems in supervision and
disbursement of funds by the overseeing agencies. However, these were successful at:
(i) helping to conserve a number of local key forest, wetland, and wildlife habitats;
(ii) address river degradation and pollution; and (iii) develop programs for degraded
mine lands and industrial recycling.
10.   BankPerformance. While the project preparation and appraisal can be faulted for
not being adequately detailed, the project design provided important flexibility to adapt
to the changing circumstances as institutions gradually found their way and as
opportunities arose that could not be foreseen at the time of appraisal. In particular, the
project description was sufficiently flexible to allow for a critical initiative to provide
much stronger support for the states and local communities. Project start-up was slow
due mainly to the delays in effectiveness, lack of overall project leadership in the
government (a weakness of the project design), and leadership shifts and changes in
FEPA. In the early stages of project implementation, the Bank's performance could have
been even more effective had it provided greater resources at the Resident Mission to
supervise the project closely at the field level, particularly the decentralized components
of the project. Bank supervision did improve strongly over the life of the project with
the fielding of two to three major supervision missions annually as well as more effective
follow-up from the Resident Mission. The strong supervision effort in the latter part of
the project managed to correct most of the initial faults so that overall Bank performance
merits a satisfactory rating.
11.   Borrower Performance. During the start-up stages, the Borrower's performance
was deficient as FEPA, which soon emerged as the project's key institution, had
difficulty providing adequate leadership. The Ministry of Finance was not equipped to
play the more active leadership and coordinating role that was envisaged at the time of
project appraisal. Implementation was also delayed by inadequate counterpart funding,
the difficulty in setting up adequate Special Accounts, problems in obtaining waivers for
import duties, and the centralization of procurement clearances. There were also ongoing
problems of coordination among the multiple government agencies. However, after the
slow project start-up, the performance of the Borrower did improve. During the course of
the project, FEPA did grow in strength largely because of a very committed management
team and the vision of its Directors during the periods of agency stability. Project
activities with regard to forestry greatly benefited from the Forestry Department's
previous experience with Bank projects and a strong team.  Although Borrower



-V -
performance eventually improved, overall it did not reach the standard to be considered
satisfactory.
12.   Assessment of Project Outcome. Valuable information has been gathered on the
degradation of the country's soils and vegetation and has been disseminated widely. A
number of studies were completed that advanced national and state policies and
strategies. In this process, an enormous amount of work was done to develop dialogue
and linkages with a wide range of public, private, and community representatives,
significantly raising public awareness and understanding throughout the country. The
large numbers of people trained under the project should have an impact on national
policies and programs. In addition, the project has begun a process of improved
cooperation and coordination among the various key organizations concerned with
environmental and natural resource issues in Nigeria. Thus, the overall performance
rating of the project is satisfactory.
13.   Project Sustainabilit. It is uncertain whether the project will be sustainable. It
is important to note that the project was originally designed to be the first phase of a
more long-term effort for developing environmental management capacity in Nigeria. In
this regard, the project was successful at laying the groundwork on which future
activities could be built as well as developing a framework for environmental
management at both the national and local levels. State Environmental Protection
Agencies have been established and State Environmental Action Plans completed in
almost all the states and in the Federal Capital Territory. Environmental Impact
Assessment guidelines have now been published and made available to all government
agencies at cost. It is now mandatory for any development project in the country to
conform with the guidelines. However, there are risks as to whether the achievements of
the project will be sustainable for two reasons: political instability may continue to
overshadow efforts to implement environmental activities; and it is unclear whether the
capacity built in the agencies will be sustained and how much influence they will have on
national and local policies and programs in the evolving political changes. GIS is a
complex activity that takes more than a few years to become internalized. During the life
of the project, substantial training was completed and hardware installed, but there was
relatively little time to ensure that these systems and the coordination among the
departments involved were sufficiently in place to meet their longer term objectives. On
its own, FEPA may not be able to provide the necessary support to help galvanize the
initiatives that were beginning to take shape at the end of the project toward developing
local programs. If the political and overall economic conditions permit, a follow-up
project as originally envisaged will help provide deeper roots for the achievements made
under the project.
Future Operations
14.   The Bank has not supported any new operations in Nigeria since 1993. This was
due to an economic policy and governance climate that the Bank found unsatisfactory
and the Nigerian government's embargo on foreign borrowing (imposed in 1994 and



-vi-
lifted on January 1, 1999). The situation in Nigeria has begun to improve significantly
and the prospects for renewed Bank operations in Nigeria have improved markedly.
Key Lessons Learned From Project Achievements
15.   A central lesson is the overarching importance in a complex technical assistance
project for effective management and close supervision at the field level. The decisions
necessary to move ahead with the project activities needed to be more decentralized from
the outset to give the project units within each agency much more authority for
procurement of goods and services. The potential contribution of the project to the states
and local communities became much more apparent a couple of years into the project,
after which time the Bank did allocate sufficient resources in the field to help the
Government take full advantage of this opportunity. It would have been preferable for
the Bank to have had substantial resources in the Resident Mission from the initial stages
to provide adequate ongoing supervision and support to move with the project as it
developed, and to ensure coordination among the various agencies.
16.   The implementation period envisaged in the project design was too short. The
project was ambitious but it is widely recognized that environmental issues are broad and
complex. In the case of this project, the framework was particularly complicated as the
Bank was working with 7 federal agencies, 36 state agencies, and a total of 15 entities
carrying out pilot projects. Although the subsequent extension of the project closing date
by two years permitted implementation of project activities to be completed, for the
achievements on institutional development to be sustained it would require follow-up
interventions,  as  originally  envisaged  when  the  project  was  designed.



ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2353-UNI)
NIGERIA
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    Nigeria's economic development and rapid population growth caused severe
environmental damage throughout the 1980s, to the point where environmental problems
had become a matter of urgent national concern. The remaining rainforests and fisheries
were severely at risk, and soil degradation and coastal erosion were serious problems.
Ground and surface water contamination had raised important health issues and
industrialization and urbanization had made air quality and industrial wastes a major
concern. In Nigeria, as in other African countries, it was widely recognized that there
was a critical relationship between poverty and natural resource use, with the urgent
demands on physical resources threatening conservation and contributing to poverty.
2.   In response to a request by the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN), the World
Bank prepared the December 1990 report - "Toward the Development of an
Environmental Action Plan for Nigeria" - which evaluated Nigeria's environmental
priorities and problems. This report was developed with the close participation of the
Nigerian Federal and state governments, academics, as well as local stakeholders through
the benefit of public workshops. It confirmed that there was weak institutional capacity
in the country to address environmental problems and it subsequently made several
proposals for developing the required skills and capacity. The in-depth discussions of the
report's findings formed the preparation and appraisal of the World Bank's first
environmental project in Nigeria, the Environmental Management Project, which became
effective-in March 1993.
Project Objectives and Components
3.    The Environmental Management Project's (EMP) main goal was to develop an
effective program at the national and state levels which integrated environmental
activities in the country on an inter-sectoral and inter-regional basis. The project had
three primary objectives: (a) to develop and strengthen institutional capacity; (b) to
establish an information data base in order to measure environmental problems; and
(c) to complete a series of studies that could support policy and project activities.



-2 -
4.    These objectives were implemented with three basic project components:
institutional strengthening, data collection, and studies.
(a)   Institutional Strengthening. At the outset of the project, Nigeria's few
existing environmental organizations and departments were weak,
disparate, and lacked coordination and linkages. At the national level, the
keystone of these organizations was the Federal Environmental Protection
Agency (FEPA). During the project design stage, it was recognized that
the FEPA was a fledgling organization, originally housed under the
Ministry of Works and Housing. The project planned to strengthen the
FEPA through: (i) moving it to the Office of the President and making it
responsible for all of Nigeria's environmental policies; (ii) providing
support to FEPA in carrying out design, implementation, monitoring and
enforcement of appropriate environmental incentive systems and
regulations through the provision of technical assistance, office equipment
and supplies; and (iii) providing training to assist other govemment
departments responsible for operational programs in key areas -
agriculture, forestry, water, and planning - to develop environmentally
sustainable policies in all their activities.
The project also was designed to assist each of Nigeria's 36 states to
establish and develop state environmental protection agencies and their
programs. This was important for laying the groundwork for developing
environmental management capacity throughout the country. At the local
level, the project intended to support nearly 600 local government
authorities.  The EMP was the first comprehensive attempt to build
capacity for environmental management in Nigeria. The complexity of
the project (which included numerous studies; training and equipment for
a number of federal agencies, departments and the states; and the
development of a GIS system) required strong leadership from FEPA.
(b)   Information Data Base. The project was designed to support a data
collection network with a central coordinating unit at FEPA and
information gathering modes in line Ministries. It was also to fund the
installation of the GIS and training for its operators for gathering
information on soils, drainage, and erosion, as well as fund the collection
of basic socioeconomic data. Finally, the project aimed to develop a
coordinated system for gathering information and procedures for making
the data available to other users.
(c)   Studies. A series of studies were to be financed under the project which
would lay the groundwork for addressing biodiversity issues and waste
management, identify specific investment projects critical for alleviating
environmental degradation, develop laws on compensation, and monitor
the impact of macro and sector policies. Funds were also allocated to be



-3 -
used for major national and regional workshops that would develop the
country's guidelines on environmental impact assessments, assessment of
industrial pollution, and a development strategy for the critically
important problems of the Niger Delta. In addition to these studies, the
project provided funds for community-based pilot projects for activities
such as community forest management, the development of non-timber
products, and wildlife conservation.
5.    The project was to be administered by each participating agency under a
decentralized arrangement. All participating agencies were made fully aware of the
World Bank's guidelines on procurement and auditing procedures. The project was
designed to be implemented over a three-year period beginning after credit effectiveness
on March 13, 1993 with a closing date of March 31, 1996.
Achievement of Project Objectives
6.    Although the project was signed in May 1992, it took almost a year for the
project to become effective due to: (i) late appointment of project officers; (ii) delays in
the setting up of the Data Collection and Information Management Unit and the
appointment of its manager in FEPA; (iii) delays in the opening of relevant project
accounts by FEPA; and (iv) the government agencies' and beneficiaries' reluctance to
incur expenditures and to make commitments on planned activities until effectiveness.
After effectiveness in March 1993, project implementation was slow to get off the
ground due to the lack of experience with operating World Bank assisted projects by
most of the implementing agencies, and frequent leadership and institutional changes at
FEPA. This was compounded by inadequate counterpart funding and the relatively low
level of Bank supervision during the early years of the project. Thus, noticeable progress
on the project was not made until late in 1994, over two and a half years after Board
approval.
Institutional Strengthening
7.    The project played a critical role in the dramatic growth of FEPA's institutional
capacity and policy role in the Office of the President, which was further supported by
FEPA's establishment of linkages with several Nigerian universities. More effective
progress on the various project programs, however, was hampered by the frequent
change in leadership of FEPA - a total of five times during the course of the project.
Fortunately, the senior management team in FEPA remained and provided important
continuity and, over time, the large training program contributed as well to the growth
and influence of FEPA. Project training also substantially assisted other government
departments responsible for operational programs in key areas - agriculture, forestry,
water, and planning. The project made a modest contribution to increasing the capacities
of the National Planning Commission, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ecological Fund
to understand and address environmental problems.



-4 -
8.    The original project concept was designed to support just three state
environmental councils to prepare state environmental action plans. In January 1995, the
Bank supported FEPA's initiative to provide assistance to each of the country's 31 states
(by the end of the project, the number of states had increased to 36 plus the Federal
Capital Territory) to assist in the development of state environmental agencies and action
plans for the states. This was an ambitious undertaking but critical to the development of
operational programs in the country.  This work ensured the establishment of
environmental organizations in each state, which were linked with the establishment of
FEPA regional offices, and led to the framing of action plans for most states. These
plans were important in laying the ground work at the local level for addressing
environmental problems. The project was also expected to support workshops and
training for the nearly 600 local government authorities. Unfortunately, this work was
not completed by the end of the project, but again, an important start was made to
disseminate information throughout the country and to start a dialogue. This work was
supported at the national level by workshops and public awareness programs held by
FEPA, including the establishment of procedures for environmental impact assessments.
9.    While the institutional building objective of the project remained sound, at the
mid-term review the Bank agreed with the government to give special emphasis to two
critical program areas. The project was to reach out more aggressively to assist the
states; and efforts were to be made, both at the pilot local project level and at the federal
planning level, to strengthen natural resource management. Important advances were
made in these two areas, but the time left in the project was too short to advance these
objectives as far as the Bank and the Borrower would have wished. However, a good
basis has been developed on which future activities could build upon.
10.   Despite the many achievements in institutional strengthening, overall this
objective has to be rated as only partially met due to the frequent changes in the
leadership of FEPA.
Data Collection
11.   The project designed a network of data collection with a central coordinating unit
in FEPA and information gathering nodes in the line Ministries for Lands and Soils,
Forests, and Water. The project-funded GIS data bases are among the most complete in
Africa, with information on the scale of 1:250,000 on land use for 1978 and 1995
covering soils, elevation and drainage, as well as an analysis of soil erosion. The
agencies are using the spatial and temporal information to study land use change; to
monitor environmental and, specifically, soil degradation; and to develop programs to
address these issues. The studies have also developed basic socioeconomic data. The
agencies have implemented procedures for making the data available to other users, for
example, for a flood study of the Niger Delta. Accompanying the major aerial studies
was an intensive training program in the use of GIS hardware and its applications.
During the first few years of the project's implementation, problems were encountered



- 5 -
due to the early effort to centralize all data gathering under FEPA, which ran counter to
the overall project design of the GIS component. However, later progress was very
satisfactory and a special extension was approved for this component in view of its
achievements in capacity building and management of GIS. The objective regarding the
establishment of an information data base was therefore substantially achieved.
Studies
12.   Under the project, many studies were carried out which laid the groundwork for
addressing biodiversity issues and ozone depletion. Studies were conducted on ozone
depletion, waste management, hazardous waste tracking, law on compensation, and some
work on the impact of macro and sector policies. National and regional workshops on
major studies of industrial pollution and a development strategy for the Niger Delta
provided important forums for public awareness and the basis for developing national
and local programs. It is hoped that future government activities, possibly with Bank
assistance, would help implement the many useful findings arising out of the studies.
13.   Related to these studies is something the project called, "the Part C Initiative,"
which was extended to 15 NGOs and some rural communities. Funds programmed under
the project for studies were used to support community-based pilot project proposals for
activities such as community forest management, the development of non-timber
products, and wildlife conservation. These studies helped to: (i) conserve a number of
local key forests, wetlands, and wildlife habitats; (ii) address river degradation and
pollution; and (iii) develop programs for degraded mine lands and industrial recycling.
These projects had an enormous potential to provide resources to a number of local
initiatives where there was great demand, but unfortunately they were limited in number
because supervision and disbursement guidelines were not worked out in time by the
overseeing agencies.
Project Costs and Financing
14.   Actual project costs were US$27.3 million compared with the appraisal estimate
of US$37.9 million. The difference was due primarily to the fact that three of the
cofinanciers, ODA, EU, and UNDP (for an amount of US$7.0 million), did not disburse.
Government's contribution amounted to US$1.3 million as compared to appraisal
estimate of US$5.7 million. IDA's contribution of US$25.0 million was fully disbursed
(actual amount US$25.76 million), after extending the project's closing date by two
years. The rate of project implementation, as reflected by disbursements, was heavily
bunched at the end of the project compared to the more evenly paced flows estimated at
appraisal.



-6 -
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Largely Subject to Government's Control
15.   The project had a slow start. Although the Credit was signed in May 1992,
effectiveness was delayed by almost a year due to the late appointment of project
officers. Further start-up delays ensued because the participating agencies were reluctant
to incur expenditures and make commitments on planned activities until effectiveness.
Thus, noticeable progress on the project was not made until late in 1994, over two and a
half years after Board approval. Also contributing to the slow start-up were the frequent
changes in FEPA's leadership.
16.   The Ministry of Finance did not have the resources to provide leadership to help
develop a network among the various environmental groups assisted by the project. In
turn, there was very limited capacity to undertake the many studies proposed, and little
experience in Bank procurement and procedures. Because of political problems and the
inability to reach agreements, the project indirectly suffered from the loss of support
from the three cofmanciers, the UNDP, ODA, and the EU, though it did not intrinsically
damage project performance.
17.   One serious organizational problem arose at project start-up when in the fall of
1992 the Government decided to centralize data gathering of the line Ministries (for
forests, lands, and water) under FEPA. In addition to FEPA's own limitations as an
implementing agency, these functions were essential to the work of the line ministries
and, if moved, would inevitably be re-established by them, thus duplicating this activity.
Because the centralization of data collection was contrary to the decentralized design of
the data network agreed to under the project, these actions threatened the cancellation of
the GIS component (about one-third of the project). This problem was not resolved until
the end of 1994.
18.  Implementation also encountered serious delays as agencies had difficulty
obtaining the necessary waivers for payment of import duties, and as the centralization of
procurement decisions contributed to clearance delays within the beneficiary
organizations. For example, it took FEPA eighteen months to clear 47 vehicles from the
Lagos port. The vehicles arrived in Abuja one month before the closing of the project.
Project activities were also continuously held up by delays in procurement clearances and
payments to local contractors. Underlying these problems was a perennial shortage of
counterpart funds.
Factors Largely Subject to the Control of Implementing Agencies and the Bank
19.   With the exception of the Forestry Department, the agencies being funded by the
project were initially unfamiliar with Bank procurement procedures. There were also
extensive delays in setting up the Special Account. The Credit Agreement provided for



-7 -
multiple accounts,>but in view of Bank experience in other Nigerian projects, only
FEPA's account was opened, which was limited to that agency's expenses. Only after an
amendment to the original Credit Agreement in 1996 did other agencies gain access to
the Special Account. Extensive delays in releasing funds by the Nigerian bank holding
the Special Account caused additional problems.
20.   The objectives of the project were overly ambitious for the four-year
implementation period scheduled.  For the most part, none of the agencies had
experience in Bank procedures nor the capacity for effective management of the wide
ranging activities under the project.
Project Sustainability
21.  It is uncertain whether the project will be sustainable. It is important to note that
the project was originally designed to be the first phase of a more long-term effort for
developing environmental management capacity in Nigeria. In this regard, the project
was successful at laying the groundwork on which future activities could be built as well
as developing a framework for environmental management at both the national and local
levels. State Environmental Protection Agencies have been established and State
Environmental Action Plans completed in almost all the states and in the Federal Capital
Territory. Environmental Impact Assessment guidelines have now been published and
made available to all government agencies at cost. It is now mandatory for any
development project in the country to conform with the guidelines. However, there are
risks as to whether the achievements of the project will be sustainable for two reasons.
First, the political instability in the country will continue to overshadow efforts to
implement environmental activities. Secondly; it is unclear whether the capacity built in
the agencies assisted by the project will be sustained and how much influence will they
have on national and local policies and programs in the evolving political changes.
22.   GIS is a complex activity that takes more than a few years to become
internalized. During the life of the project, substantial training was completed and
hardware installed, but there was relatively little time to ensure that these systems and the
coordination among the departments involved were sufficiently in place to meet their
longer term objectives. On its own, FEPA may not be able to provide the necessary
support to help galvanize the initiatives that were beginning to take shape at the end of
the project toward developing local programs. If the political and overall economic
conditions permit, a follow-up project as originally envisaged will help provide deeper
roots for the achievements made under the project.
Bank Performance
23.   While the project preparation and appraisal can be faulted for not being
adequately detailed, the project design provided important flexibility to adapt to the
changing circumstances as institutions gradually found their way and as opportunities



- 8 -
arose that could not be foreseen at the time of appraisal. In particular, the project
description was sufficiently flexible to allow stronger support for the states and local
communities.
24.  In designing the project, however, insufficient importance was given to the
institutional interaction among the seven agencies, and the difficulty of creating inter-
agency cooperation and a network. The complexity of the project was necessary to
provide sufficient assistance to the country's environmental institutional development to
make a meaningful contribution.
25.   Project start-up was slow due mainly to the delays in effectiveness, lack of overall
project leadership in the government (a weakness of the project design), and leadership
shifts and changes in FEPA. In the early stages of project implementation, the Bank's
performance could have been even more effective had it provided greater resources at the
Resident Mission to supervise the project closely at the field level, particularly the
decentralized components of the project. Bank supervision did improve strongly over the
life of the project with the fielding of two to three major supervision missions annually as
well as more effective follow-up from the Resident Mission. The strong supervision
effort in the latter part of the project managed to correct most of the initial faults so that
overall Bank performance merits a satisfactory rating.
Borrower Performance
26.   During the start-up stages, FEPA, the project's key institution, had difficulty
providing adequate leadership, both in advancing the project within the agency, and in
establishing coordination and cooperation with the other agencies. FEPA's work was
impaired by the frequent changes in its leadership, centralized decision-making, and lack
of constructive support from the Presidency. It was also an agency that in the face of
these challenges was still in its infancy.
27.   The Ministry of Finance did not play the more active leadership and coordinating
role that was envisaged at the time of project appraisal. Implementation was also delayed
by inadequate counterpart funding, the difficulty in setting up adequate Special
Accounts, problems in obtaining waivers for import duties, and the centralization of
procurement clearances. There were also ongoing problems of coordination among the
multiple government agencies.
28.   However, after the slow project start-up, the performance of the Borrower did
improve. During the course of the project, FEPA did grow in strength and presented
itself as a national policy maker largely because of a very committed management team
and the vision of its Directors during the periods of agency stability. Project activities
with regard to forestry greatly benefited from the Forestry Department's previous
experience with Bank projects and a strong team. The Forestry Management, Evaluation
and Coordinating Unit (FORMECU) was able to undertake several additional projects,



- 9 -
including forest management reserve studies and the production of a documentary
highlighting findings of the seminal land and vegetative use study. The Agriculture Land
Resources Department responded well to opportunities under the project and completed
the supervision of a very impressive study on land degradation, which, with the forest
department's land use study, provides the foundation for the country's GIS network.
Although Borrower performance eventually improved, overall, it did not reach the
standard to be considered satisfactory.
29.   Particularly disappointing were the opportunities lost under Part C of the project.
This was an initiative pursued after the mid-term review, so less time remained for
implementation. In spite of its modest financial allocation, assistance made available
under Part C for community projects was a very exciting opportunity to provide
resources to a number of local initiatives where there was a great demand and a little help
could go a long way. The concept for financing community pilot projects received
unqualified support from FEPA, but this was not followed by adequate resources and
commitment to respond to the tremendous enthusiasm and work of the local communities
and NGOs.
Assessment of Outcome
30.   The overall assessment of the project's achievement of the major objectives is
satisfactory. The project significantly contributed to the establishment of an institutional
capacity to identify and develop environmental policies and programs at the federal and
state levels. The project funded and guided the creation of a monitoring network for data
gathering and dissemination of detailed information on vegetation and land use, and on
soil degradation.   Valuable information has been gathered on the country's
environmental problems and is being disseminated widely. The forest study, for
example, has already been used as the basis for a television documentary series and
private groups are purchasing the data. A number of studies were completed that
advanced national and state policies, and strategies for conserving and protecting the
country's environment and natural resources. During the project's life, an enormous
amount of work was done to develop dialogue and linkages with a wide range of
government and community representatives, significantly raising public awareness and
understandinig of environmental problems throughout the country.
31.   The large numbers of staff trained by the project in the various agencies should
continue to have an impact on national policies and programs, assisted by the numerous
studies funded by the project. In addition, the project has begun a process of improved
cooperation and coordination among the various key players concerned with
environmental and natural resource issues in Nigeria.



- 10-
Future Operations
32.   The Bank has not supported any new operations in Nigeria since 1993. This was
due to an economic policy and governance climate that the Bank found unsatisfactory
and the Nigerian government's embargo on foreign borrowing (imposed in 1994 and
lifted on January 1, 1999). The situation in Nigeria has begun to improve significantly
and the prospects for renewed Bank operations in Nigeria have improved markedly.
Key Lessons Learned
33.   A central lesson is the overarching importance in a complex technical assistance
project for effective management and close supervision at the field level. The decisions
necessary to move ahead with the project activities needed to be more decentralized from
the outset to give the project units within each agency much more authority for
procurement of goods and services. The potential contribution of the project to the states
and local communities became much more apparent a couple of years into the project,
after which time the Bank did allocate sufficient resources in the field to help the
Government take full advantage of this opportunity. It would have been preferable for
the Bank to have had substantial resources in the Resident Mission from the initial stages
to provide adequate ongoing supervision and support to move with the project as it
developed, and to ensure coordination among the various agencies.
34.   The implementation period envisaged in the project design was too short. The
project was ambitious but it is widely recognized that environmental issues are broad and
complex. In the case of this project, the framework was particularly complicated as the
Bank was working with 7 federal agencies, 36 state agencies, and a total of 15 entities
carrying out pilot projects. Although the subsequent extension of the project closing date
by two years permitted implementation of project activities to be completed, for the
achievements on institutional development to be sustained, it would require follow-up
interventions as originally envisaged when the project was designed.



- 11 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial      Partial         Negligib1e     Not applicable
Maaco Policies                                                     E EQ
Sector Policies                     ]             IA               El                [
Financial Objectives                               I-              EA
Insttuional Development            El             El               El 
Physical Objectives                El5                              5                5
Poverly Reduction                  Q               21              El                El
Gender Issues                      5              E                El                21
Other Social Objectives            5               IA              El                El
Environmental Objectives           IEEl                                              El
Public Sector Management           5               I               El                E
Private Sector Development         5               21              El 
Other (specify)                                    E]              E                 IA
B. Project Sustainabiity              Likely                 Unlikely                 Uncertain
(1)                      (/)                       (f)      .
O                        El                       IA



- 12 -
Higbly
C  Bank Perfonnance                    satisfactory        Satisfactory               Deficient
(O)                     (1)                       (1)
Identification                                                                       Q C
Preparation Assistance              D                      1                         E
Appraisal
Supervision                        0                                                 0
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                     satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
(1)            (1)             (1)l
Preparation                                  a
Implementation                                             [               2l
Covenant Compliance
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                           H    y
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactory  Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
0/             0/ 0/                               /



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
| Loan/credit title                           Purpose                 Year of     Status
approval
Preceding operafions
1. 1092-UNI  Funtua ADP           Integrated Rural Development          1975    Completed
2. 1099-UNI  Gasau ADP            Integrated Rural Development          1975    Completed
3. 1164-UNI  Gombe ADP            Integrated Rural Development          1975    Completed
4. 1454-UNI  Lafia ADP            Integrated Rural Development          1977    Completed
5. 1455-UNI  Ayangba ADP          Integrated Rural Development          1977    Completed
6. 1667-UNI  Bida ADP             Integrated Rural Development          1977    Completed
7. 1668-UN    Ilorin ADP          Integrated Rural Development          1979    Completed
8. 1679-UNI  Forestry I           Forest Management and Reforestation   1997    Completed
9. 1719-UNI  ARMTI                Agriculture/Management Training       1979    Completed
10. 1838-UNI  Oyo North ADP       Integrated Rural Development          1980    Completed
11 1854-UNI  Ekiti/Akoko ADP    Integrated Rural Development            1980    Completed
12. 1981-UNI  Bauchi ADP          Integrated Rural Development          1981    Completed
13. 1982-UNI  Kano ADP            Integrated Rural Development          1981    Completed
14. 2029-UNI  ATAP                Agriculture Technical Assistance      1981    Completed
15. 2185-UNI  Sokoto ADP          Integrated Rural Development          1981    Completed
16. 2345-UNI  Fertilizer          Fertilizer input Supply               1982    Completed
17. 2436-UNI  Kaduna ADP          Integrated Rumal Development          1984    Completed
18. 2733-UNI  MSADPI              Integrated Rural Development          1986    Completed
19. 2760-UNI  Forestry II         Forest Management and Reforestation   1986    Completed
20. 2988-UNI  MSADP II            Integrated Rural Development          1989    Completed
21. 2035-UNI  MSADP Il            Integrated Rumal Development          1989    Completed
22. 3183-UNI  National Seed       Improved Seed Supply/Plant Quarantine    1990    Completed
Following operations
23. 2261-UNI  Agric. Research     Improved Basic Research               1991    Ongoing
24. 3451-UNI  Fadama Dev.         Small-Scale Irrigation                1992    Ongoing
25. 3483-UNI  NATSP               Extension/Adaptive Research           1992    Ongoing



-14-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned           Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                Feb 1991
Preparation                                                              Mar 1991
Appraisal                                                                May 1991
Negotiations                                                              Sep 1991
Board Presentation                                                       Apr 1992
Signing                                                                  May 1992
Effectiveness                                     Aug 1992                Mar 1993
Midterm review (if applicable)                                            Apr 1995
Project Completion                                                       Mar 1998
Credit Closing                                    Mar 1996               Mar 1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98    FY99
Appraisal Estimate             2.40    10.40   20.40   25.00   25.00   25.00    25.00
Actual                            0    0.05      1.07    2.73     7.77   21.52    25.76
Actual as %of Estimate            0     0.48     5.25    10.92    31.08    86.08  1/100.00
Date of Final Disbursement    September 3, 1998
1/ SDR 18.8M(US$25.76 million equivalent as of September 1998) wasfully disbursed.



- 15 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SARlPresident's Report   Estimated            Actual
1. Institutional Strengthening:                           _
Staff Training for all Agencies                     568 staff              257 staff
Procurement of Vehicles                             44 vehicles             54 vehicles
Procurement of Office Equipment                     287 various equipment   327 various equipment
State Environmental Action Plans                    22 States              31 States
Awareness Training for Local Govermment Staff       253 LGAs                4 LGAs
[   Laboratory Equipment                            3 units                 3 units
Library Books and Equipment                         I unit                  None
2. Information Network:
GIS Equipment                                      4 units                 4 units
Data Acquisition                                   4 units                 4 units
Technical Assistance                               4 agencies              4 agencies
Field Equipment                                    100 units               100 units
Sub-contract to generate Baseline Data             4 agencies              3 agencies
3. Studies                                              12 studies              9 studies
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(No indicators were specified in the SAR)
Key Operating Indicators in SAR/Presidents Report     Estimated (1988-2000)
1. Institutional Strengthening:
Staff training for all agencies                  147 staff from FEPA and SEPAs and 28 staff from
other agencies
State environmental Action Plans                 Action plans to be completed in 5 additional states
Awareness training for Local Govermnent Staff    Training to be done in five zones, comprising about
200 LGAs
Library books and equipment                      3 units at FEPA Headquarters and two zones
Monitoring of on-going Part C projects            15 NGOs
National Waste Management Strategy and Action Plan   One plan
Construction of more laboratories                2 laboratories to be constructed by FEPA at Kano and
Port Harcourt
2. Informafion Network:
Data Acquisition                                 Four Agencies - FEPA, Water Resources, FORMECU
and Land Resources
Establishment of field monitoring centers         11 Centers for FORMECU and Land Resources
Assembly of additional current aerospace data    6 Zones by FORMECU
Collection of thematic and ecological data       37 States
Revising of soil degradation maps                Various
Establishment of social data-bank                 One unit by Lands Resources
3. Studies.,                                          4 Studies



Table 7: Studies Induded in Project
Study                  Purpose as Defined at Appraisal/Redefined                        Status          Impact of Study
1.   Hazardous Waste        The study would assess the present volume and sources of hazardous waste  Not
Disposal Study         generated and present pattems of disposal, the nature and extent of the  implemented
environmental hazards posed by existing practices.
2.   Environmental Education  The study will review the present program designed for public awareness   Not fully  Comnnunities are now environmentally sensitive.
and Public Awareness   with the aim of recommending a strengthened program of public    implemented
awareness.
3.   Coastal Zone and Marine  The study is expected to devise strategies for the enviromnental  Completed    Report currently in use by the Niger Delta
Environment            management of coastal regions including legislative measures, contracts on       Environmental Survey (NDES) for identifying
land use, and the identification of capital investment that may be required.    areas of assistance to the Niger Delta.
4.   Legal Framework         This study is expected to propose such additional or revised legislation as   Completed  For the ftrst time in the history of the country, a  a"
may be necessary for effective implementation of the Govenmment's              legal framework has been put in place to regulate
environmental polices and objectives.                                           activities in the environment sector.
5.   Environmental Impact    The study would prepare suggested guidelines to be incorporated in the  Completed  Nigeria leading in EIA procedures in the West
Assessment Guidelines    Govermment's budget preparation process to assure that all relevant            Africa Sub-region. The guidelines are now
projects included in the Public Investment Program (PIP) have had               available to all citizens of the country.
environmental impact assessment in the PIP.
6.   CFC Phase-Out Study     The study would assess the current demand and use of CFCs and halons in  Completed  Nigeria is already working towards the phase-out
Nigeria, the consumption import/export statistics and the institutional and    in year 2005.
policy requirements that need to be developed for the effective
implementation of the Montreal protocol.
7.   Lagos Lagoon Pollution   Feasibility study leading to Lagos improvement project.        Not
Control                                                                                 implemented



Study                     Purpose as Defined at Appraisal/Redefmed                         Status          Impact of Study
8.   Industrial Pollution      The study will assess the present volume and principal sources of  Completed     Too early to estimate impact.
Diagnostic Study          individual waste generated in the rnain industrial areas, evaluate the
present processes for its management, assess the efforts on human
health, and identify an effective industrial waste disposal facilities.
9.   Industrial Pollution Control  Feasibility study leading to industrial pollution control Project.  Not
(Phase II)                                                                                implemented
10.  Hazardous Waste Disposal   Detailed engineering study for hazardous waste disposal facilities in  Not
(Lagos)                   Lagos.                                                          implemented                                                 I
11.  Management of National    Study providing background for improved management of national   Not completed
Parks                     parks.
12.  Hazardous Chemicals       The study would identify the sources and principal users of hazardous    Completed  Too early to assess impact.
Tracking System           chemicals in Nigeria and current disposal practices, and assess the
adequacy of current systems for licensing, reporting, and monitoring the
presence and movement of these chemicals.
13.  Environmental impact of    Guidance for the creation of policies leading to improved economic  Completed   No visible impact yet, but the National Plannming
present economic policies   incentives in agriculture and industry.                                        Office has now made it niandatory for EIAs to
and law                                                                                                    be carried out on development projects before
l                                                                                                           listing in the plan.
14.  Analysis of the economic    Basics for policy review of energy pricing and regulations for home fuel  Completed  No visible imnpact yet.
impact of current macro-  use.
economic policies and
suggested alternatives to
reduce environmental
stress.
15.  Forest Reserve            Management of some selected forest reserves that are currently under  completed  Four forest reserves have now been marked for
Management Study          threat of exploitation.                                                          improvement as a result of the study.



- 18 -
Table 8A: Project Cost
Agency                  Appraisal Esfimate            Actua/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                         (US$M)
Local    Foreign     Total    Local   Foreign      Total
costs     costs            .  costs    cosb
1.    INSTTrUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING
(a)    FEPA                         3.50      11.80      15.30     0.72    13.78       14.50
(b)    NPC                             -      0.80        0.80     0.06     0.49        0.55
(c)    FMF                                .   0.45        0.45     0.16     0.36        0.52
(d)    EFO                             -      0.10        0 .10    0.01     0.58        0.59
(e)    NRCC                            -      0.53        0.53       -         -           -
Total                          3.50      13.68      17.18     0.95    15.21       16.16
2.    INFORMATION
NETWORK
(a)    FEPA                         0.75       2.75       3.50     0.60     0.21        0.81
(b)    FMA - FORMECU                0.50       3.00       3.50     0.39     4.31        4.70
(c)    FMA - Land Resources         0.73       2.70       3.43     0.39     2.84        3.23
(d)    FMWR                         0.32      0.61        0.93     0.03     0.40        0.43
(e)    NRCC - FEPA                  0.13       0.40       0.53     0.05        -        0.05
Total                          2.43      9.46       11.89     1.46     7.76        9.22
3.    STUDIES
(a)    FEPA                         1.30      4.20        5.50     0.13     0.83        0.96
Total Base Cost                    7.23      27.34      34.57     2.54     23.80      26.34
Contingencies                      0.77       2.56       3.33     0.26      0.70       0.96
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    8.00     29.90      37.90    *2.80     24.50       27.30
* Government Local Cost contribution included is estimated as ofMarch 31, 1998 ($1.34 M).



- 19 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source               Appraisal Estimate (US$M)   ActualLatest Estimate (USSM)
Local   Foreign               Local   Foreign    Total
Costs     Costs               Costs     Costs
IDA                                1.5      23.5      25.0       1.5       24.3     25.8
Cofmancing Institution:
- MontrealProtocolInterimFund      -        0.2       0.2        -        0.2       0.2
- Overseas Dev. Administration    0.5       2.5       3.0        -         -         -
- European Economic Community     0.3       0.7       1.0        -         -
- United Nations Dev. Progrnune    -        3.0       3.0        -         -
Federal Govanment of Nigeria       5.7        -        5.7      *1.3        -        1.3
TOTAL                             8.0      29.9      37.9       2.8       24.5     27.3
* AsofMarch 31, 1998.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree-   Section   Covenant Present  Original   Revised                    Description of covenant                              Comments
ment                 type    status  fulfillment fulffillment
date      date
Credit   2.02(b)        I        C       1992       1995    The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and  In compliance.
maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial or
merchant bank on tenns and conditions satifactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provision
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Credit   3.01(b)        4        C       1992       1993    The Borrower shall naintain or cause to be maintained in a  In compliance.                l 
commercial bank or banks in Nigeria a Project Account (the
Project Account) for each one of the following Project Executing
Agencies, namely, FEPA, NRCC, FMANR and FMWR
satisfactory to the Association. Withdrawals by any such Project
Executing Agency from a PA.shall be made exclusively for
purposes of the Project.
Credit   3.01(c)        3        C       1992       1995    The Borrower shall: (i) provide in its budget amounts sufficient    Compliance after delay.
to cover the Borrower's counterpart contributions to the costs of
the Project; and (ii) deposit into each of the Project Accounts in
each fiscal quarter of the Borrower 25% of the counterpart
contributions required.



Agree-    Section   Covenant Present  Original   Revised                      Description of covenant                               Comments
ment                 type    status  fulfillment fulfillment
date       date
Credit   3.02(a)        10        C       1992       1993    The Borrower shall, through FFED: (i) appoint a suitable    In compliance..
qualified and competent member of FMFED's staff; or (ii)
employ a consultant in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to serve as Project Officer
under the Project.
Credit   3.02(b)         I        C       1992       1993    The Borrower shall, through FMFED: (i) appoint a suitably   FMFED's overall project role has
qualified and competent rhember of FMFED's staff; or (ii)  been reduced as a result of NRCC
employ a consultant to serve as an Accounting Officer under the    merging with FEPA, thus
Project.                                                   concentrating project activities in
FEPA.
Credit   3.02(c)        10        C       1992       1993    The Borrower shall cause FEPA to employ a qualified and     In compliance.
competent procurement officer.
Credit   3.02(d)        10        C       1992       1994    The Borrower shall establish a commrittee to allocate to the  In compliance.
respective sector ministries or agencies funds to be used by such
ministries and agencies to carry out studies under Part C of the
Project.
Credit   3.03(a)        10        C       1992       1994    The Borrower shall establish within FEPA, in a form and with  In compliance.
functions and staffmg satisfactory to the Association, a Data
Collection and InfonTnation Management Unit to be headed by a
manager with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association.



Agree-    Section    Covenant Present  Original   Revised                            Description of covenant                                    Comments
ment                    type     status  fulfillment fulfillment
date        date
Credit    3.03(b)          10        C        1994        1996    The Borrower shall establish a technical committee consisting of:   In compliance partially as no concrete
(i) senior representatives of each of the sectoral agencies with  responsibility is given to the selected
established data nodes or agencies for which such nodes are to   manager.
be established in the future; and (ii) technical members from
universities and resarch institutions co-opted to advise the
technical committee.
Credit    3.05             10       CP       Annual                The Borrower shall in each quarter fumish to the Association     Partially complied with.
status reports on the progress of the Project.
Credit   4.01 (a)          I         C       Annual                The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records     Special Account and project records  |    )
and accounts.                                                    are satisfactorily maintained.
Credit    4.01 (b) (i)     I         C       Annual                The Borrower shall have the records and accounts, including      Audit reports completed. Produced
those for the Special Account and the Project Accounts, for each  good reports.
fiscal year audited.                .
Credit    4.01 (b) (ii)    I         C       Annual                The Borrower shaUl furnish to the Association a certified copy of    Report received on schedule.
the report of such audit by said auditors.
Covenant Types:                                                                                                                 Present Status:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                         8, = Indigenous people                                            C  =  covenant complied with
2. =  Financial perfornance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting                       CD =  complied with after delay
3.    Flow and utilization ofproject funds                    10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9        CP =  complied with partially
4. =  Counterpart funding                                     11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation  NC =  not complied with
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing agency   12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                                 13. = Other
7. =  involuntary resettlement



- 23 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No non-compliance with the OMS was observed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                       Planned                Revised             Actual
Project Cycle                                                                             I
Weeks       USS       Weeks       US$     Weeks    US$
Preparation to Appraisal            na         n.a.       n.a        n.a      46.4      94,000
Appraisal                           n.a        n.a.        n.a.      n.a      14.3      42,000
Negotiations thru Board approval    n.a        n.a.        n.a.      n.a.     32.0      95,100
Supervision                        130.2    303,900      137.5   308,500     305.4    782,600
Comlpletion*                        15.5     23,300       15.5    40,400       9.2      23,600
TOTAL                             145.7    327,200      153.0   348,900     407.3   1,037,300
* Actual - as ofAugust 31, 1998



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project      Month/    Number  Days           Specialized Staff Skills        Performance Rating                    Types of Problems
Cycle             Year          of       in            Represented
Persons   Field
Implementaff   Development
on Status      Objectives
|Through Appraisal: 1/
- preappraisal        Mar '91        4          16     GIS
- appraisal           May '91        5          14     GIS; Procurement; Env. Econ.        _               _                                                l
Supervision           Oct '92        4         7       GIS; Proocurement
Nov '93       1          5      GIS
Jan '94       8          15     GIS; Procurement                   U                U         Leadership and FEPA restructuring;
centralization GIS; unfamiliarity Bank
Mar '94       2          2      -                                                             procedures.
Jun '94       2          2      -
Jul'94        2          5      -
Nov '94       3          4      GIS                                 U               U         - Leadership, centralization of GIS;|
unfamiliarity Bank procedures; delay in
establishing special account.
Apr '95       6          12     GIS; Procurement                    U               u         - Leadership; political unrest; procurement
preparation delay.
Nov '95       2          8      GIS
Feb-Mar'96   3           11     -
Jul'96        3          6      -
Oct '96       3          6      -
Nov '96       1          4      GIS                                                                                                   l
Feb-Mar'97   4           7      -                                  -S               s
May '97       1          4      GIS
Oct-Nov '97   3          6      GIS
Completion            Mar'98         3         22      GIS SIS                                                       -
1/ Project based on Bank 1990 Report, "Towards the Development of an Environmental Action Plan for Nigeria. " The preparation of this report is not included in this table.



APPENDIX I
- 25 -
NIGERIA
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT'
(EMP: CREDIT No. 2353-UNI)
Final Supervision and Implementation Completion Report Mission
AIDE - MEMOIRE
1.    An International Development Association (IDA) mission assisted by the
staff of Federal Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA), Forestry Monitoring,
Evaluation and Coordinating Unit (FORMECU) and Federal Ministry of Finance
(FMF)' undertook a final supervision of the Environmental Management Project
(EMP) during March 9 to 20, 1998, in preparation of the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR). The mission held meetings with all the implementing agencies to review
the status of project implementation, and to familiarize them with the ICR process. In
addition, the mission visited the offices and laboratories of FEPA and (FORMECU) in
Abuja, Federal Department of Land Resources (FDLR) and Federal Ministry of Water
Resources (FMWR) in Abuja and Kaduna, and undertook a five day field visit to Cross
Rivers, Akwa lbom and Rivers states to review the status of State Environmental
Action Plan (SEAP) and the performance of the Non Governmental Organizations
(NGOs) participating in the part C of the project. A wrap-up meeting held in Abuja on
March 19, 1998, and attended by key project officers of the implementing agencies,
some heads of State Environmental Protection Agencies (SEPAs), staff of the Federal
Ministry of Finance and some selected NGOs discussed the observations of the mission
and their comments have been utilized, as appropriate, in this aide-memoire. The
mission is grateful for the courtesies extended to it by the management and staff of
implementing agencies, SEPAs and NGOs visited.
2.    This aide-memoire, which is subject to review by the IDA management,
summarizes the mission's findings and conclusions, the agreements reached with the
Borrower and the implementing agencies, the operational plan of the project, and the
follow-up actions required under the ICR process. It assesses the objectives of the
project and their achievements, the major factors that affected project implementation,
the performance of IDA and the Borrower, the sustainability of the benefits of project
and the key lessons learned from implementation. It also indicates elements qf an
operational plan and suggestion for sustainability beyond the closure of the IDA
Credit.
I
The mission comprised Dele Ilebani (mission Leader), Hassan Hassan, Colleen Logan, Bayo
Awosenusi (World Bank), Ayo Olojede, John Mshebwala, Jide Adevemo (FEPA), Francis
Akinsanmi, Fred. Okonta (FORMECU) and Hamna Mohammed (FMF).



- 26 -
Project Background and Objectives
3.    Background. A credit of SDR 18.9 million (US$ 25 million) from IDA to the
Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) was approved in April 1992 as part of the
financing for the EMP to be implemented over a 4-year period, at an estimated total
cost of US$ 37.9 million by seven agencies of the FGN; FEPA, FORMECU, FDLR,
FMWR, FMF, National Planning Commission (NPC), and Ecological Fund Office
(EFO), and some selected NGOs and state agencies to which the credit was granted by
the FGN. The project was the first environmental sector project as a follow-up to an
environmental sector report prepared jointly by the FGN and the World Bank in
December 1990, following a request from the Government. The project was appraised
in May, 1991, approved on April 14, 1992, and became effective on March 18, 1993.
Due to the lack of implementation experience on the part of the implementing
agencies, except FORMECU, the project did not take off as scheduled and was
extended twice to March 31, 1998, without any formal reallocation of funds, except
the conversion of the unallocated to implement the part C by some selected NGOs and
state government agencies. At the close of the credit, a total of SDR 11.3 million
(US$ 15.0 million) had been drawn from the credit account. However, a total of US$
7.0 million co-financing expected from UNDP, ODA, and EU did not materialize
during the life of the Credit, but the UNDP funded its own Environment and Natural
Resources Conservation Management Project through FEPA and SEPAs, for
approximately $US 2.6 million.
4.    Objectives and Components. The EMP had three main objectives: (a) to
strengthen Nigerian environmental organizations, and to assist them in implementing
their programs; (b) to establish a program of data collection that enables the
govermnent to measure levels of environmental degradation, and to be aware of
environmental trends over time; and (c) to complete a series of sector investigations
and feasibility studies leading to soundly conceived programs, including capital
investments, necessary to redress the prevailing degradation.
5.    To translate these objectives into a program of concrete actions, the project
was expected to finance three major components:
(i) institutional strengthening - through support to FEPA, EF, NPC, FMF and
SEPAs (through FEPA) in carrying out the design, implementation, monitoring
and enforcement of appropriate environmental incentive systems and supplies,
and regulations through the provision of technical assistance, training, office
equipment and supplies, and studies regarding environmental conditions and
economic incentives for enviromnentally beneficial activities. Assistance to
states was to put primary emphasis on institutional building, training and the
development of SEAPs. The cost of this component was estimated at about
US$ 18.29 million or 48.2 percent of the total project cost;
2.
This amount includes, US$13.3 million from the credit and US$0.4 million from counterpart
funds. A higher amount is expected at the close of project account after July 31, 1998, when all
goods and services already delivered would have been fully paid for..



- 27 -
(ii) Environmental information network - through support for the
establishment of a data collection system and information network necessary
for monitoring environmental trends throughout the country. Support was to
include technical assistance, training, laboratory and computer equipment,
incremental recurrent costs, and the cost of aerial surveys and satellite imagery.
The cost of this component was estimated at US$ 13.0 million or 34.3 percent
of the total project cost; and
(iii) Studies component - intended for the identification of specific investment
projects critical for alleviating environmental degradation, as well as feasibility
studies for projects where implementation is to be carried out by Government
agencies. Specific studies targeted were: industrial pollution, Lagos Lagoon
pollution, hazardous wastes disposal for the city of Lagos, and the management
of the National parks. This component was expected to cost US$ 6.61 million
or 17.5 percent of the total project cost.
6.   In addition to the components, there was a part C which was later expanded to
assist some (NGOs) and other government agencies (not directly involved in project
implementation) to carry out some studies, and mitigating actions on environmental
degradation.
7.    While the project objectives were clear and relevant to the country's needs,
implementing them over a four year period by mainly agencies that were not very
familiar with Bank procedures and implementation techniques was not easy,
particularly due to the fact that some of them were newly established. The project
proved to be highly demanding of FEPA (only established in 1989), who was not
operationally well-equipped to implement a complex institution building program
involving 37 SEPAs, 250 LGAs and 15 NGOs.
8.    Covenants. Among the covenants to facilitate project implementation were the
provision of adequate counterpart funds, employment of a qualified and competent
procurement officer by FEPA, and employment of suitably qualified and competent
project and accounting officers by the Borrower, establishment of an allocation
committee to allocate funds to beneficiaries of part C of the project, renderingof
quarterly progress reports to the Association, and establishment of a technical
committee (for the information network component) with members from senior
officials of the sectoral nodes, and technical members from the universities and
research institutions co-opted to advise the technical committee.
Achievement of Objectives
9.   Institutional Strengthening. Apart from the inability of FEPA to fully
implement its support to the states and Local Government Authorities (LGAs), this
component was satisfactorily implemented. As could be seen from Table 1, below, all
the implementing agencies completed their prescribed training courses, procured
almost all the required vehicles, office equipment, camping equipment and
rehabilitation of two laboratories belonging to FDLR and FMWR for soil analysis and
water quality monitoring. Also, FEPA was able to assist in the establishment of
SEPAs in all the states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory.



- 28 -
Statistics on Institutional Strengthening
Table I
Agencies     Staff Training       Vehicles        Office Equipment        SEAP
3
______  Target   Actual   Target   Actual   Target   Actual   Target   Actual
FEPA-    481        163      22        31        196      239       22       31
FORIvE   37         37       10        10        25       30        -
CU                                                                     _
FMWR    12          7        4         4         20       12        -
FDLR      25        32       5         5         27       27        -
NPC       5         4        1         1         4        4         -
FMF       5         10       1         2         10       10        -
EFO       3         4        1         1         5        5         -
10.   However, a major set back in the implementation of this component was the
inability of FEPA to deliver the required vehicles and laboratory equipment to the
states prior to credit closing, even though most of the states had completed
arrangements to receive the materials and vehicles. Most of the SEAPs were at various
stages of completion at the time of the ICR, but the few states visited were satisfied
that the SEAP was undertaken, although on the whole they found the document weak
and not specific to the problems in their state. They hoped to have a document which
would assist in the management of their environment. The LGAs awareness program
took care of only 12 states out of about 31 states earlier planned, because of some
contractual problems.
11.  Information Network. The establishment of a National Environmental
Information Management and Monitoring Network in Nigeria was a main objective of
the environmental program, "Towards the Development of an Environmental'Action
Plan for Nigeria" (December, 1990.) The network includes several sectoral nodes,
involves a number of line agencies and requires considerable investment of human and
financial resources for its establishment and day to day operation. The design of the
network is based on a demand-driven approach embracing several nodes at sectoral
agencies and a central node at FEPA. FEPA's node is the main central node where all
data on the environment is received (taking the broadest meaning of the word
environment). Sectoral nodes were established at line agencies managing natural
resources and the environment. All nodes were designed in compatible and
3
Equipment includes: computers, photocopiers, camping equipment, filing cabinets etc.



- 29 -
comparable formats so as to function as integral parts of the network as well as
autonomous sectoral resource information management and monitoring units.
12.   The three principal environmental problems facing Nigeria that require
immediate attention are; (i) Land degradation, (ii) vegetation and forestry
degradation, and (iii) water and -air contamination. Generating credible up to date
information and developing sustainable monitoring programs on them is the first step
for addressing the problems and thus constitutes the main objective of the project.
13.   The Central Node at FEPA. The central node at FEPA is the Data
Management Unit (DMU). The DMU also reports to, but is not controlled by, the
technical committee which provides advice and suggests modifications on the DMU
programs and activities. The DMU maintains linkages with other national, regional and
international organizations interested in natural resources and environmental
information management.
14.   As part of its coordinating role, the main functions of the DMU, are:
 Strengthening the capacity of collaborating sectoral (the network) and other
institutions with mandates to produce environmental information;
* Inproving coordination and collaboration among institutions, within the network;
* Developing guidelines for data compatibility and quality control;
* Addressing hardware and software issues with a view to operate within set
standards;
* Promoting and encouraging the use of a standard digital framework for data
collection;
* Developing and disseminating a Meta database constituting descriptions of datasets
held by the collaborating institutions within the network;
* Promoting the use of accurate, up-to-date and timely information in decision-
making processes at all levels; and
* Collectively facilitating the proper and smooth functioning of the network, and
implementation of its activities.
15.   Under the project, the sectoral nodes were built in the existing data monitoring
units within the sectoral departments. Three nodes in the priority areas were -
established, namely; (i) vegetation and forestry, and (ii) lands and soils, and (iii) water
quality and quantity.
16.   Vegetation and Forestry at FORMECU. The sectoral node at FORMECU was
further developed through the project to perform the functions of the vegetation and
forestry node. The achievements include the following:
* Production of nation-wide spatial and temporal data base on vegetation and
landuse at a reasonable scale;
* Development of an appropriate sustainable data collection and monitoring
program;
* Establishment of an adequate information management system as part of the
National Environmental Information System.



- 30 -
17.  Lands and Soils at FDALR. The Federal Department of Agriculture and Land
Resources (FDALR) was the designated agency for the implementation of the
agriculture and land management sector node. The sector program identifies the need
for the development of an intensive program for quantification of land degradation.
This is also a pre-requisite for the establishment of a National Environmental
Information System. The project aimed to equip the department with the needed
expertise and resources in order to act as the sectoral node collecting and managing
information on soil and land degradation issues. As at credit closing, the project had:
*     Established a framework for the sampling of land degradation through
the demarcation of major land management situations;
*     Verified existing material that would allow comprehensive analysis of land
.usage; and
*     Developed methods to indicate the physical changes and the economic impact.
18.   Water Ouantity and Quality at FMWR. The Federal Ministry of Water
Resources (FMWR) was charged with managing water resources quantities and
qualities. The Ministry is implementing this through six technical federal departments.
One of the departments, the National Water Resource Institute is conducting research
and training in resource information management including Geographical Information
System (GIS). This is currently the only nation-wide water resources information
management program in the country.
19.   The water quantity and quality information management node was built on
these initiatives in the Federal Ministry of Water Resources supported by the Water
Resources Institute.
20.    Early on, a major institutional problem that faced the implementation of the
project and the NEAP in Nigeria, was the lack of understanding of the role of FEPA
vis-a-vis line ministries. Senior management in FEPA, earlier thought that their role
was to enforce and execute environmental procedures. The project through the
various missions and exchange of letters succeeded in convincing FEPA that its role
should be in monitoring the environment, providing leadership and policy advice
through environmental policy dialogue and internalizing environmental concerns in line
ministries that are charged with development and natural resource management.
21   Another institutional problem relates to the environmental information network.
When the environmental information system, which was to be implemented under the
project was designed in a network format (rather than a center) it was made very clear
that FEPA should not be replacing the line agencies in collecting and managing
environmental data. FEPA's role was to act as the central node of a network
composed of line agencies who are collecting the data. During implementation, and
without consultation with the Bank, the Federal Government decided on a merger of
all the information network nodes into FEPA, thus defeating the purpose of the
network. The project also succeeded in reversing this decision and the and nodes were
returned to their original line ministries.



- 31 -
22.   Studies. Under FEPA, the only study which has been finalized, which was-
never provided in its entirety for review by the Bank, is the set of EIA guidelines.
They are to be printed before the close of the project.
23.   The other studies, namely: Industrial Pollution, Coastal Zone Strategy for the
Niger Delta - Flooding Study, Ozone-Depleting Substances Phase-out, Biodiversity
Strategy and Action Plan, Hazardous Chemical Tracking System and Legal
Framework Study are nearing completion and are to be finalized prior to the end of the
project. The Ozone-Depleting Substance Phase-Out, carried out by a US furm and
mostly funded through a grant from the Montreal Protocol, and the Biodiversity
Strategy and Action Plan, carried out by FEPA, with national and regional workshops
as input, are the only two studies which have been carried out over a long period of
time, and the World Bank has had the opportunity to review drafts. These two studies
relate to international treaties to which Nigeria is a signatory, and the completion of
these studies will put Nigeria on the cutting edge in relation to other African countries.
24.   The other studies (under para. 23 above) have had long delays and are being
completed (by local and foreign consultants) in the last month or two of the Project.
Therefore, it is unknown what impact, if any, these studies will have on the work of the
agency or the edification of the country.
25.   FORMECU was originally slated to carry out a major aerial survey study to be
funded under the credit through the Infornation Network. They carried out the Land
Use and Vegetative Change Study with a Canadian firm, a highly useful and successful
study, for which they have already had positive feedback and concrete outputs (maps,
datasets, brochures and reports).
26.   During a supervision mission in March 1997, it was agreed since FORMECU
had made so much progress, to informally allocate additional funds to it to carry out
other studies, including the Forest Reserve Management study, for which they moved
quickly and have completed studies for three out of the five states. The other states
had problems, namely one reserve was not gazetted and the other had a very slow
start. They are finalizing a study on the impact of Forestry I, a World Bank -funded
project which had closed.
27.   FDLR is still working on its long-tenn aerial survey study, with a Swedish firm,
which will be completed by the end of May. The study has already proved useful in
building up a large team of highly-trained individuals in the agency, and they are well
into the process of updating and producing land capability maps. They have also
succeeded in acquiring 1980s data to complement the 1970s and 1990s data.
28.   Water Resources completed by July 1997, with the help of a local consultant,
the Water Quality Study. The Bank found the study not to be of very high quality,
however, the Ministry was satisfied that the study met the terms of reference. The
purpose of the study is to help establish a water monitoring network, for which one
laboratory is being funded under this Project and the African Development Bank will
fund the other monitoring laboratories. There was insufficient time to carry out a
national water degradation study.



- 32 -
29.   National Planning Commission was originally slated to carry out four studies
on macroeconomic policies on the environment. Due to technical difficulties and long
delays by the Bank in approving the terms of reference, only two of the studies were
completed by credit closing.
30.   Part C. Part C was designed to support Nigerian NGOs and state agencies to
carry out feasibility studies. This component was weakened due to the following
problems: (a) inadequate guidelines for the allocation of funds to the participating
NGOs and government agencies; (b) lack of clear-cut procedures for invoicing which
led to payment delays; and (c) lack of supervision of the part C by FEPA and FMF.
Factors Affecting Project Performance
31. -Two positive factors assisted FORMECU to take the lead in project
implementation. These are; (a) familiarity with Bank implementation procedures; and
(b) autonomy. FORMECU had earlier participated in the implementation of two Bank
assisted projects (Forestry I and II) and operated separately from the normal ministry
bureaucracy.
32.   The major factors that adversely affected the project were:
- frequent leadership and institutional changes in FEPA;
* inadequate and untimely counterpart funding, FGN funding performance being 39
percent of the target and the releases of the approved amounts often coming late to
the agencies;
* centralization of the special account in FEPA which was relatively unfamiliar with
Bank procedures;
* inability of FEPA to open the special account two years into project
implementation;
* most of the agencies did not put in working phone lines during the life of the
Project, making communication difficult at best;
* infrequent meeting of the Technical Committee due to ineffective leadership and
collaboration amongst the agencies;
* lack of autonomous unit for project coordination in almost all of the agencies
(except FORMECU);
* delays in procurement and clearing of imported goods at the ports due to improper
documentation, lack of funds and lack of urgency and commitment by FEPA's
procurement unit;
* lack of supervision of the part C;
* use of consultants/coordinating consultant not familiar with the local conditions in
the states for the SEAP process;
* treating the creation of SEAPs as a product, rather than a process;
* inadequate consultations with SEPAs by the SEAP consultants;
* lack of procurement approving capacity at the Resident Mission at the early stages
of project implementation;
*  absence of a Project facilitating Team (PFT) at the beginning of the project; and
*  lack of access to special account and operating funds by some agencies for about
two years into project implementation. While the first eleven factors are subject to
the control of the Borrower and project implementing agencies the last two factors
are influenced by the Bank, the implementing agencies and the Borrower.



- 33 -
Project Outcome and Sustainability
33.   Project outcome could be regarded as marginally satisfactory. This was as a
result of FEPA's inability to assist the states and LGAs to strengthen their
environmental management capabilities as envisaged with the SEAP, laboratory
equipment, vehicles and workshops for LGAs. However, institutional strengthening of
the agencies was vigorously pursued through training, workshops, renovation of
laboratories and acquisition of vehicles, office equipment and computers.
34.   Furthermore, despite delays, the information network component of the project
did achieve its major objectives. Out of a total of 257 staff trained under the project,
more than 30 staff were trained in environment information collection and management
and GIS. Four sectoral agencies and FEPA were able to establish very sophisticated
systems of information collection, management and analysis all connected together in a
state-of-the-art system. Agencies that were miles apart in their work program and
management found out that they can work together, share information and benefit
from each other.
35.   Through the environmental information generated by the network, Nigeria
recognized the huge loss of natural resources and the fast growing degradation of its
environment. The Government is now looking seriously into measures to reverse the
degradation trends.
36.   Out of the 17 studies planned, about 13 have either been completed or are
nearing completion. From the workshops already held to discuss the findings of the
reports, many Nigerians from the academia, civil society and government departments
have been sensitized on environmental problems and management. Migeria is a leader
in Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) in the West African sub-region.
37.   This project is not likely to be sustainable if current trends continue. The lack
of strong Government commitment to the project translated into the limited support
and lack of counterpart funding, do not signal future Government support to the
program and may jeopardize the sustainability of the environment information network.
38.   The status of the majority of institutions involved in the production of resource
information obligates them to turn over any proceeds to the central treasury. This
frustrates institutions in their attempts to recover all or part of their expenses in order
to maintain or expand capacity and capabilities. An additional repercussion of this
policy has been that, in the absence of necessity to monitor real costs, few institutions
have developed costing mechanisms for their activities. This project may not be an
exemption.
39.   The sustainability of the institutions producing resource information inevitably
will be tied to their performance. The bottom line is often the quality of management.
An institution tends to attract support if it is thought to be well managed. In addition,
if its management understands and addresses the challenge of delivering sophisticated
technical services, such as resource information, it will build up a followership of loyal
users that will lobby for increased support.



- 34 -
Bank Performance:
40.   The Bank performance was satisfactory. It fielded about 12 missions from th
headquarters and six additional follow-up missions from the headquarters and the
Resident Mission and provided most of the technical support and professional advice
to the PIAs.. The frequent Bank missions provided the impetus for most of the
technical achievement since the issue of environmental information management and
GIS was completely new to the country and most of the local staff were not familiar
with the technology. The Bank initiated visits to the states on SEAP and part C.
Moving most of the management issues to the Resident mission in Abuja during the
last two years, helped greatly in speeding the implementation. However, the main
drawback was the fact that the team was initially Washington-based, which slowed
down communications in the Project, exacerbated by the poor communications systen'
in Nigeria.
Borrower Performance:
41.   The performance of the Borrower was not satisfactory when viewed against th
timetable for the Project, the slow and late disbursement of Project funds and the slow
implementation despite two years' extension. The performance of all PIAs in the
implementation of this project is not dissimilar from the general performance of
Nigerian agencies implementing other Bank-supported projects. Although most of the
staff involved in the project showed high degree of enthusiasm and commitment to the
project, there were many implementation issues that are directly related to the general
economic problems of the country which were not in their hands to solve. For
instance, it is not acceptable to have 47 vehicles in the port for more than 18 months
awaiting customs clearance, which was in part a result of FEPA's procurement
officer's unwillingness to delegate tasks. Also, despite the knowledge that the Project
was due to close at the end of March, FEPA did not move quickly to complete its
remaining procurement and neither the coordinating consultant nor the consulting
firms involved worked to complete the SEAPs in a timely and methodical fashion.
Future Operations and Key Lessons:
42.   At the time of project closure, some of the major objectives of the project
would have been achieved. All the PLAs would have been fully equipped with regard
to office and field equipment and vehicles; staff would have been trained and capacities
would have been developed. During the operational phase (see operational plan
attached), the PIAs should be able to:
*  continue data acquisition and update and improve their data collection and
management capabilities;
* establish field monitoring centers related to the various environmental problems in
the different ecological zones;
* be able to exchange information freely among the nodes;
.  advise Government on regular basis about the major environmental problem; and



- 35 -
* monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the programs aimed at addressing these
problems.
43.   Needless to say, the beginning point in the operational plan is to further
develop, expand and sustain the network and its activities and in establishing a
dialogue among the information producers, and also between the producers and the
users in order to determine the parameters of the network. It should also be in order
for the network to consider strengthening the various capacities in some of the
network agencies to make their information compatible within the network.
44.   As part of the institutional strengthening exercise, FEPA was to help strengthen
the burgeoning State Environmental Protection agencies. To do this, FEPA hired a
coordinating consultant and consulting firms to carry out a process to create State
environmental action plans for each state. The key lesson learned is that the process
was overly centralized, inadequately supervised, and significantly hamnpered by delays
in payments by FEPA to the consulting firms carrying out the process. The lack of key
involvement of the State agencies and the use of a lead consultant from outside the
state meant major errors and gross generalities in the draft documents. SEPAs, in
order to be truly strengthened, should have had the power to choose, supervise and
pay any consultants used as facilitators in the process. The performance of the
coordinating consultant and consulting firms was less than satisfactory, and they
should receive a pro-rated fee.
45.   Concerning Part C, it was clear that the pre-financing requirements for these
organizations was a major hindrance as they have very few resources. It was difficult
for them to carry out work begun almost two years ago, when the payments were so
slow in coming (in some cases, more than 10 months passed from the time of the
invoice to the actual payment). Payments need to be expedited on a regular basis. One
of the problems in this was the fact that government bureaucrats and World Bank
officials overseeing this component operate on a completely different basis from the
NGOs, and have difficulty relating to an organization with such limited resources
(financial and personnel), as well as completely different mandate and modality from
government.
46.   Having only one special account at the central node for the use of all the
agencies was a major set back in implementation. The design that placed a key
responsibility on FEPA and FMF did not take cognizance of inherent institutional and
executive bureaucracy in such government institutions. Also, creating a sernii
autonomous implementation body could assist in speedy decision making and less
bureaucracy, and better implementation performance.
47.   Because of the difficulty in communications, and the need for intense
supervision of a project this complex, an environmental officer based in the country
would be better placed to help facilitate the project. Many of the problems could have
been avoided this way.
48.   Autonomous units within each agency, with the ability to take decisions to
implement the Project would aid enormously in the efficient implementation of the
Project.



- 36 -
49.   The Bank's usual measure of performance, economic rate of return, does not
apply to this Project. More importantly, rate of disbursement does not indicate success
in a Project as complex as environmental management.
Next Actions
50.   The following are the proposals for the delivery of the ICR:
04/17198          Send aide-memoire to Borrower
04/30/98          Borrower's workshop on aide-memoire
06/30/98          Draft ICR completed (by both Borrower and Bank)
07/15/98          Draft ICR exchange
08/31/98          Borrower contribution received
09/26/98          Gray Cover
10/30/98          Send final ICR to Borrower.
In Abuja
April 17, 1998
ele ilebani (For the Mission)



Annex
NIGERIA: ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
OPERATIONAI, I'LAN (APRIL 1998 - DECEMBER 2000)
S/NO.       AGENCY                                 ITEM                      IJNIT                       PH1 YSICAL TARGHTS                   FINANCIAI, RESOURCES               l'OTAI
RlQUIRPI) (NAIRA MILLION)          (=N-M)
_________  ____________________________________ _ _  ____________  1998  1999           2000              199S     1999       2000
Federal             Apolication of Fund-                         No.            3                 5                              12         20                      32
Environment         Completion otEnvironmental Awuencss
Protedion Agency    Workshop for LGAs (Only 2 Zones compicied)
(FEPA)
Part 'C' Projects completion perfotmance/    No.            15               30              30              20         120        120          260
appraisal workshop
Community based projects on Environmnentally  No.           60               70              80              100        140        160          400
Sustainable Development
- EIA Implementation Workshop                No.            I                                                2.S        -                       2.5
. Development of tte EIA Guidelines          No.            I                2                               2.0        4.0                     6.0
- Specialized EIA Training                   No.            6                14                              6.88       16.06                   22.95
- EIA Awareness Woashop                      No.                             5                                          22.5                    22.5
* ETA MonitoringlMaagement Equipment         No.                                                             0. In      26        2.7           28.8
-Development of EIA Registry (F-EPA          No.            I                                                2.40                               2.4
Headquarters).                                    _.I.
State gvyirollmental Actism Plan fH&)
- Completion of SEAP Preparation in 5 State  No             On going                                         25                                 25.00
- Workshop for S6AP Implementation           No             4                                                I aS-                              I S
-SEAP Project Preparation                    No                              -                               200        100        100          400.00
iunyigrncntal AwW    &ama .wu               No.            Pmocurcllent of    H'nvron.                      25           0 Oo 50
- Procurement of EA materials & Equipment                   EA Materials &    mental
-Implementation of KA activities                           liquipment        Awareness
Activities
Training for SEPA and FEPA                   No.            Training of 37   Training of 37   Training of    30         30         30           90
Environmental Scientist/Engineers                           SEPA & 12        SEPA & 12       37 SEPA &
(Local & Overseas)                                          FEPA Scientists   FEPA            I2 FEPA
Scientists      Scientists
Operationalization of the DMI IJnit                         In-house                                         10          15        15           40
training for
installed
___ ___ ______ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __ ___ _                 e uip ent      ___ __ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __    __equip m ent___              __



SINO.        FEPA                 ITEM                                          UNIT                         PIIYSICAI TARGETS                     FINANCIAL RESOURCES                 TOTAL
REQUIRED (NAIRA MILLION)            (-N M)
1998               1999            2000           1998       1999       2000
-Supply and Installation of Library Equipment  No             FEPA I IQtrs      4 FEPA Zonal   4 FEPA            to         20         20            50
and Books for FEPA Zonal Offices                                                ofrices         Zonal Offices
-Construction of Laboratory Complexes and     No              Pon ilarcourt     Kano                            25          25                       50
fwunishing
Hazardous Waste Legal and Regulatory          No.             Collcction of     Legislative                      10         5                        15
Framework                                                     Baselinc          Rcview
infornation       National
Workshop
-National Waste Management Strategy and       No.             Feasibility       Construction                    I10         60                       70
Action PJan & Demonstration in FCT. Abuja                     Studies and       of demon.
Development of   stration
Stratcgy         landficid in
Abuja
Endangered Species Rchabilitation Plan        No.             Re-Evaluate       Review          Commence         10         5          25           40
status of        Indangered       captive
Animals &        species decree    breeding
Plants Species    in line with
current field
data threats &
pressure
de'signate
centres
-Coastal/Marine Biodiversity Management Plan  No              Inventorization   Designation of   Opcration.-    5           20         20           4 5
& Chsaracter-     offshore/nears   lisation on
sation of        hore/coastal     management
Coastal/          protected Area   plans
Marine           Management
Iliodersity       Plans for
designated
areas
Integrated Protected Area System Initiative   No              Inventori-zation    Designation of   Consolidation    5       2.5        2.5           10
&                 protected       , Lcgistlation
Characterisation   Inland Aquatic   and
of Inland         Ecosytems to    Management
Aquatic          address gaps     ofdesignated
Ecosytems                         acquatic
_contyms



S/N           FEPA                                       ITEM                          UNIT                         PIIYSICAL TARGETS                      FINANCIAL RESOUPRCES                     lOTAI
REQUIRED (NAIRA MILLION)                 (=N=M)
1998                 1999             2000       1998         1.999           2000
-Inland Aquatic Ecosystem Management Plan         No               Inventori-zation    Pesignation of   Consolidat   5              S           20              30
& characteri-      protected         ion.
zation of Inland    Inland Aquatic    Legistatio
Acquatic           Ecosystems to    n and
Ecosystens         address gaps      Managem
ent of
desig.
nated
acuatic
eco-
systems
-Evaluation of Impacted & areas of the oil        No.              Field                                               10           10          10              40
producing areas of the Niger Delta.                                Assessment
-Water Quality Monitoring Water Quality for       No.                                                                 20            10          10              10
trends. fliues, baseline studies in selected sites
in Nigeria
-Air Quality Monitoring                           No.                                                                 20            S           S               30
-Solid Waste Magement Studies in the Niger                         Inventori-sation                                    10           20          10              40
State and Pilot Sanitary lanfill in Por lIarcourt                  and cate-
gorization of
waste
Evaluation of inpacted & potentially impacted     No.              Invento-rization                                    10           20          10              40
area of the oil producing areas of the Niger                       and asessment
Delta
Training                                          No.                                                   Training       10           10          10              30
of State
staff in
FEPA
Lb ___ _I.b_               r
TOTAL                                                                                                                                        633.U         751.10      620.20          2.0 1.15
D. SlJB5sLQF NN                                                                                                     633.88        751.10      620.20          2,010.15
*  Federal Grant
2.            FORMECU               A. Aumieston of F-nds                              No.              6                  6                 6             O..6          1.02        1.25            3.23
Estabblshment of field monitoring entcers in size
Ecologla Zones
Collcetion ofothes thet nai and 4cologicat data   No. of States    37                 37                37             1.92         2.25        2.50            6.67
-Establihsmnent of a Forsry nd V anduse database for    No.        I                  I                 I             2.04          2.07        1.35            5.4d
Nigeas
-Installation, emmi dosinsdofolSt                 No.              I                   I                 I            0.t0          0.12        0.t0            0.32
HIS equipmont "stated by . GIS exp90d
-Ue of hand htd mdkomnsta rnd  PS for meaustins   NorstSlaes       12                  12               12            taH           1.73        1.50            5.10
ulls sudce. speeba uef,ctra
-Assembly of additional ewnnat aerospace data     sheets           33                  33                34            t.s5         L.30        1.95            5 60
-Frepratleln a varlei Ihbeatk maps                No.              6                  6                 6              0.65         0.65        0.91t           2.10
-Sab   umaps and ether LUV products               No.              1.000               I,000             I,000         -                                        1 .85
-Establith eeaand puaib eofeaNatta   Ferestry    No.               I                   I                 I             0.50         0.60        0.75            1.50
and Envlromeubtt lnfrmatom Imttortng canter
.Exehanga of data Wilk the contrea and other       el                                                                  0.50         O.So        0.50            150
sedoral nodes throwib a slajems network          __
TOTAI.                                                                                                                                        1 0.37       10.76       la.70           398



S/N         FORMECU                              ITEM                      UNIT                       PIIYSICAL TARGETS                   FINANCIAL RESOURCES              TOTAL
REQUIRED (NAIRA MILLION)         (=N M)
___________________   ______________________________    _9___  0      _   _        1998            1999           2000       1899       1999          2000
B. SOURCES OF Fll)
- FON GRANT                                                                                               10.00     10.00     10 00        30.00
- INTERNALLY GENERATllD                                                                                  0.37       0.76      0.70         1.t5
______ __ -REVENUE
3.          LAND                A. APPLI&TIQ   DF QEEINIS
IRESOURCES         - Dcvelopment of Soil Test Sites            No.            5                                                                   -            -
(FMNAR)             -Acquisition of Aerospace data             No.            .                .
Revision of Soil Degradation Maps          No                                             .                         .
-Equipment and Laboratory items            No.            I                               I
-Commissioning of Soil Monitoring Sitcs.
followed by on.the-job-trsining            No                     I                       I
-Training                                  No.            4                3              3
Establishment of Soil Databank             No.            I                      ._.
B. SOURCES OF FUD:
-Federal Grant                                                                                           10.00      20.00     30,00        60C00
-Intemally Generated Revenue                                                                             0.20       0.40      0.60         1.20
4           NATIONAL            A. APICATION OF FUNS                                                                                                                                  o
PLANNING
COMMISSION         -Studies                                    No.                             I                             6.60       6.60                   13.20
(NPC)               -Training                                  No.            I                2                             1.00       2.00                   3.00
-Dissemination Workshops                   No.            I                I                             3.50       3.50                   7.00
-Endangered Species Rehabilitation Plan
-Mainstrearning Environmental Assessment into                                             6.80           6.80       6.80      3.40         17.00
Public Sector
-Ineoeporaing Enviromental Factors into the                                               3.30           3.30       3.30      3.40         10.00
system of National Accounts.
-Operating Expenses                                                                       1.00            1.00      1.00      1.00         3.00
TOTAL                                _        _   _                                                                          22.20      23.20     7.80         53.20
3. SOURCES OF FUNDS
*FGN GRANTS                                                                               .              22.20      23.20     16.60        62.00



SiN       WAtER                          ITh-M                  UNt T                  PhYSICAL. TARG1LTS            FINANCIAL RESOURCES           rroAi.
5         RESOURCES                                                                                                   REQUIRED (NAIRA MILLION)    (-N -M)
_______  1998         1999        2000     1998      1999        2000
A. APPLICATION OF lUND)S
- Installation conumiaioning and training    No.  I                                       0.30      3.00    0.40       3.70
on GIS/EIS equipment
Laboratory equipment installation and  No.        5                                       6.90      1.30               8.20
procurement of vedicles
-Water Durability Network            Nalionwile   -                                                 0 (26    0.26      0.52
-Training                            No.                        10            5                     0.14    0.10       0.24
-_______  -_____________    *Recurrent Cost                                                                            _   5.00     5.00       10.00
B. Sources of fund
-Federal Grant                                                                            4.00      6.40    5.42        15.82
-AFDB Loan                                        -             -                         7.6       3.30    0.34        11.24
6         FEDERAL          A. APPLICATION OF FUNDS
MINISTRY OF    - Monitoring of ongoing Part'C" projects    No. of  15            15           2.00         2.00      2.00    3.00       7.00
FINANCE                                               NGOs
(FMF)
-Coordination of GIS activities of all
patticipating agencies                         _                                          1.00      1.00    2.00       4.00
D. SOURCES OF FUNDS
-Federal Grant                                                                            3.00      3.00    5.00        11.00
Africa Region
C:\WINWORDU)OC\AIDEMEMOUCRTABS.DOC
April 16. 1998 5:44 PM



APPENDIX II
- 42 -
BORROWER'S
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT [ICR]
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
[EMP: Credit 2353-UNI]
SEPTEMBER 1998.



- 43 -
1.0 INTRODUCTION
The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) signed a credit agreement with the
International Development Association (IDA) in April 1992 for carrying out an
Environmental Management Project, (EMP) Credit No.2353 UNI for a total amount of
U.S.$ 25 million. This amount was part of the financing for the EMP which was
designed to be implemented over a 4-year period, at an estimated total cost of U.S. $37.9
million. In accordance with the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the project became
effective on March 18, 1993 with a closing date of March 31, 1996. Seven agencies of
the FGN were involved in the implementation of the project, namely: The Federal
Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA); Forestry Management, Evaluation and Co-
ordinating Unit  (FORMECU) of the Federal Department of  Forestry; Federal
Department of Agricultural Land Resources; Federal Ministry of Water Resources;
Federal Ministry of Finance; National Planning Commission; and the Ecological Funds
Office.
As a result of delayed take-off and start-up by most implementing agencies, due mainly to
lack of experience in implementing World Bank Assisted Project, very little had been
achieved by the time the credit was due to close in March 1996. The credit had to be
extended twice with a final closing date of March 31, 1998.
1.1   Background
The pattern of Nigeria's economic development and the rapid population increase
r-esulted in substantial pollution and natural resources degradation. By the end of the
1980s, these environmental problems had reached the stage where they became visible
and matters of urgent national concern.
In response to a request from FGN, the Bank in 1990 prepared an environmental sector
report titled "Towards the Development of an Environmental Action Plan for Nigeria"
which identified the priority environmental concerns of the country, as soil degradation,
water contamination and deforestation. Possible lines of action to address these problems
were suggested in the report.  The EMP constituted the first major step towards
addressing these environmental issues.
1.2   Project Obiectives/Description
The objectives of the project were:
a.    To strengthen Nigerian environmental organisations, and to assist them in
implementing their programs
b.    To establish a program of data collection that enables the government to measure
levels of environmental degradation, and to be aware of environmental trends over
time; and



- 44 -
c.    To complete a series of sector investigations and feasibility studies leading to
soundly conceived programs, including capital investments, necessary to redress
the prevailing degradation.
In a broader sense, the project's objective is to create an effective environmental program
at the national and state levels that integrates environmental activities on an inter-sectoral
and inter-regional basis.
By description, the project is composed of three major components, namely:-
i.    Institutional strengthening - through support of FEPA, EF, NPC, FMF and State
Environmental Protection Agencies (SEPAs) through FEPA in carrying out the
design,  implementation,  monitoring  and  enforcement  of  appropriate
environmental incentive systems and supplies, and regulations through the
provision of technical assistance, training, office equipment and supplies, and
studies regarding environmental conditions and economic incentives for
environmentally beneficial activities. Assistance to states was to put primary
emphasis on institutional building, training and the development of SEAPs. The
cost of this component was estimated at about US$18.29 million or 48.2 percent
of the total project cost;
ii.    Environmental information network - through support for the establishment of a
data collection system and information network necessary for monitoring
environmental trends throughout the country. Support was to include technical
assistance, training, laboratory and computer equipment, incremental recurrent
costs, and the cost of aerial surveys and satellite imagery. The cost of this
component was estimated at US$13.0 million or 34.3 percent of the total project
cost; and
iii.   Studies component - intended for the identification of specific investment projects
critical for alleviating environmental degradation, as well as feasibility studies for
projects where implementation is to be carried out by government agencies.
Specific studies targeted were: industrial pollution, Lagos Lagoon pollution,
hazardous wastes disposal for the city of Lagos, and the management of the
National Parks. This component was expected to cost US$6.61 million or 17.5
percent of the total project cost.
In addition to the above, there was another component (Specific Investment Studies)
which was designed to assist some Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and other
government agencies (not directly involved in project implementation) to carry out some
studies, and mitigating actions on environmental degradation.



- 45 -
2.0   IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECT SUB-COMPONENTS
The Environmental Management Project (EMP) in Nigeria comprises seven participating
agencies or nodes, namely: FEPA, FORMECU, FDALR, FMWR, FMF, NPC and EFO.
The four sectoral nodes which were involved in the establishment of an Environmental
Information Systems Network are: FEPA (Central Node), Forestry, Land Resources and
Water Resources.
2.1 Project Implementation:
The project was administered by each participating agency on a decentralised
arrangement, with financing provided to them on a grant basis. All the agencies were
fully made aware of World Bank guidelines for procurement and auditing procedures.
The project was to be implemented over a three-year period after credit effectiveness on
March 13, 1993., with a closing date of March 31, 1996. Implementation did not begin
until July 1993 because of reasons ranging from delay in the opening of the project
special account, to lack of experience in operating World Bank assisted project by most
of the implementing agencies, frequent leadership and institutional changes in the
Central Node delayed reimbursement to the nodes.
The overall responsibility for co-ordination of implementation was with FEPA, while
each implementation agency had an implementation unit headed by a Project Co-
ordinator. A technical committee with membership drawn from each node was to provide
technical guidance and was required to meet regularly. The credit was extended twice
and the project finally closed on March 31, 1998.
The Central Node, FEPA, co-ordinated the Technical Committee which was to meet
frequently but met only three times during the project implementation. FEPA arranged
two workshops on the concept and management of Environmental Information Systems
Network, and on the use of GIS in Environmental Management. Similarly, FORMECU
held a workshop on the legend to be adopted for the revision of the Landuse and
Vegetation Map of Nigeria, and also held National Review Workshop on the outcome of
the Landuse and Vegetation Assessment.
The outcome of the LUV study showed rapidly decreasing forest in the country as a result
of deforestation. This necessitated the Bank's funding of the Forest Reserve Management
aimed as a pilot study for participatory management, covering five natural forest reserves
in five states located in different ecological zones of the country, for which an additional
fund was allocated in March, 1997. They are:
i.    Wuda Taye Forest Reserve in Bomo State - Sudan Savanna
ii.    Kpashimi Forest Reserve in Niger State - Guinea Savanna
iii. Ehor Forest Reserve in Edo State - Tropical Moist Rain Forest
iv.   Omo Forest Reserve in Ogun State - Tropical Dry Rain Forest
v.    Taylor creek Forest Reserve in Bayelsa State - Mangrove Forest



- 46 -
The five Forest Reserves were to be resurveyed, beaconed and inventory
carried out with Forest Management Plan prepared for each of them.
The Federal Department of Agricultural Land Resources (FDALR) established its
project office in Kaduna where most of the project activities were undertaken.
This node carried out the land degradation study using a Swedish firm of
consultants.  The delay in obtaining necessary satellite data delayed the
completion of the study beyond the March 31, 1998 closing date.
The Federal Ministry of Water Resources node was expected to undertake the
water quality study as well as set up a GIS laboratory. Structural re-arrangement
of the project during the project life saw the National Institute of Water
Resources, Kaduna handling the establishment of the laboratory through a
consultant who failed to meet the deadline.
The Federal Ministry of Finance, FMF, played a coordinating role for all the PIAs
in terms of the financial transactions on the project. The Multilateral Institutions
Department appointed project staff to handle all these transactions as well as
implementing the component of the project in the Ministry.
The component handled by the Ecological Funds Office (EFO) was a
comparatively small one mainly manpower training and procurement of a set of
computers.
The National Planning Commission concerned itself mainly with some studies
and staff training.
3.0  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVE
Achievement of project objective is based on the three key implementation
indicators stated in the SAR as follows:
i.   Institutional strengthening of project organisation.
ii.   Establishment of Environmental System Network.
iii.   Studies
3.1   INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF PROJECT ORGANISATIONS
3.1.1  Central Node at FEPA
This sub-component can be adjudged successful as most targets scored high
percentages of achievement at the close of the credit (Table 1 ). Out of 85
participants slated for overseas courses, 63 were undertaken representing 74.1 %
achievement; while only 100 out of 396 participants targeted were trained locally
thus representing 25.25% achievement , 47 vehicles, 14 motor cycles and 10
bicycles were procured accordingly. Also 239 pieces of office equipment (lump)
were procured.



- 47 -
FEPA established regional offices, improved communication and support for the
States, with linkages established in 12 Universities in specialised concerns which
include training and workshop programmes.
Public awareness on environmental matters through the media, workshops and
other disseminating outlets received a great attention. Also awareness was created
especially amongst industries on regulation of pollutions. FEPA provided
technical assistance to each of the 36 States and the Federal Capital Territory and
25 State Environmental Protection Agencies (SEPAs) were established. The
SEPAs provided technical guidance in addressing environmental problems at
State levels.  Technical assistance and capacity building in support and
development of various States Environmental Action Plans was initiated.
Nevertheless, by the close of the credit, FEPA was able to deliver the required
vehicles and laboratory equipment to the State Environmental Protection Agencies
(SEPAs).
3.1.2 Sectoral Node at FORMECU
The Forestry Sectoral node in FORMECU created awareness on deforestation and
landuse changes through seminars, workshops, exhibitions, and video
documentary were produced. A well documented brochure on the facilities and
capabilities for Forestry and Environmental Management was produced.
Communities were sensitized towards participatory management of forest
reserves, and seminars were held in this regard in two reserve states. FORMECU
as a Unit has the capacity and has developed the capability of digitizing and
producing maps for clients.
Field survey equipment for inventory and extension services were procured
specifically for the Forest Reserve Management sub-component.
A high percentage of success was recorded on this sub-component in FORMECU
sectoral node as shown in Table 1. There was a 100 % achievement in staff
training both locally and abroad. 16 and 21 project officials were trained locally
and overseas respectively. Thirteen (13) vehicles, fifteen (15) bicycles, and six (6)
motorcycles were procured while 60 pieces of office equipment (lump) were
acquired.
The Remote Sensing/GIS equipment have been delivered to the Unit and installed.
The GIS laboratory is now fully operational.
3.1.3  Sectoral Node at FDALR
There was a 100% achievement in staff training both abroad and locally. Three
different courses were attended by project officials locally while twelve project
staff attended different courses abroad. With this, the capacity of the department
has been strengthened and awareness created on soil and land degradation. All the
five vehicles targeted were procured. Also, all the targeted office and field



- 48 -
equipment were procured for the execution of the project. The Remote Sensing
and GIS equipment have been supplied, and installed at their Kaduna Office.
3.1.4 Sectoral Node at FMWR
In this node, 7 officials were trained out of 12 targeted both locally and abroad. In
addition, 2 vehicles were procured as per SAR while 12 pieces of various
equipment were procured out of 20 targeted.
3.1.5  Sectoral Node at FMF
Sixteen (16) officers were trained abroad. Also five vehicles, six (6) motorcycles,
five (5) computers and their accessories were procured. The capacity of the
department was strengthened and staff now better appreciate the need for
resources mobilisation towards environmental conservation.
3.1.6  Sectoral Node at EFO
Five (5) project officers were trained abroad. One vehicle and two (2) computer
units were also procured.
3.1.7. Sectoral Node at NPC
Four (4) officials out of five (5) targeted were trained abroad. One 4-wheel drive
Toyota vehicle was purchased.
3.2.  ESTABLISHMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION SYSTEM
NETWORK
The main objective of the EMP in Nigeria is to establish an environmental
information system network to monitor future trends in the different sectors.
3.2.1  Central Node at FEPA
FEPA established a data management and information unit and through
workshops and consulting led and coordinated the work being done in the sectoral
nodes. Fifty-nine (59) officers of the Unit were trained locally out of 150 targeted
while 5 were trained abroad out of 6 targeted.
Through the Central node the following were achieved:-
i.   the creation of environmental information network amongst the three
sectoral nodes at Forestry, Land Resources and Water Resources.
ii.   coastal zone management plan, including data base on flooding studies
iii.   environmental training awareness and education strategies.
3.2.2  Sectoral Node at FORMECU
The following achievements were made at the FORMECU sectoral node:
i.    Establishment of an Environmental Information System (EIS) as part of
the National Environmental Information Network for the generation of



- 49 -
credible up-to-date data on Forestry and Vegetation degradation and
Changes.
ii.   Establishment of six Field Monitoring Centers in the different ecological
(Okitipupa, Kwale, Enugu, Mokwa, Zaria and Gubio) zones of the
country.
iii.   Setting up  of a modem Remote Sensing and Geographic Information
System (GIS) Laboratory, equipped with computer based accessories at
the Abuja headquarter buildings of FORMECU.
3.2.3  Sectoral Node at FDALR
At the Federal Department of Agricultural Land Resources Sectoral Node, based
in Kaduna, it is equipped with Geographic Information System (GIS) facility. The
node has established an Environmental Information System with specific focus on
land and soil degradation as part of the National Environmental Information
Network.
3.2.4 Sectoral Node at FMWR
Administrative bureaucracy and lack of experience in Bank's procedures delayed
the early take off of activities at the Sectoral Node, to the extent that at the close
of the Bank's funding, most contractual agreements have not been fully executed.
It is envisaged that the node continues execution of its mandate at the operational
phase, as it is relying upon the National Water Resources Master Plan for. its
baseline data in the mapping of water sample characteristics. The supply of
laboratory equipment, vehicles and the installation of GIS equipment was
abandoned for lack of seriousness from the supplier.
3.3   STUDIES
3.3.1  Central Node at FEPA
This component is divided into two sub-components - feasibility studies and
specific investment studies i.e. Part (C) - Appendix II.
3.3.1.1 Feasibility Studies
Ten feasibility studies were carried out, two of which were not completed. Those
completed include:
i.    Hazardous Chemical Tracking System in Nigeria.
ii.    National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
iii.  Industrial Pollution Policy and Management Study..
iv.   Industrial Pollution Inventory Study
v.    Country study on the phase out of Ozone Depleting substance (ODS)
vi.   Development of the Legal Framework and Guidelines on Response,
Compensation and liability for Environmental Damages in Nigeria.
vii.  Flooding study of the Niger Delta.
viii.  Production of EIA Guidelines for five (5) sectors.
The details are shown in Appendix I (a).



- 50 -
The following two studies could not be implemented:
i.    Hazardous Waste Disposal Study
ii.   Environmental Education and Public Awareness
In line with the development of the State Environmental Protection Agencies
(SEPAs), FEPA conducted a two-day workshop on environmental awareness in
two zones, comprising 10 States and about 200 Local Government Areas
participants included State Forestry Personnel, Local Government staff, State
Environmental Protection Agency staff and FEPA staff. In addition, FEPA
rendered technical assistance to the States on the preparation of State
Environmental Action Plan.
3.3.1.2 Specific Investment Studies (i.e. Part C)
Fifteen studies were undertaken in Part C, however two of which were at various
stages of completion. The details are presented in the Appendix II.
3.3.2  Sectoral Node at FORMECU
The major study was the revision of the 1976/78 Land Use and Vegetation (LUV)
map. It involved the assessment of the changes in LUV in Nigeria between 1978
and 1995 by Satellite Remote Sensing. The study was successfully undertaken,
resulting in the production of LUV maps in hard copy and digital formats, as
well as production of change analysis maps from National Oceanic Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA) data at four-yearly interval between 1976178 to 1993/95.
In addition the following studies were undertaken as part of the development of
strategy for participatory management at Forest Reserves Study inWuda Taye,
Kpashimi and Omo in Borno, Niger and Ogun States respectively viz:
a. Socio-economic survey
b. A study on the Role of Community Participation in Forest Management
c. Agroforestry Models for Communities Adjacent to the Reserves.
d. Non Timber Forest Products (NTFP)
e. Community participation in Forest Reserve Management.
f. Marketing and Utilization of Forest products.
Reports on these studies were reviewed at stakeholders workshop held in each
State.
3.3.3  Sectoral Node at FDALR
The major study was the assessment of soil degradation in Nigeria. This involves
the study of extent, rate and trend of soil degradation by satellite remote sensing.
Due to delay in implementation, the bank granted three months extension. The
study terminated by the end of June and would result in the production of maps
both in hard copy and digital format.



- 51 -
3.3.4 Sectoral Node at FMWR
The following studies were undertaken at the FMWR node:
i.    Establishment of Water Quality Monitoring Network.
ii.   System Design for Environmental Management Information Network. A
third study of Natural Water Degradation could not be completed due to
time constraint.
3.3.5  Sectoral Node at NPC
The following studies were implemented at the NPC node:
i.   Impact of Fertilizer pricing policy on the Environment In Nigeria.
ii.   Impact of Petroleum Pricing Policy on the Environment In Nigeria.
iii.  Impact of Exchange Rate Policy on the Environment.
iv.   Impact of Forest Policy on the Environment.
3.3.6  Sectoral Node at FMF
Major activity undertaken is the auditing of project accounts for 1995, 1996 and
1997.
4.0   FUNDING
The credit facilities were bilateral, that is, between FGN and the World Bank.
The project funding is categorised into four, namely: Project financing, project
cost, loan/credit disbursement and counterpart funding.
4.1.  Proiect Financing
FGN, IDA, ODA, EEC, UNDP and the Montreal Protocol Interim Fund (MPIF)
were expected to finance the project with the sum of $M37.90 but only $M15.57
was actualised. However, during the project implementation, ODA and EEC did
not actuialise their expected contribution of $3m and $1m respectively (see Table
V). Only MPIF and IDA made commendable contribution of 60.5% and 55.32%
of their expected funding respectively as shown in Table V. The poor funding
from other donors affected the Coastal Zone and Marine Environmental Study and
Lagos Lagoon Pollution Control Study.
4.2   Project Cost
The total appraised project cost is $37.90 million comprising foreign cost of
$29.90 million or 78.80% and local cost of $8 million or 21.11%. The Main
components of the total appraised project cost are institutional strengthening,
Information Network, and Studies. Institutional Strengthening formed the highest
percentage of 45.33% of total appraised project costs.



-52-
As at 31:03:98 only the sum of $25.12m out of the appraised estimated costs of
$37.90m was incurred on the project. The actual cost of $25.12m formed about
66.28% of total appraised cost.
Out of the total appraisal cost of $17.18m expected to be incurred on Institutional
Strengthening the sum of $16.12m or 93.83% was spent. The sum of $7.94m out
of the expected $11.89 million was spent on Information Network. The pace of
study implementation was slow. Studies component formed only 15.09% of
appraised estimate. The $.23m incurred as contingencies represents amount spent
on "Part C" of the Project by FEPA.
The summary of the Project cost is contained in Table IV.
4.3   Loan/Credit Disbursement
During the project implementation, only the sum of $13.83m or 55.32% was
disbursed out of the expected credit amount of $25m, leaving a balance of $11.17
or 44.68%. The details are shown in table m. The likely reasons for low
disbursement despite two years extension are:
(i.)  late take-off
(ii.) lack of experience in implementing World Bank Projects by some agencies
(iii.) low level counterpart funding; and
(iv.) delay in effectiveness of the special account operated by FEPA.
4.4   Counterart Funding
Out of the expected FGN contribution of about $5.7m, only the sum of $1.34 or
23.50% was achieved for the entire project covering FEPA, NPC, EFO, FMF,
FORMECU, FMALR and FMWR. The FMF got the highest disbursement of
60% while FORMECU had the least of 14.12%. (For more details, see table 11).
The performance for FMF may not be unconnected to their involvement.
5.0 CONSTRAINTS:
The major factors that adversely affected project implementation are as follows:-
i.    Delay in project take-off due to lack of experience by some agencies in
implementing World Bank assisted projects and administrative bureaucracy.
ii.    Delay in the opening and operation of the special account and the lack of access to
the special account by the other PIAs.
iii.   The turn-around time between the Bank and the PLAs in attending to issues at the
initial stage of the project caused tremendous delays.



- 53 -
iv.   Management instability and institutional changes in the central node at FEPA
adversely affected performance in the other nodes. For instance, there were four
Directors-General of FEPA between 1994 and 1998 resulting in delays in taking
vital management decisions.
v.    Temporary  transfer of the Environmental Information  System  Network
Component of the project from the sectoral nodes to central node between mid
1993 to early 1994 caused some delay in project implementation
vi.   Irregular meeting of the Technical Committee which was meant to provide
guidelines on all aspects of equipment specifications and compatibility.
vii.   Funding from FGN was inadequate and irregular. FGN funding performance was
39 per cent of the target and the releases of the approved amounts to the PlAs
came late.
viii.  Most of the PIAs lacked autonomy thereby subjecting major decisions to
governmental administratiave bottle necks and bureaucracies.
ix.   Many of the project implementing agencies were not fully equipped (in terms- of
human, material and technical capability) to handle the highly specialised issues
involved in EMP implementation.
x.    The delay and difficulty in securing duty waiver from FGN, and non-exemption
from VAT further placed pressure on already poor counterpart fund.
xi.   The instability of the exchange rate of the U.S.$ to the local currency (1992 $1.00
=N22 and 1997 $1.00 = N85) adversely increased the local funds required to draw
down on the credit.
6.0 KEY LESSONS LEARNT
The following key lessons emerged from the implementation of the EMP from the
Borrowers point of view:
i.    The multi-sectoral approach to the planning and implementation of the EMP is a
welcome development. This approach enables Government to have a full picture
of the environmental problems in Nigeria thereby ensuring its commitment to
solving them.
ii.   Project implementation should start as soon as all the covenants are in place. The
situation of starting project implementation a year after signing the loan agreement
is a factor of delay.



- 54 -
iii.   Bureaucratic processes of the Ministry caused delays in some of the nodes. There
is therefore the need to ensure the autonomy of the implementing agencies for
better results.
iv.   Counterpart funding should be properly secured in future projects possibly by
deducting at source and ensuring that at least one year's counterpart requirement
is provided in advance at project take-off.
v.    Establishment of an Environmental Trust Fund would be a veritable source of
funding Environmental Projects.
vi.   World Bank Missions should always include representatives of the PIAs each time
they visit the nodes.
vii.  In order to maximise the benefits from staff training and development, the
procurement and installation of equipment to be used by these staff should be in
place before the commencement of such training..
viii. Centralization of funds at the central node slowed down disbursements.
ix.   There is need to integrate Environmental Monitoring and Management into
National Action Plans.



- 55 -
TABLE 1: STATISTICS ON IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS*
EFO         FEPA         FDLR       FMF          FMWR         FORMECU    NPC
Implementing Agencies      Tar. Ach    Tar. Ach.   Tar. Ach    Tar. Ach    Tar. Ach    Tar. Ach    Tar Ach
1.  Inst, Strengthening
(i)     Staff Training
- Local            -    -    396   100   3   3          -    -      -     15    15    15    -         -
- Overseas               5     5    85      63   12  12    16    16    9         9    27    27    5        4
(ii)    Vehicles
- Vehicles             1   1      44    57   5   5        5      5     4      4     7      13    1       1
- Motorcycles                       8    14   -   -       -      6     -      -     2       2    -       -
- Bicycle                          10    10   -   -       -      -     -      -     -            -       -
(iii)   Office Equipment
(LUMP)              2   2       196   239   27  27    5       5      36    36    47    60    -         4
- Lab Equipment                  -    -      -    -           -     -      98    -      -      -    -        -
(iv)    SEPA
Vehicles                           22     31
2.  Environmental
Information System
(i)     Training
-   Local                         150    59
-   Overseas                        6     5                            .
(ii) Work station                         -    42
3. Studies              X         -       8     6 1       4          -3             -       7   7      4        3
FEPA       - Federal Environmental Protection Agency
FORMECU - Forestry Management. Evaluating and Co-ordinating Unit
FMWR    - Federal Ministry of Water Resources
FDALR      - Federal Department of Agricultural Land Resources
NPC        - National Planning Commission
FMF       - Federal Ministry of Finance
EFO       - Ecological Funds Office
*       Where achievements exceed targets, actual requirements were identified
and revised accordingly in the course of project implementation.



- 56 -
Table II: SUMMARY OF COUNTERPART FUNDING (N.000) AS AT 31/03/98.
YEAR/          1993  1994       1995      1996       1997    1998    TOTAL
PIA__              __ _                                   _
FEPA:
-EXPECTED    -    300.00    400.00        550.00    560.00  980.00  2790.00
-ACTUAL        -     -          -         -          25.00   625.00  650.00
-DIFFERENCE  -       300.00    400.00    550.00    535.00  355.00  2140.00
NPC:
-EXPECTED      -     -          36.67     61.12      61.12   13.09   172.00
-ACTUAL        -     -          12.23     15.89     4.89    26.50   59.51
-DIFFERENCE  -       -          24.44     45.23      56.23   (13.41)  112.49
EFO:
-EXPECTED    -       -          6.00      5.00       6.00    4.50    21.50
-ACTUAL        -     -          -         -          5.07    3.87    8.94
-DIFFERENCE  -       -          6.0       5.00       0.93    0.63    12.56
FMF:
-EXPECTED    -       -          24.00     25.00      23.00   24.75   96.75
-ACTUAL        -     -          18.75     -          34.58   103.75  157.08
-DIFFERENCE  -       -          5.25      25.00     (11.58) (79.00) (60.33)
FORMECU:
-EXPECTED    -       -          250.00    260.00    230.00  311.25  1051.25
-ACTUAL        -     -          28.38     17.75      16.86   85.52   148.51
-DIFFERENCE  -       -          221.62    242.25     213.14  225.73  90Z.74
LAND
RESOURCES:
-EXPECTED    -       -          294.00    295.00    293.00  291.63  1173.63
-ACTUAL        -     -          -         56.25      62.50   125.00  243.75
-DIFFERENCE  -    -             294.00    238.75    230.50  166.63  929.88
FMWR:
-EXPECTED    -       -          -         130.00     140.00  121.15  391.15
-ACTUAL        -    -                     9.71       31.25   31.25   72.21
-DIFFERENCE  -    -                       120.29     108.75  89.50   318.94
REMARKS:
Note- FGN is expected to finance 21.50% of the Foreign Exchange Costs and 81.25% of the
local costs of the Project.



- 57 -
Table III: SUMMARY OF IDA DISBURSEMENTS (US$M) AS AT 31/03/98.
YEAR/            1993    1994      1995       1996       1997       1998    TOTAL
PIA                                        _
FEPA:
-EXPECTED       2.50    2.85       3.00       4.15       3.11      3.09     18.70
-ACTUAL         -        -         1.54       1.99       2.56       1.84    7.93
-DIFFERENCE   2.50    2.85         1.46       2.16       0.55       1.25    10.77
NPC:
-EXPECTED       0.096   0.100      0.105      0.134      0.100     0.093   0.628
-ACTUAL         -        -         0.041      0.110      0.025     0.014   0.19
-DIFFERENCE   0.096   0.100        0.064      0.024      0.075     0.079   0.438
EFO:
-EXPECTED       0.0110  0.0111    0.0121    0.0131    0.0152    0.0160  0.0785
-ACTUAL         -        -         0.019      0.027      0.024     0.020   0.09
-DIFFERENCE   0.0110  0.0111   (0.0069)  (0.0139)  (0.0088)   (0.004)  (0.0115)
FMF:
-EXPECTED       0.0410  0.0528    0.0589    0.0685    0.0690    0.0628  0.353
-ACTUAL         -        0.033     0.054      0.063      0.065     0.035   0.25
-DIFFERENCE   0.0410  0.0198    0.0049    0.0055    0.004          0.0278  0.103
FORMECU:
-EXPECTED       0.396   0.400      0.408      0.425      0.515     0.305   2.449
-ACTUAL         -        0.565     0.665      0.584      0.855     0.341   3.01
-DIFFERENCE   0.396   (0.165)   (0.257)    (0.159)   (0.34)         (0.036)  (0.561)
LAND
RESOURCES:
-EXPECTED       0.0215  0.0335    0.486       0.550      0.680     0.485   2.256
-ACTUAL         -        0.0335    0.45       0.52       0.65      0.46    2.08
-DIFFERENCE   0.0215  -            0.0360    0.030       0.030     0.025   0.176
FMWR:
-EXPECTED  -  0.0550  0.0590    0.0625    0.0985    0.1120    0.1512  0.539
-ACTUAL         -        -         -          0.030      0.101     0.149   0.28
-DIFFERENCE   0.0550  0.0590   0.0625    0.0685    0.011           0.003   0.259
REMARKS:
Note- IDA is to finance 78.5% of the Foreign Exchange Costs and 18.75% of the local costs
of the Project excluding duties and taxes.



TABLE IV: SUMMARY OF THE PROJECT COST AS AT 31:03:98
S/NO       AGENCY                                     APPRAISAL ESTIMATE (US$M)                        ACTUAL/LATEST ESTIMATE(US$M)
LOCAL         FOREIGN           TOTAL           LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL
COSTS         COSTS                             COSTS       COSTS
1         INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
(a)        FEPA                                         3.50           12.33              15.83            0.22      13.78           14.00
(b)        NPC                                            -             0.80               0.80            0.04       0.49            0.53
          FMF                                                          0.45               0.45            0.02       0.36            0.38
(d)        EFO                                             -            0.10               0.10            0.63       0.58            1.21          co
TOTAL                                        3.50           13.68              17.18            0.91      15.21           16.12
2         INFORMATION NETWORK
(a)        FEPA                                         0.75             2.75              3.50              -        0.21            0.21
(b)        FMA-FORMECU                                  0.50             3.00              3.50            0.18       4.31            4.49
i          FMA-LAND RESOURCES                           0.73             2.70              3.43               -       2.84            2.84
(d)        FMWR                                         0.32            0.61               0.93                       0.40            0.40
(e)        NRCC-FEPA                                    0.13            0.40               0.53              -           -               -
TOTAL                                        2.43            9.46              11.89            0.18       7.76            7.94
3.        STUDIES
(a)        FEPA                                         1.30            4.20              5.50               -        0.83           0.83
4.        TOTAL BASE COST                              7.23            27.34             34.57            1.09       23.80          24.89
5.        CONTINGENCIES                                0.77             2.5634            3.33   ,-                   0.23           0.23
TOTAL PROJECT COST                           8.00           29.90             37.90             1.09      24.03          25.12



TABLE V: PROJECT FINANCING AS AT 31 MARCH 1998.
AGENCIES/      FEPA    NPC   FMF        EFO       FORMECU   FMWR    LAND              TOTAL        TOTAL         DIFERENCE  % ACTUAL    REMARK
SOURCES                                                                RESOURCES   ACTUAL          EXPECTED                   OVER
CONTRI-    CONTRI-                      EXPECTED
BUTION       BUTION
FGN            $M      $M      $M        $M         $M        $M        $M              5M            $M            $M           Sm
.65    .06      .16      009          . 19      03            .24         1.34          5.70         4.36          23.51
IDA              7.93   0.19      0.25     0.09         3.01     0.28           2.08        13.83           25         11.17         55.32
ODA           .-                                                                                             3            3
EEC                                                                                                          I 1           I
UNDP             0.28   -                ._-                                                 0.28            3          2.72          9.33 --
MONTREAL
PROTOCOL
INTERIM
FUND           .12                                                                         .12             .20          .08
_______ ___________ .                      . .                       ..      . _         60
TOTAL            8.98   0.25      0.41      0.09         3.2     0.31           2.32        15.57         37.9         22.33         41.08 1_____



APPENDIX 1(a) FEASIBILITY STUDIES BY CENTRAL NODE AT FEPA
S/NO                     TITLE                DURATION               COST                  REMARKS
1.        Hazardous chemical tracking system    6 Months     N4,722,000.00         Completed (6-10-92)
in Nigeria
2.        National Biodiversity strategy and  6 Months       N3,882,000.00         Completed (9-8-96)
Action Plan
3.        Industrial Pollution Policy and    9 Months        N4,739,068.00         Completed (12--2-97)
Management study
4.        Industrial Pollution Inventory Study    12 Months  N 13,121,325.00       Completed (12-5-97)
5.        Country Study on the phase out of    6 Months      N3,882,000.00         Completed (9-8-96)
Ozone Depleting Substance (ODS)                                                                      l
6.        Development of the legal Framework  3 Months       N5,697,500.00         Completed (16-12-97)
and Guidelines on Response,
Compensation and Liability for
Environmental Damages in Nigeria.
7.       Flooding Study of the Niger Delta  6 Months         N9,650,000.00        Completed (28-2-98)
$176,535
8.       Environmental Impact Assessment    I day            N8,828,000.00        Completed (20-3-98)
Guidelines printing and production of
EIA Guidelines for Five (5) Sectors.                .



- 61 -
APPENDIX I(b): FEASIBILITY/CONSULTANCY STUDIES BY SECTORAL NODE AT
FORMECU.
S/NO          TITLE                DURATION          COST          REMARK
1 Studies on Forest Reserve
Management Project:         1 month       N3,792,000.00  Feasibility
-Socio-economic survey.                                  studies-Completed
-A Study on the Role of
Community Participation in
Forest Management.
-Agroforestry Models for
Communities Adjacent to the
Reserves.
-Marketing and Utilisation of
Forest Products.
2 Assessment of Landuse and                                 Procurement-
Vegetation Changes in Nigeria                            LOI-Consultancy:
between 1978 and 1993.                                   Completed
(1994).
3  System Design for Remote                  US$9,987.92    Procurement-
Sensing and GIS.                                         LOI-Consultancy:
Completed
_ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  ..__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . (1995).
4  Video Documentary on        4 weeks       GBP 16,000.00  Procuremerft-PQ-
Landuse and Vegetation                                   Consultancy:
Changes.                                                 Completed
(1997).
5 Computerisation of Accounts.               N 1,550,000.00  Procurement-
LOI-Consultancy
:Completed
=__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (1 9 9 7 ).



- 62 -
APPENDIX I(c): FEASIBILITY STUDIES BY SECTORAL NODE AT FDALR.
S/NO            TITLE              DURATION        COST           REMARK
1 Assessment of Soil           3 Years      $1,328,840.00  Nearly completed
Degradation in Nigeria.                                 (1998)
2 Consultancy and Technical
Assistance:                                             Completed:
-Crown Agents               1 Year       $314,820.00   (1998)
-Wale Badipe                1 Year       $8,348.00      (1996)
-Aerial Surveys & Mapping.    3 Years    $1,328,840.00  (1998)
APPENDIX I(d): FEASIBILITY STUDIES BY SECTORAL NODE AT FMWR.
S/NO           TITLE                 DURATION           COST          REMARK
1 Consultancy services for Water    1 Year     $57,000.00       Completed
Quality Monitoring Network.                                   (1996)
2 System Design for Environmental  1 Year      N496,000.00       Completed
Management Information                                        (1995)
Network.
3 Nationwide Water Degradation    1 Year       $250,000.00       Suspended
Study.                                                        due to time
limitation
1(1997).
APPENDIX I(e): FEASIBILITY STUDIES BY NODE AT NPC.
SINO             TITLE                 DURATION           COST    REMARK
1 Impact of Petroleum Pricing Policy  2 Years   $189,000.00    Draft final
on the Environment in Nigeria.                              submitted to
2 Impact of Fertilizer Pricing Policy   2 Years                bank (1998).
on the Environment in Nigeria.
3 Impacf of Exchange Rate Policy on  -
the Environment.
4  Impact of Forest Policy on the
Environment.



APPENDIX II: SPECIFIC INVESTMENT STUDIES (PART C)
S/NO                         TITLE                      DURATION            COST           REMARKS
1.     A study of the conservation status of flora and fauna   6 Months  N3,246,341.60   Completed
within the Bobo -Plains of the Federal Capital                  ($40,078.28)
Territory (FCT), Abuja by Abuja Environmental                                  (March 1998)
Protection Board in conjunction with CAPS
Consultants.
2.      Stubbs Creek Conservation Project, Uyo, Akwa   12 Months       N3,825,000.00   Completed
l_______  Ibom State by Akwa Ibom State EPA                              ($47,222.22)    (Sept. 1997)
3.      Feasibility Studies of Community Environmental  12 Months      N2,641,375.00   Completed
Management in Degraded Watersheds, Obudu                       ($32,609.57)    (Sept. 1997)
Plateau, Cross River State by Development in
Nigeria
4.      Drill Rehabilitation and Breeding Centre and Afi  12 Months    N13,713,395.00  Completed
mountain Wildlife Sanctuary, Cross River State by              ($45,844.38)
Pandrillus                                                                     (Sept. 1997)
5.      The Ekuri Initiative: Community Forest         9 Months        N 1,940,125.00   Completed
Management Project by Cross River State Forestry                ($45,844.38)   (June, 1997)
Development Department
6.      Feasibility Study on the Prevention and Control of    9 Months  N4,230,000.00   Completed (June
Land Degradation through efficient management of                                1998)
Livestock and its by-products by Vet-Agric. Consult
Nig. Ltd;, Maiduguri, Borno State
7.      Forest Adoption, Rejuvenation and Enrichment in  9 Months      N3,840,000.00   60% Completed
Ekiti State by Ekiti State EPA                                                 (by June 1998)
8.     Study of Pollution and Clean Up Options for Kaduna  9 Months    N3,600,000.00   Completed
river and its Tributaries by Kaduna State EPA                  ($44,444.44)    (June, 1998)



9.     Assessment of land Degradation at Kayauki Region    6 Months    N3,975,756.80    Complete
of Katsina State by Katsina State EPA in conjunction                             (March, 1998)
with Ecological Consultants                                                                      l
10.     The utilization of Wayer hyacinth extracts in   9 Months        N3,585,520.00    70% Completed
Agriculture: Community Based Action Plan by Talon                                by June, 1998)
Nig. Ltd., Apapa - Lagos
II.    Feasibility Study of Industrial Recycling of Wastes in  6 Months  N4,977,500.00    Completed
Nigeria by CASSAD, Ibadan, Oyo State                                   _         (March, 1998
12.     A proposal to study Degraded Minelands of Plateau    9 Months    N4,265,000.00   Completed
State by Plateau State EPA.                                      ($52,654.32)   (June, 1998)
13.    A plan for the development of a Protected Area   12 Months       N4,977,500.00   Completed
System in the Niger Delta by Niger Delta Wetlands                                (Sept. 1997)
Centre, Port-Harcourt.
14.    Reconnaissance Survey of Two Key Reserves in the   6 Months      N3,039,026.40   Completed
Niger Delta, Rivers State by NCF, Lagos.                                         (March, 1998)
15.    A study of Carrying Capacity of the Hadejia-Nguru    6 Months   N3,695,5 10.00    Completed
Wetlands as a Basis for controlling Land                                         (March, 1998)
Degradation and Resolving Conflicts over
Environmental Resources by IUCN-Hadejia-Nguru
Wetlands Conservation Project, Kano
OTHER STUDIES
16.    National Workshop on Environmental Development   4 days         N2,885,000.00    Completed
Strategy for the Niger Delta of Nigeria                                         (Sept. 1995)



- 65 -
APPENDIX III (a): PROCUREMENT BY CENTRAL NODE AT FEPA
SIN                 Item             Qty   Year of Procurement       Cost($)        Remarks
___________________  -  (Delivery/
Total      85%   Installation)
i)    4WD (Patrol) Station Wagon   47    1996              $1,179,658.64   .
ii)    2WD Station Wagon            10    1997                129,998.98
iii)    Communication Equipment    LOT    1996                452,588.00
| iv)    Compact Fax Machines and    51/8    1996             67,369.98
Industrial Fax Machine
v)    Large Photocopiers           2       1996               92,037.69
l vi)    Note Book and Desktop Micro  4/1     1996               38,827.46
____  Computers
vii)    Desktop Micro-Computers     12      1996                86,611.62
viii    Engineering Drawing Office    LOT   1996                50,031.17
Equipment and Office
Accessories
ix)    Cellular Phones              4       1997                8,448.06
x)    National Environmental      1 set    1998               595,706.00
Information Monitoring
Systems (Computers)
xi)    Bench top Equipment for Air   LOT    1998
and Water Analysis                                  $4,218,808.10
Laboratories
xii)    Air Pollution Monitoring    1       1998                42,996.00
Equipment
xiii    Equipment for soil and plant   LOT  1998
Analysis Laboratory                                $2,653,179.85
xiv    Capital Equipment for       LOT      1998               932,833.00
Laboratories
xv     Motorcycles                   8      1998
N1,620,000.00
xvi    Computer and Furniture      LOT      1998                79,950.00        1
lxvii- Printing of E.I.A Guidelines           1998               103,858.82



- 66 -
APPENDIX III (b): PROCUREMENT BY SECTORAL NODE AT FORMECU
S/No                     Item                   Qty   Year of                    Cost($)            Remarks
Procurement
Total          85%
i)    2 Units of Peugeot 405 2WD SW and 2             1995               $82,082.30              Supplied
Units of Toyota L.C.                   PQ
ii)    Officer Furniture                         .    1995               N447,300.98
l iii)    Office Equipment                          ,    1995               N753,740.00   _
iv)    Cooking Utensils                               1995                N65,283.00             _       _
v)    Drafting, Audio Visual field and camping  ,    1995              GBP47,262.00
equipment
vi)    Supply and installation of Security       ,    1996            N1,254,700.00
hardware for GIS/RS equipment
vii)    Supply and installation of network        .     1996           N2,193,992.00
hardware (Ibadan)
viii)    Supply and installation of network        .     1997           N2,683,116.92                    .,
hardware (Abuja)
ix)    Supply of Map filing cabinets (15               1996            Nl,023,750.00
l________  Units)                                ..
X)    Supply and installation of Integrated GIS/RS    IC  1996          $448,880.00              Installed
equipmnent.                            B
xi)    Supply of Mapfiting Cabinets.                   1996            N1,023,750.00              Supplied
PQ
xii)    Supply of 5 Units of Photocopiers,      .       1997             GBP49,362.00
Laptop and desktop computers.
xiii)    Supply of Unit of 2WD SW  and 5          .      1997          N12,453,035.05                Supplied
Units of Toyota
xiv)    Supply of Forest Inventory                .     1997            GBP32,388.00
equipment
xv)   Supply of Survey equipment                 .     1997            GBP40,568.00                    ..
xvi)    Supply of Map production materials        .     1997             GBP30,91 1.00               Supplied
X Xvii)   Supply of One Unit of Radiometer                 1997             GBP4,865.00                 Supplied
xviii    Furnishing of Computer lab and                   1998           N2,649,556.00
Conference room                        It
xix)    Supply of Intercom system.                         1998          N5,082,515.70
I. __ __ __ _ __ __ _   _ __ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ ___ __ __ _ __ __ __ __ _ __ __ __   __ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ ___.._ _



- 67 -
LPPENDIX III (c): PROCUREMENT BY CENTRAL NODE AT FDALR
S/No               Item             Qty    Year of                     Cost($)           Remarks
Procurement
Total         85%
i)    Vehicles 4WD                                              42,521.41
11       - Landcruser std               1      1996
- Double Cabin Pick-up        1     1996
|| ii)    2WD                           2     1996
504 Saloon
i_____ 504 Station Wagon               1     1996
iii)    Office Equipment           LOT
- Audio-Visual Equipment             1995                  3,656.00
- Air-conditioners                   1996                  5,575.89
- Visual Image Processing            1996                 13,306.75
Equipment
- Photocopiers                       1995                 11,193.60
- Communication                      1995                  1,381.25
Equipment                            1996                 17,170.00
- Drafting Equipment                 1996                 15,334.64
- Area & Distance
Measuring Equipment                1996                 14,029.78
- Lib & Filming Equipment            1997                 23,750.00
- Generator
iv)    Field & Laboratory
- Soil Testing equipment             1998                111,000.00
- Camping equipment                  1996                 23,957.00
- Soil Survey equipment              1996                 43,338.42
v)   GIS Equipment
- Hardware                           1998                280,164.00
- Software                           1998                138,718.83
vi)    Data Acquisition
- 1980s sets of landsat TM           1998                165,000.00
x backup of 1970s & 1990s
I._______________ ..____________             ____________________________________ __________________________________   _________________________________________________



- 68 -
APPENDIX III (d): PROCUREMENT BY SECTORAL NODE AT FMWR.
S/NO           ITEM            QTY    YEAR OF                COSTS (US $)          REMARKS
PROCURE'   TOTAL             85%
_ _ _ MENT__                          _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _
1     Vehicles:
(i)    4-wheel drive
Mitsubishi
Double Cabin
Pick-up van.     2       1997          75,151.00      63,878.35     Supplied
(ii)    4-wheel drive
Toyota Hilux
Double Cabin
Pick-up van.     2       1997          73,950.00      62,857.50
2     Office Equipment:
(i)    Photocopiers    2        1997           69,533.33     59,103.00
(ii)    Electronic
typewriter      -
(iii)   Library
equipment       4        1997                                           ,,
(iv)    Filling
equipment      _                                                        ..
3     Laboratory
Equipment:
(i)    Physio-
chemical         43      1998          47,875.25      40,693.96
laboratory
(ii)    Laboratory      13       1998          30,145.00     25,623.25
equipment        20      1998           5,736.00       4,875.60
(iii)   Reagents        14       1998           1,171.74        995.98
(iv)    Glasswares       -          -          14,424.66      12,260.96
(v)    Others
4      Geographic
Information System
(GIST Equipment:                                                            Not supplied
3          -          22,050.00           -        by the vendor
(i)    Hardware         6           -          36,000.00                        .
(ii)    Software        7           -          21,600.00                        .
(iii)   Peripherals    14           -           5,650.00                        .
(iv)    Supplies        -           -           1,500.00                        .
_ (I)    Others



- 69 -
APPENDIX III (e): PROCUREMENT BY SECTORAL NODE AT NPC
S/NO           ITEM            QTY    YEAR OF                 COSTS (US$)           REMARKS
PROCURE-   TOTAL             85%
M ENT__            _  _  _   __   _  _  _   __   _  _   _
1     Vehicle:                  1       1997                            -          Supplied
2    . Office Equipment:
(i)    Computer/
Assessory         -        -           N242,000.00                   Supplied
(ii)    Office
equipment         -
APPENDIX III (f): PROCUREMENT BY SECTORAL NODE AT EFO
S/NO           ITEM            QTY      YEAR OF               COSTS (US $)           REMARKS
PROCURE-   TOTAL             85%
_____                          ~~~~MENT_____
1     Vehicle:
(i)    Car               1      1996           N2,001,629.50                 Supplied
(ii)    Motorcycles      -         -
2    . Equipment:
(i)    Office-
Computer
hardware &
software          2      1998          N2,062,500.00                 Supplied
(ii)    Laboratory        -        -
(iii)    GIS equipment
etc.-                                        --



IBRD 27298
4-                                8.                         10.~~~ 12-                                     .-          4' C H A D
_/^                                        N    I  G   E   R
/           )    SOKOTO                           KASINA-
X   z  \s    2      ~~~~~~~KEBB I(                                                   US                                  YOBE         \a 
-i2;J  . ) - ,_                               ,_,              KANO         4 <,-                  \          "  w      '  MAIDUGURI   N (MiG,2
>- k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B-R1
B E WN                                                                                %
<1                       N I G E R
ADAA,W                  C; CHAD
<   8    -, R   A ~~~~~~~~~~+  iX       i  F. C 7 ~~~~~~~~BjA     P L 'A T E A U"         /.<
g \ iLORIN !                                                                                                      . T  -S/ ,) * SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
TEICHNOLOGY SUPPORT PROJECT
j sft,   Feshola      '   S.2OGz 4Xh                  p0               -C\;                7g                     T       A      2       T     MAJOR VEGETATION ZONES    8'
I Y
%  ;<, " E34tN (  ,!, ONDO   9   ~~~~~~~~~~~~K O G I                         R                                     \}Sch.1
dAEEOWOAKURE                   RI) fJ'            B E N U E o/g<I Norlh rn                    0600
~~~ABEOK0,00            4,,t      .1bc.o
t / ho~~~~~~~~~~r l--VER.s                           -S/ NoOh,oo O<oo,o  1000-1250  76.15.2   2 5                  20   @      N00olondC0p6L0
0   2   o  dL  *L  oo  80  IOO   .  ~~~~~~~~~~~   Derved ~~SoolO,,Oo,,  1200-1600  25.4-76 2   1  345  0.06-50   --.-' Sto, 60undorie
(  /   M iLS   ' .Mb  \                                         FDrese S~~~~~~~~~~~~~0, OSwomF    >1750   0177.8    0  0-2  E0  _-10  00er=ioo 100ndor0
\  /  O is dL 60 EO Lh 12 l-O lLO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                        .
:, 4'                         0.0600440                                                                CAM        ERO LO
4'  6'  0'                           0  '                     (I-.E 14.
00-1000  1   7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SETOSE 19



