Documnet of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 10741
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAR)
JUNE 19, 1992
MIGOlFIC,H (,()PYrz
Rtoport Nc. 10741 -E,AR Type: (PC.h)
MASC)N-AN1)YI  XWL106  / T9111/ OEDID2
Trade, Finance & Industry Operations
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           Barbados Dollar (BD$)
US$1                    BD$2
BD$1                    US$0.50
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BARC      -    Barclays Bank PLC
BDB       -    Barbados Development Bank
BNB       -    Barbados National Bank
BNS       -    Bank of Nova Scotia
CARICOM   -    Caribbean Community
CBB       -    Central Bank of Barbados
CCB       -    Caribbean Commercial Bank
CIBC      -    Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
FRR       -    Financial Rate of Return
GOB       -    Government of Barbados
ICF       -    Industrial Credit Fund at the Central Bank of Barbados
PCR       -    Project Completion Report
PFIs      -    Participating Financial Intermediaries
RBC       -    Royal Bank of Canada
SAR       -    Staff Appraisal Report
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C 20433
USA
Office of Dfetetot.General
Operations Evaluation
June 19, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:      Project Completion Report on Barbados
Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2260-BAR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Comoletion Report on Barbados - Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2260-BAR)"
prepared by the Trade, Finance and Industry Division, Country Department III of
the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II contributed by
the Borrower.   No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .i
EVALUATION SUMKARY  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  iii
Part I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.  Background ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .........1
3.  Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . . . .         2
4.  Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         2
5.  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         4
6.  Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         5
7.  Project Sustainability .   .......   . . . . . . ..   . ..           7
8.  Bank Performance . .    .. ....... ... . . ......   .                8
9.  Borrower Performance ...   ...   .. ....... .....8
10.  Project Relationship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         8
11.  Consulting Services    .       .  .  .  .    .  . ..    . . . . . .  9
12.  Project Documentation and Data . . . . ..  .  .v .  .  . . . .       9
Part II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . .    11-13
Part III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loans ....    .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  15
2.  Project Timetable  ....  .     . . . . . .  .  .    ... ....   .    16
3.  Cumulative Estimates and Actual Disbursements  . . . . . . .        18
4.  Status of Covenants  . . . . .         . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  19
5.  Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  . .        20
6. Project Implementation
6.1  Overview of Subprojects   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        21
6.2  institutional and Industrial Distributions of
Subprojects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        22
6.3  Characteristics of Large Subprojects  . . . . . . . . .        23
6.4  Actual Performance of Large Subprojects   . . . . . . .        24
6.5  Detailed List of All Subprojects by Sector/Subsector  .        25
6.6  Project Costs and .'inancing   . . . . . . . . . . . . .       29
7. ICF's Financial Performance
71. Audited Income and Accumulated Earnings
Statement, 1984-90  . . . I . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        30
7.2 Audited Balance Sheet (as of December 31), 1984-90  .           31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
INDUSTPRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAR)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) -eviews the performance of the
Industrial Credit Project in Barbados for which Loan 2260-BAR (llS$10.5
million) was approved by the Board on April 12, 1983. The Loan had a credit
component of US$10.0 million and a technical assistance (TA) component of
US$0.47 million. The proceeds of the credit component were channelled through
the Industrial Credit Fund (ICF) established in the Central Bank of Barbados
(CBB) for onlending to private enterprises in the industrial and tourism
sectors and related services, through financial intermediaries. The loan was
closed with the cancellation of US$0.18 million on November 30, 1990, nearly
three years after the original Closing Date.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Trade, Finance and
Industry Operations Division, Country Department III, Latin America and the
Caribbean Region (LA3TF). Part II has been prepared by the Project Executing
Agency (ICF). The entire draft PCR has been sent to the Borrower and ICF for
their review and comments. The Borrower approved Part II prepared by ICF
without comments on Parts I and III.
This PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the Loan and
Project Agreements; supervision reports; internal Bank memoranda;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower/CBB/Participating Financial
Intermediaries (PFIs); ICF's audited annual financial statements and periodic
progress reports; and data compiled by ICF on subprojects and World Bank
missions' interviews with selected subborrowers.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.          Obiectives.  The principal objectives of the project were to: (a)
accelerate investment to expand industrial output and exports; (b) generate
increased employment to absorb part of the expanding labor force and help
alleviate unemployment; (c) establish a new mechanism for expanding tha supply
of term credit by using all the banking institutions; and (d) contribute to
the Government's energy conservation program by financing energy-saving
devices and processes (para. 3.1).
2.          Implementation Experience.  The project did not involve any
unusual risks, but the last disbursement took place 31 months after the
original Closing Date of December 31, 1987, due mainly to the delay in
initiating studies on the tourism industry, and export competitiveness and
marketing (paras. 3.2, 5.1 and 8.1). Disbursements of the credit component
were completed without major delay. While the banking sector in Barbados was
highly liquid during 1984-88, the bulk of credit component was committec1 and
disbursed during this period as commercial banks preferred to use long-term
resources provided under the project for funding relatively large (US$250,000
to US$1.5 million) term-loans rather than utilize their own contractually
ahert-term deposit resources to avoid or minimize the risk involved in term-
transformation (paras. 5.1 and 5.2). The project's two-tier credit system
under the Industrial Credit Fund (ICF) established by the Central Bank of
Barbados (CBB) was timely and appropriate as it became apparent that the
Government-owned Barbados Development Bank (BDB) alone could not cover credit
demand of various types and scales of private enterprises and that the BDB's
performance deteriorated during project implementation (para. 5.3). Also, the
organization of ICF, while simple, was appropriate, given the strong support
provided by other units of CBB (para. 4.5). On the whole, ICF's performance
in implementing the credit component was satisfactory (para. 9.1).
3.          Results.  The project has largely met its objectives.  First, the
credit component (US$9.8 million) of the project was used to finance as many
as 133 subprojects (as compared with about 100 estimated at the time of
appraisal) with aggregate investments of about US$28.6 million.   Most of the
medium-and large-size subprojects (involving IBRD funding more than US$250,000
but less than US$1.5 million) were export oriented and currently operating
profitably. Thus, the project contributed to the expansion of output and
exports. Second, although the number of jobs created did not reach the level
(of about 1,000) estimated at the time of appraisal, the project did generate
at least 426 new jobs. Third, the two-tier credit mechanism introduced under



- iv _
the project made it possible to use commercial banks as intermediaries for
developmental-type lending. In addition, results of export competitiveness
and iisketing studies financed under the technical assistance component have
proviW d a basis for the ongoing policy dialogue between the Government and
the Bank (para. 6.5). Although the project provided for financing of
aubprojects specirically designed to finance energy saving devices and
processes, no such subproject was submitted for financing.
4.          Performance of 133 subprojects financed has been mixed.  Eleven
medium-and large-size subprojects absorbed US$8.2 million equivalent of IBRD
resources. Of these eleven subprojects, nine subproject firms were assessed
by Bank missions as being operating profitably, one hotel was found to be
operating at a loss, and one agroindustry subproject was evaluated by the ICF
as being virtually bankrupt. These subprojects created approximately 426 new
jobs as against 424 estimated at the time of subproject approval. Except for
one virtually bankrupt subproject, all medium-and large-size subborrowers kept
their loans current. Performance of 122 small subprojects (which received
US$1.6 million equivalent of IBRD resources) is difficult to assess due to the
lack of information. However, according to BOB data on subborrowers' debt
servicing performance, 37 subloans out of 120 subloans financed by BDB were in
arrears for three months or more at the end of February 1991. The total
amount of these subloans in arrears was about US$0.7 million equivalent, or
7.1% of total ICF/IBRD subloans (paras. 6.2 and 6.3).
5.          _ustiinabilitv.  The institutional arrangements for the two-tier
credit system, established for the first time in Barbados under this project
proved sustainable as the arrangements have worked well under the project and
the European Investment Bank has started using the same institutional
arrangements (including the same operating guidelines) used in the project.
However, with4.n this basic institutional structu~re, its modus operandi should
be reviewed from time to time and modified as necessary to correct past
mistakes and to deal with emerging issues (para. 7.1). The sustainability of
benefits of subprojects financed is difficult to assess precisely. However,
most of medium-and large-scale projects have performed well in competirg in
regional (and in a limited way in extra regional) markets; they should be abJ.e
to adapt to a changing competitive environment. Not all small subprojects
would survive over the long run without restructuring of their operations
(para. 7.2).
6.          Findings and Lessons Learned.  The project has largely met its
objectives. In retrospect, however, the project experience is instructive in
a number of respects. It suggests that specific financial soundness criteria
for financial intermediaries to become and remain eligible PFIs should be
established at the outset of project cycle. In the absence of such criteria
(the establishment and enforcement of which are now mandatory in the Bank),
there was no basis on whicn to trigger the disqualification of a weak
institution or the enforcement of formulation and implementation by such an
institution of an action program for meeting specific financial targets
(paras. 5.3 and 8.2). The terms of reference for studies should be agreed
upon at an early stage of project cycle to avoid delays in loan disbursements
(paras. 8.1 and 8.2).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAR)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW4 FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Proiect Identity
Name                 Industrial Credit Project
Loan Number    :    2260-BAR
RVP Unit        :   Latin America and the Caribbean
Country              Barbados
Sector               Industrial Finance
Subsector       :   Manufacturing and Tourism and Related Services
2.        Background
2.1       The key components of the development objectives and strategy
pursued by the Government of Barbados (GOB) (at the time of project appraisal)
were: (a) to foster rapid economic growth and reduce unemployment, mainly by
promoting a sustained expansion of tourism and manufacturing; (b) to achieve a
higher degree of economic diversification by promoting manufacturing and non-
sugar agricultural exports; and (c) to achieve a higher degree of self-
sufficiency by promoting the energy conservation and the development of
traditional and nontraditional sources of energy.
2.2       The Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2260-BAR) was the Bank's second
lending operation in support of the industrial sector in Barbrdos, following
the Induscrial Development and Export Promotion Project (Loan 1813-BAR) which
was implemented during 1980-85. The objectives of Loan 1813-BAR were largely
achieved despite the failure to introduce the economic rental rates for
industrial estates component. Under Loan 1813-BAR, the Barbados Development
Bank (BDB) was the only financial intermediary used for channelling the credit
component of the Bank loan to the industrial sector. At ths time of
preparation of Loan 2260-BAR, the Bank and the Central Bank of Barbados (CBB)
recognized a need for establishing a new mechanism to use commercial banks, in
additior. to 3DB, as a channel for onlending to ensure broader coverage cf
cred.t demand of various types and scales of enterprises in the industrial and
tourism sectors.
2.3       Sector development objectives noted in para. 2.1 above and the
CBB's objectives to increase development-type lending by commercial banks were
adequately reflected in the design of the project. In the aftermath of
decline in performance of the ~_'du3trial and tourism sectors, the Government
in 1985 initiated discussions with the Bank on studies to identify steps to be
taken to improve Barbados' overall international competitiveness and
marketing. These discussions resulted in the use of Loan 2260-BAR to finance



-2-
two studies on "Export Competitiveness and Marketing" and "Tourism
Development" (paras. 3.2, 5.1 and 11.1).
3.        Prolect Oblectives and Description
3.1       The project aimed to support the development of the industrial and
tourism sectors by making term resources available through participating
financial intermediaries (PFIs). The specific objectives were to:
(a)  accelera.e investment to expand industrial output and exports;
(b) generate increased employment to absorb part of the expanding labor
force and help alleviate unemployment;
(c) establish a new mechanism for expanding the supply of term credit
by using all the banking institutions; and
(d)  contribute to the Government's energy conservation program by
financing energy-saving devices and processes.
In addition to financing the establishment and e7yansion of business ventures,
the project was also intended to help maintain the viability of existing
enterprises by providing them with working capital to increase the prevailing
low utilization of installed capacity.
3.2       The project provided: (a) US$10.0 million for on-lendirg to all
productive activities in the industrial and tourism sectors and related
services; (b) US$0 25 million for a consultant for two-years to build up an
apex institution (Industrial Credit Fund--ICF, see paras. 4.1 and 4.4) and its
staff; and (c) an unallocated amount of US$0.22 million that could be used for
technical assistance (TA) to finance sectoral studies or program needed in the
course of project implementation or to strengthen the Barbados National Bank
(BNB), Barbados Development Bank (BDB), or ICF. CBB was able to establish and
manage ICF without a need for consultant assistance arising. At the request
of the Government, the Loan and Project Agreements were amended in November
1988 to reallocate US$0.25 originally allocated for TA to ICF and unallocated
US$0.22 million to finance the two studies noted in para. 2.3.
4.        Proiect Design and Organization
4.1       To accomplish the project objectives, a two-tier credit system was
established, comprising the CBB as the apex institution and a network of PFIs
qualified by CBB. CBB established a special fund, the Industrial Credit Fund
(ICF), with separate financial resources, accounts and staff for on-lending
through PFIs. The Government of Barbados (GOB), the Borrower, passed on the
Bank loan proceeds of the credit component as an equity contribution to ICF.
Thus, the GOB assumed the foreign exchange risk as well as variations in the
Bank's lending rate. All financial institutions legally established in
Barbados and accredited by CBB were eligible to participate in the ICF scheme.
ICF's Statement of Policies, accepted by the Bank, did not specify financial
soundness criteria for financial institutions to become eligible for
participating in the scheme. PFIs were to be responsible for administering



-3-
all subloans. ICF, mainly through CBB's Supervision Department, would follow
%%p on the PFIs' operations, check, on an ad-hoc basis, the performance of
final beneficiary firms and ensure the p-oper utili7ation of ICF resourcos for
the purposes of the project.
4.2       ICF's financing was available for all productive private
enterprises in the industrial and tourism sectors and related services for new
ventures, expansion, renovation and restructuring of existing firms, working
capital for increasing capacity utilization and energy conservation devices.
Subloans for working capital not associated with the fixed asset investments
were limited to an aggregate amount of US$5.0 million, but such subloans were
not made.  The Bank loan would reimburse CBB for 90% of ICF d±^co"xits with a
maximum of 70% of each new subproject's cost and 80% of an expansion
subproject's cost. PFIs had a free limit with ICF of US$150,000 equivalent,
and ICP had a free limit with the Bank of US$250,000 equivalent. The maximum
subloan limit was US$1.50 million. For subloans below the Bank's free limit,
ICF was to be reimbursed against Statements of Expenditures (SOE). However,
ICF did not use SOEs and submitted full documentation for all subloans to the
Bank. For subloans above the Bank's free limit, ICF would calculate the ERR
and FRR.
4.3        CBB was expected to contribute US$2.0 million of its own funds as
counterpart funds for onlending; CBB actually contributed US$1.28 million of
its own funds in two tranches (US$0.64 million each on January 17, 1984 and
January 15, 1985) as the Bank loan reimbursed 90% of ICF discounts and
internally generated funds were also available for onlending. The ICF
discount rate was set at 2 percentage points below the weighted average prime
rate of the commercial banks, which would be calculated quarterly and adjusted
provided that the change in the average prime rate is more than a quarter of
one percent. Discount rates, which applied to both outstanding and new
discounts, moved between 6.3% and 9.3%; the rates were higher than the
weighted average cost of deposits.   PFIs were free to set their onlending
rates with no ceiling set by CBB and to change the rate on any or all of their
subloans from time to time, taking into account credit market conditions.
Interest rates to final beneficiaries were set by PFIs at the time of subloan
approvals and varied between 9.25% and 13.0%. The maturities of subloans
varied according to the individual subprojects, but did not exceed 15 years
(including 3 years of grace).
4.4       ICF's organization consisted of a manager and one full time
professional, supported by an administrative staff. The ICF manager changed
twice but the full time professional prc;:.'ded the continuity during project
implementation. The ICF Advisory Commitcee, consisting of CBB Secretary, ICF
manager and staff, was established. The Committee, chaired by CBB Secretary,
who had experience in project financing, reviewed subloan discount
applications and had authority to seek IBRD authorization of those subloans
below free limit or prior approval of those subloans above free limit.
4.5       The project's scope, timing and scale were appropriate.  The credit
component of the project covered all the productive activities in the
manufacturing, agroindustry, fishery, tourism, mining and quarrying, and
related services. The project's two-tier credit scheme was timely and



-4-
appropriate as it became apparent that the BDPB alone could not cover credit
demand of various types and scales of private enterprises and that the BDB's
perfoi-mance deteriorated further during pro.ect implementation. Also, the
organization of ICF, while simple, was appropriate, given the strong support
provided by other units of CBB including its Supervision Department and
Economics & Remearch Department. On the whole, the project was well designed.
However, in retrospect, specific financial soundness criteria for financial
intermediarieo to become PFIs should have been establisbid.
5.        Proiect Implementation
5.1       Critical Variances in Proiect Implementation.  The last
disbursement took place 31 months after the original Closing Date of December
31, 1987. An undisbursed balance of US$182,395 was canceled cn November 30,
1990.  Disbursement of the credit component was completed by Februatj 1989, or
nearly a six-year period which is generally in line with the standard
disbursement profile for an apex type lending. However, disbursement of the
te-hnical assistance component was completed in August 1990. Two factors were
responsible for significant delay in implementation of the TA component.
First, the Bank and the Government reached agreement on the terms of reference
for proposed studies on the tourism industry, and export competitiveness and
marketing in October 1987. Second, the draft final report on tourism was
available in April 1990 and the draft final reports on export competitiveness
and marketing study, in August 1990. (Despite delay, many of policy
recommendations contained in these reports have provided a sound basis for
policy dialogue between the Bank and the Government.)
5.2       Proiect Risks.  The project did not involve any unusual risks.  The
potential risks identified by the appraisal mission were related to delays in
subloan processing and disbursements, but the delay in implementation of the
TA component was not anticipated. The excess liquidity in the banking sector,
which was considered one of the potential causes of delays in the credit
component, had not materially affected the pace of disbursements under the
credit component. The banking sector in Barbados was highly liquid during
1984-88, but the bulk of credit component was committed during this period as
commercial banks preferred to use ICF resources for funding relatively large
(US$1-1.5 million) term-loans rather than utilize their own (relatively low
cost) contractually short-term deposit resources to avoid or minimize the risk
involved in term-transformation.
5.3       Actions or Decisions Taken or not Taken which Affected Project
Implemeiitation.   Concern about the high level of arrears of BDB and need for
reaching agreement on specific ennual targets for the reduction of these
arrears were raised within the Bank during the Loan Committee review. But,
the Bank did not establish specific arrears reduction targets for BDB under
the project and intended to monitor closely progress made by BDB under s plan
for portfolio recuperation under Loan 1813-BAR (Industrial Development and
Export Promotion Project). The seriousness of BDB's financial problem
surfaced after the close of Loan 1813-BAR in 1985. While active direct
dialogue betweon the Bank and BDB ended along with the close of Loan 1813-BAR,
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) gtanted a US$6.0 million loan in March
1986 for industrial lending through BDB. A technical assistance component



-5
attached to the IDB loan p-ovided for the hiring of three conrultants to
assist BDB in the recovery of BDB's loan portfolio, in the techni2al
assessment of subprojects, and in setting up standardized accounting system
for small hotels. Despite the BDB's loan collection problem and consequent
erosion of equity, the Banl: and CBB did not take action to disqualify BDB as a
PFI under the ICF discount scheme in the absence of specific financial
soundness criteria for financial intermediaries to become and remain eligible
for participation in the scheme. (Also, the Bank staff felt that tbare was no
point to duplicate efforts of IDB to rehabilitate BDB.) The exclusion of BDB
from the ICF scheme might have been problematic from a political standpoint
but could have been done quietly as BDB had access to 2unds provided by IDB
and later by European Investment Bank. The exclusion might have reduced the
number of subprojects financed tinder Loan 2260-BAR but also the number of
subloans in arrears with PFIs under the Loan (para. 6.3). Subloans made by BDB
represented 17% of total credit component under the Loan (or 90% of total
number of subloans made).
5.4       At the time of appraisal, it was expected that competition amongst
intermediaries, including the tw7o public banks BDB and BNB, would ensure that
the onlending rates are in line with market conditions. At the same time, CBB
was required to review with the Bank at least yearly interest rates in
Barbados in order to ensure that interest rates for ICF lending continue to
reflect domestic and international credit market conditions and inflation
levels. The weighted average prime rates of the commercial banks and ICF
discount rates (i.e., two percentage points below the former) were positive in
real terms during project implementation. However, ICF discount rates were at
times below the IBRD lending rates as the banking sector in Barbados was
highly liquid and interest rates in Barbados followed the trends in
international credit market conditions with a time lag.
6.        Proiect Results
6.1       Achievements of Prolect Objectives.  The project has largely met
its objectives. First, the credit component (US$9.8 million) of the project
was used to finance as many as 133 subprojects with aggregate project costs of
about US$28.6 million. Most of the relatively large subprojects were export-
oriented and currently operating profitably (para. 6.3). Thus, the project
contributed to exp- sion of output and exports. Second, although the number
of jobs c-eated aid not seem to reach the level estimated at the time of
appraisal, the project did generate new jobs (para. 6,3). Third, the two-tier
credit mechanism introduced under the project made it possible *.o use
commercial banks as intermediaries for developmental-type lending. Actual
performance of subprojects financed by private commercial banks was good with
no arrears (para. 6.3).   As to the fourth objective, there was no subproject
which was specifically designed for financing energy savings devices and
processes.
6.2       Impact of Project.  (a)  Main Characteristics of Subproiects.  ICF
rediscounted 133 subloans made by PFIs. Aggregate cost of these subprojects
amounted to about US$28.6 million, of which ICF contributed US$11.6 million,
or about 41% of total, with final beneficiaries and PFIs making up the
balance. IBRD disbursed e edit funds, US$9.8 million, represented about 84%



-6-
of ICF rediscounts and about 34% of aggregate subproject cost. Of 133
subprojects financed (as compared to about 100 subprojects estimated at the
time of appraisal), eleven (11) relatively large subprojects (involving IBRD
funding rf more than US$250,000 but less than US$1.5 million) absorbed US$8.2
million equivalent of IBRD resources, or -bout 84% of the credit component.
These eleven medium and large subloans consisted of subloans totalling US$3.1
million for five manufacturing firms, US$3.0 million for refurbishment of
th.ee hotels, US$0.8 million for two agroindustry projects, and US$1.3 million
for a tourism related service project (airline food catering). These eleven
subprojects were expected to create 424 new jobs at the time of their
approval, at ar average cost per job of about US$60,000. For these
subprojects, financial (FRR) and economic (ERR) rates of return were
estimated. Estimated FRR ranged from 14% for a draperies and window shade
project to 45% for a meat processing plant expansion project; ERR, from 15Z
for a non-soap detergent manufacturing project to 66% for a rum refinery
modernization project. The remaining 122 subprojects (which received US$1.6
million equivalent of IBRD resources) comprised 74 tourism taxis (US$0.6
million), 24 fishing boats (US$0.3 million), 18 srmall-scale manufacturing and
one agroindustry (US$0.6 million), 3 services and one each in mining and small
hotel (US$0.1 million). On the whole, the average size of subloans was
US$74,000, the largest being US$1.3 million and the smallest being US$1,000.
6.3       (b) Performance of Subprojects Financed.   Performance of
subprojects has been mixed. Bank missicis visited nine subprojects out of
eleven medium-and large-size subtrojects mentioned above. According to
information provided by ICF and based on Bank missions' interviews with
enterprises, nine subproject firms were operating profitably, one hotel
project was operating at a loss, and one agroindustry project was virtually
bankrupt. No attempt was made to recalculate FRRs and ERRs on the basis of
actual subproject performance. However, available information suggest that
rates of return on nine projects performing well would be higher than
opportunity cost of capital in Barbados. Rates of return on one hotel project
operating at a loss would be below the opportunity cost of capital unless its
performance improves significantly in the near future, and those on the
bankrupt project would be negative. Large subprojects created 426 new jobs as
against 424 estimated at the time of subproject approval. Except for one
virtually bankrupt subproject financed by the government-owned commercial bank
(BNB), all large subborrowers kept their loans current. Performance of 122
small projects ic difficult to assess due to the lack of information.
However, according to the data on subborrowers' arrears, 37 subloans out of
120 subloans financed by BDB were in arrears for three months or more at the
end of February 1991. Of these subloans in arrears, 21 subloans were in
arrears for more than one year; most of these problem subloans were for
fishery and small-scale industry. It should be noted, however, that the total
amount of problem subloans amounted to about US$ 0.7 million equivalent, or
7.1% of total ICF/IBRD subloans. There was no arrears on subloans made by
private commercial banks.
6.4       (c) Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs).   There are
seven institutions operating in the commercial banking sector in Barbados.
Six banks entered into a participating agreement with the Central Bank to
access to ICF. Two of these are local (BNB and Caribbean Commercial Bank) and



-7-
four, foreign (three Canadian and one UK). BDB also participated in the two-
tier lending program. Tables 6.1 and 6.2 show a summary of each institution's
participation in ICF discounting. In amount, subloans made by private
commercial banks represented 79X of total credit component; subloans made by
BDB, 17%; and a subloan by BNB, 4%. As noted in the preceding paragraph,
subprojects financed by private commercial banks performed well with the
exception of one hotel project and had no arrears in debt servicing. In
contrast, many of the subprojects financed by the Government owned BNB and BDB
seemed to perform poorly.
6.5       (d)  Impact on Sectoral Growth and Policies.  ICF's financing of
the two upper end of tourist hotels increased the capacity of the tourism
industry in Barbados to attract the high end of the tourism market. Results
of export competitiveness and marketing studies have provided a basis for the
ongoing policy dialogue between the Bank and the Government on measures for
restoring international competitiveness.
7.        Proiect Sustainability
7.1       The sustainability of the institutional arrangements for the two-
tier credit system, established for the first time in Barbados under this
project, is high as the arrangements have by and large worked well under the
project and the European Investment Bank has started using the same
institutional arrangement (including the same operating guidelines) used in
the project. However, while the basic structure of the arrangements is
sustainable over the medium and longer terms, its modus operandi should be
reviewed from time to time and modified as necessary to correct past mistakes
(e.g., specific financial soundness criteria for PFIs to remain eligible) and
to deal with emerging issues (e.g., need for environmental assessment of
projects to be financed). In consultation with the Bank, ICF plans to
establish a venture capital fund, using the internally generated funds
resulting from the subloan repayments. This fund would be managed by a
private sector institution which has a reasonable track record in this area.
Also, a follow-up Bank financial intermediary operation, when implemented,
will reinforce sustainability of the two-tier lending arrangement.
7.2       The sustainability of benefits of subprojects financed is difficult
to assess precisely. However, the nine relatively large subprojects that Bank
missions had visited performed reasonably well with the exception of one hotel
project. There is no doubt that their output level and number of employees
will fluctuate over time. Their generally good performance to date in
competing in regional (and in a limited way in extra regional) markets,
apparently strong management and sound financial structure suggest that most
of these nine firms are capable of adapting to the new business environment
created by the proposed trade liberalization. Not all small firms and
individual subborrowers would survive over the long run and some may go under.
Measures that would facilitate the reorganization of these firms and
restructuring of their projects would be considered under the proposed private
sector development project.



-8-
8.        Bank Performance
8.1       Main Strengths and Weaknesses.  IBRD was diligent in facilitating
project preparation. Bank staff contributed to the smooth working of the two-
tier credit system in Barbados by helping design a simple onlending mechanism
and through supportive working relationships. However, the delay in
initiating the two studies under the technical assistance component could have
been significantly reduced if the Bank and Borrower had reached an agreement
on the terms of reference for the proposed studies at an early stage of
project cycle.
8.2       Lessons Learned.  In retrospect, the following lessons may be
learned from the experience in the project:
(a) specific financial soundness criteria for financial intermediaries
to become and remain eligible PFIs should be established at the
outset of project cycle (para. 5.3); and
(b) the terms of reference for studies should be agreed upon at an
early stage of project cycle (para. 8.1).
9.        Borrower Performance
9.1       Main Strengths and Weaknesses.  The Borrower was efficient in
completing conditions of effectiveness. CBB established ICF and has managed
it successfully without a need for tachnical assistance arising. During the
project implementation period, the Bank worked with three ICF managers. All
three showed professionalism and were very businesslike. The full time.
professional staff recruited at the beginning of the ICF program provided the
continuity but left ICF at the end of project cycle to take up greater
responsibility within the CBB. The new full time professional staff brought
with him considerable experience in economic research and quickly grasped the
workings of the ICF. The management and staff of ICF maintained good working
relationships with PFIs, other units in CBB and Bank staff. CBB management
had keen interest in successful implementation of ICF scheme and helped
promote the ICF program. ICF has not experienced defaults by PFIs and has
negligible debt. Also, ICF has kept its operating costs relatively small.
Thus, its profitability has been high with return on average total assets of
about 7% in 1990. On the whole, the credit component was carried out well.
But, ICF could have initiated actions much earlier to use a computer for
keeping/updating subproject data to assess the economic impact of subprojects
on a systematic basis. Also, ICF could have been more rigorous in following
up the Bank supervision missions' recommendations that BDB be requested to
prepare a brief statement on each unsatisfactory ICF/BDB subloan, describing
current status and nature/gravity of problems and actions taken (or to be
taken) to deal with those problems.
10.       Prolect Relationship
10.1      Bank relationship with the Government on the project has been good.
Despite changes in the ICF's management (and the full time professional at the
end of project cycle), Bank relationship with the CBB/ICF has been amiable.



- 9 -
ICF seemed to have maintained good working relationships with PFIs and private
sector groups.
11.       Consulting Services
11.1      Need for technical assistance for helping ICF did not arise.  Two
consulting firms were selected to undertake studies on the tourism industry,
and export competitiveness and marketing under terms of reference which were
agreed with the Bank (para. 5.1). Despite delay, results of export
competitiveness and marketing studies have provided the base for ongoing
policy dialogue between the Bank and the Government on measures for restoring
international competitiveness.
12.       Prolect Documentation and Data
12.1      The Loan Agreement and Project Agreement were appropriate for
achieving project objectives in the key areas. The staff appraisal report
provided a useful framework for both Bank, the Government and CBB/ICF during
project implementation. Information on actual performance of subprojects,
particularly smaller ones, was not readily available. ICF has recently
started using a computer for storing and updating data on subprojects.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAR)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT FUND
Introduction
The Industrial Credit Fund has been requested as agent for the Government of
Barbados (the Borrower) to prepare Part II of the Completion Report on the
Industrial Credit Project (2260-BAR). Part II is an analytical report on the
design and effectiveness of the project and lessons learnt.
Adequacy of Part III (Presentation of Statistics)
Part III of the completion report fairly presents the factual information.
Summary Statement on behalf of the Borrower
The project coincided with a weak economy necessitating IMF support and
foreign borrowing of US$250 million between 1983 and 1990. The Borrower is
pleased with the outcome of the project, given its small size and micro-
economic orientation, and the weakness of the economy. The main
accomplishment was the establishment of a viable, profitable and sustainable
Industrial Credit Fund, which complements the network of finance and
development institutions in Barbados. The ICF has become an institutional
model which the Borrower will definitely be retaining largely in its present
form. The working relationship with the World Bank remains amicable.
Relationship of the World Bank and Barbados
The relationship of the World Bank, the Borrower and the Central Bank has been
amicable; the rather significant level of collaboration achieved contributed
to the successful implementation of the project.
Performance of the World Bank
The performance of the World Bank has been exemplary and the ICF is pleased to
have collaborated on this fairly successful undertaking. The World Bank's
main role was one of guidance in laying the groundwork for the operational
systems and policies of the ICF and facilitating the solution of problems as
they arose. The problems encountered were manageable and are stated for the
record, only at the World Bank's request.



- 12 -
Frequent re-assignment of World Bank personnel resulted initially in a loss of
continuity and personal contact. However, this situation improved
considerably after the appointment of the current Task Manager who has
remained with the project for a long period, with obvious energy and
enthusiasm.
Performance of the Borrower (Barbados)
The Central Bank contributed US$1.28 million of an agreed US$2.0 million to
the capital of the ICF to cover start-up costs and liquidity needs of the
project. Fortunately, the ICF has been able to maintain a high level of
liquidity, and no further injections of capital from this source have been
necessary. This reflects the fact that operating costs have been kept to a
small fraction of investment income, and all intermediaries have been
servicing their accounts promptly. Key indicators of the viability of the IGF
are its net income, currently in excess of US$1.0 million per year, and
accumulated earnings of US$3.8 million over its first seven years of
operation.
The fact that the ICF is housed within the Central Bank has contributed to its
ability to keep costs down while benefitting from the guidance, experience and
financial discipline of the organisation's senior management team. The
Central Bank does not favour a hard-sell approach or project selection and
development by the ICF; this has enabled the latter to maintain a needed
dispassionate view for appraisal purposes.
Sustainabilitv and Lessons Learned
The continued success of the project requires that other agencies develop the
willingness and capability to promote, stimulate and monitor private sector
projects within relevant economic sectors. These functions are important but
cannot be accommodated within the current structure of the ICF as the
administrative burden arising from procedural requirements is already great.
The ICF has now acquired the confidence and capability to expand the scope of
its operations; it is intended to accommodate venture capital arrangements and
inflows of funds from several lending agencies using similar, but not
identical, criteria and procedures. With an investment portfolio of US$15
million (and growing), anticipated credit lines from several sources and an
expansion of the nature of services provided, more flexible Agreements need to
be negotiated.
ICF funds are mainly attractive in periods of tight liquidity, and with large
projects where administrative cost can be spread over a larger loan amount.
This is the reason why in general private commercial banks request discounts
only for their largest projects; the smaller projects have been presented
mainly by the Barbados Development Bank where liquidity needs are greater.
Flexibility is required to enable intermediaries and beneficiaries to acquire
funds at more competitive rates, particularly when the ICF is highly liquid.
In place of the rigid formula of 2X below prime, the ICF believes the rate
should vary between 2Z and 32 below prime after consideration of borrowing



- 13 -
cost of intermediaries and the Borrower. (At present the nominal cost of
funds to intermediaries is 6.0% and the World Bank lending rate is 7.73% while
the ICF lending rate is 8.3%.) The formula for determining the ICF interest
rate could also reflect the premium placed on export earnings at this time.
The financial health of some intermediaries may have been affected by the
weakness of the economy over the project period. The ICF is sympathetic to
the need for financial soundness criteria, provided these are not designed or
implemented in a manner which frustrates the national goal of establishing and
strengthening indigenous financial intermediaries. The ICF has been
instrumental in quietly influencing the latter to reduce exposure in problem
areas such as fishing. As a result, the proportion of their sub-loan
portfolio in arrears has been contained and is expected to gradually decline.



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAR)
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan                                              Year of
No.       Title               Purpose             Approval      Status         Comments
1813      Industrial    To expand industrial    1980         Closed in      Final
Development   output and exports,                  September      disbursements
and Export    to generate                          1985.          totalled US$8.85
Promotion      increasing levels of                               million and the
Project        employment and to                                  unused balance of
strengthen the main                                US$1.15 million
institutions                                       was cancelled.
responsible for                                    Project was closed
promoting industrial                               two years later
development in                                     than the planned
Barbados.                                          date.



- 16 -
Page 1 of 2
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAR)
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date               Date                 Date
Item                       Planned            Revlsed              Actual
Identification              5/82               -                   5/23/82-5/28/82
Project Brief               6/82            8/82                   8/4/82
Preparation                 7/82               -                   7/11/82-7/15/82
Appraisal                   9/82                -                  9/20/82-10/3/82
Loan Negotiations           3/10/83            -                   3/10/83
Board Approval              4/12/83             -                  4/12/83
Loan Signature              4/22/83            -                   4/22/83
Loan Effectiveness          8-9/83             -                   9/30/83
Final Date for Subproject  6/30/87
Submission                                                        6/30/88
Loan Closing                12/31/87        12/88 a/, 12/89        7/31/90
Last Disbursement           12/31/87           -                   8/8/90
a/    Further revisions of the Closing Date were necessary due to the delay in
commitments and disbursements of funds for the TA component, which
constituted less than five percent of the total loan amount.
Comments (Issues raised at the time of preparation, appraisal, decision meeting
and Loan Committe)
Preparation.       The Project Brief raised three issues: (a) need for creating a
Permanent Fund in the Central Bank; (b) need for the Central
Bank to hire an experienced person in project appraisal; and
(c) BDB's request for the Bank to earmark some portion of Bank
resources for its exclusive use. (Item (c) was not accepted.)
Appraisal.         Issues paper discussed two issues: (a) the possibility that
discount rate resulting from two percentage points below the
commercial banks' weighted average prime rate may be below the
Bank's lending rate particularly in a period of rapidly falling
interest rates in world markets; and (b) use of loan proceeds
for hiring of an expatriate consultant to manage the Fund for
about 2 years.



- 17 -
Page 2 of 2
Decision Meeting. In addition to the issues raised in the Issues Paper, the
Decision Meeting addressed the following issues: (a)
possibility that a large part of the Bank loan might be lent
for working capital loans; and (b) need for amending the
Central Bank Act to enable the Central Bank to engage in the
term loan discounting operations.
Loan Committee.   During the period of Loan Committee review, questions and
comments were focused on: (a) the high level of arrears of the
Barbados Development Bank (BDB) and desirability of having and
monitoring specific annual targets for the reduction of BDB's
arrears; (b) appraisal criteria--only viable enterprises and
sound projects would be eligible for financing under the
project; and (c) working capital subloans-- suboans may not be
used to refinance an existing loan, but they would not be
necessarily tied to additional fixed assets' investments.



- 18 -
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAR)
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSSMENTS
(USs' 000)
Appraisal                    Actual (2)
Estimate        Actual       Estimate
FY84
September 30, 1983                                                 300             26              8.7
December 31, 1983                                                  700             26              8.7
March 31, 1984                                                    1,200           544             45.3
June 30, 1984                                                    1,700            572             33.7
FY85
September 30, 1984                                               2,300            596             25.9
December 31, 1984                                                2,900          1,421             49.0
March 31, 1985                                                   3,500          2,687             76.8
June 30, 1985                                                    4,100          3,375             82.3
FY86
September 30, 1985                                               4,700          3,957             84.2
December 31, 1985                                                5,300          4,716             89.0
March 31, 1986                                                   5,900          5,163             87.5
June 30, 1986                                                    6,500          5,259             80.9
FY87
September 30, 1986                                               7,100          5,336             75.2
December 31, 1986                                                7,800          5,924             76.0
March 31, 1987                                                   8,500          5,924             70.0
June 30, 1987                                                    9,200          7,028             76.4
FY88
September 30, 1987                                               9,900          7,028             71.0
December 31, 1987                                               10.500          8,206             78.2
March 31, 1988                                                                  8,206             78.2
June 30, 1988                                                                   8,548            81.4
FY89
December 31, 1988                                                               9,048             86.2
June 30, 1989                                                                   9,844             93.8
FY90
December 31, 1989                                                               9,844             93.8
June 10, 1990                                                                  10,272             97.8
FY91
September 30, 1990                                                             10,318 a/          98.3
Date of Final Disbursement: August 8, 1990 b/
a/     The loan amount of US$182,395 was cancelled as of November 30, 1990.
b/      The final disbursement of the credit component, comprising about 95 percent of the
loan amount, was made on February 13, 1989.



- 19 -
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAR)
Table 4: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Covenant                                    Subject                                             Status
Loan Agreement a/
6.01(a)                 CBB shall establish ICF and thereafter maintain, in                    In compliance
a form and with staffing and functions satisfactory
to the Bank.
(b)                CBB shall appoint, and assign to ICF, a manager                        Complied
whose qualifications and experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
(c)                 CBB's Board of Directors shall approve the Statement                  Complied
of Policies satisfactory to the Bank.
(d)                 The Subsidiary Financing Agreement to be executed                     Complied
and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and CBB.
(e)                At least one Participating Agreement has to be duly                    Complied
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
actions.
Project Agreement
2.02 (b)(i)             Loan application for a subloan above the free limit                   Complied
shall include calculation of the FRR and ERR.
(d)               Subloan applications to be presented to the Bank on                    Deadline had to
or before June 30, 1987.                                              be extended to
June 30, 1988.
2.04 (a)                CBB shall furnish to the Bank a progress report at                    Complied
regular intervals.
(b)               CBB shall furnish to the Bank a Project Completion                     Complied
Report within six months of the last withdrawal from                  (June 26, 1991)
the Loan Account.
2.05 (b)                CBB shall furnish to the Bank for its comments the                    Cnmplied
studies upon their completion.
2.07 (c)                CBB shall review with the Bank at least  yearly the                   Complied
interest rates for ICF lending.
3.02                    CBB shall furnish to the Bank not later than four                     Complied
months after the end of each fiscal year ICF's                        (sometimes with
audited accounts and financial statements.                            delay).
a/      All these events were additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.  They
were met on September 30, 1983 (instead of the planned date of July 21, 1983).



- 20 -
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAR)
Table 5: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Innuts
(Staffweeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                           Planned              Revised               Final
Through Appraisal                                                                            24.3
Appraisal through
Board Approval                                                                               1.1
Board Approval
through Effectiveness
Supervision                                        (18.0)a/                                  41.4
(13.3)a/
Total                                                                                        66.8
1/ Relates to FY88 through FY91.
Comments No information on planned staff inputs is available for the years prior to FY88. Actual
staff inputs for supervision were adequate during FY84-88 with the average staff weeks per year of 5.6
weeks.  The average for FY89-91 dropped to 2.5 weeks mainly because disbursements under the credit
component were substantially completed before the end of FY88.
B. Missions
Stage of                      Month/      No. of     Staffdays        Specialization         Performance            Types of
Project Cycle                 Year      Persons      in Field           Represented         Rating Statusa/      Problems_b/
Through AppraisaL             9/82          3            30         Develop. Finance
Economist
Appraisal Through
Board Approval                12/82         1            4          Develop. Finance
4/83          1           5           Develop. Finance
Board Approval
through Effectiveness         9/83          -
Supervision                   11/83         2            10         Develop. Finance             1                 n/s
4/85          2           22 S/           "      "                1                 n/s
6/86         2            16 /            "                       I'                 n/s
2/87          1            5              "      "                2                 h,F g/
11/87        1             5              "      "                24,
3/88 #/       1            5                     "                2 g/              h,F g/ g/
3/91 fj       1            3              J      "                29/               M,F !  g
f       SKey to status: 1 - problem free or minor pr.hlems, 2   moderate problems
y/      Key to problems: F - Financial, N  manager  ., n/s - not specified
g/      Same mission supervised two other Bank proje..s.
g/      Relates only to ICF/BDB's portfolio of the subloans.
S/      Almost the entire credit component, which constituted about 95 percent of the total loan amount, was comitted by
June 30, 1988.
1/      Between March 1988 and March 1991 supervision was carried out by Bank missions dealing with the preparation of
future projects.
9/      information is derived from Form 590, updated as of June 30, 1989 and June 30, 1990.



- 21 -
INDUSTR'AL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAR)
Table 6.1: OVERVIEW OF SUBPROJECTS
Financing       Ave.
Of       Size
Est.           which      IBRD
Industrial         No. of       Proj.     ICF  IBRD       Loan
PFI       Sector/Subsector   Subprojects   Cost        -(US$ mil)-   (US$'000)
BNS      Tourism: Hotel              1        7.50      1.25   1.14      1144
CCB      Manufacturing               2        4.44     1.67   0.84        420
BNB      Agro-Industry               1        1.38     0.48   0.34        343
CIBC     Tourism: Service            1        2.13      1.50   1.35      1346
Manufacturing;Cosmetics   1         1.79      1.25   1.17      1167
Agro-Industry               1       1.25      0.53   0.47       472
BARC     Tourism: Hotel              2        4.78     2.00   1.83        916
Manufacturing: Rum          1       0.82      0.59   0.53       533
RBC      Manufacturing               2        1.22     0.40   0.39        197
Agro-Industry               1       0.07      0.05   0.05        45
BDB      Fisheries                  24        0.71     0.35   0.30         13
Tourism: Taxi             74        1.14      0.66   0.58         8
Tourism: Service           2        0.02      0.01   0.01         6
Tourism: Hotel              1       0.01      0.004  0.003        3
Manufacturing              17       1.12      0.77   0.68        40
Mining                      1       0.19      0.11   0.10        97
Services                    1       0.02      0.02   0.01        14
Total               133       28.59    11.64   9.82         74



- 22 -
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAR)
Table 6.2: INSTITUTIONAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRIBUTIONS OF SUBPROJECTS
Average
Subloan   Subloan        2 Distribution
No. of      Amount      Size       No. of     Subloan
Distribution                  Subproj.    tUS$m)   (US$'OOO)   Subproj.   Amount
By Institution
BNS:  Bank of Nova Scotia              1        1.14       1144         0.7         11.6
CCB:  Caribbean Commercial Bank        2        0.84        420         1.5         8.6
BNB:  Barbados National Bank           1        C0.34       343         0.7         3.5
CIBC: Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce                      3         2.99        995        2.3         30.4
BARC: Barclays Bank PLC                3        2.36        787         2.3        24.0
RBC:  Royal Bank of Canada             3        0.44        147         2.3          4.5
BDB:  Barbados Development Bank    120           1.68        14        90.2         17.4
Total                       133         9.82         74      100.0        100.0
By Industrial Sector
Manufacturing                         23         3.62       163        17.3         36.9
Fisheries                             24        0.30         13        18.2          3.1
Agro-Industry                          3        0.86        287         2.3          8.8
Tourism: Taxi                         74        0.58          8        55.6         5.9
Tourism: Hotel                         4        2.98        745         3.0        30.3
Tourism: Services                      3        1.36        453         2.3         13.8
(Tourism - Total)                    (81)      (4.92)       (61)      (61.4)      (50.1)
Mining                                 1        0.10         97         0.7          1.0
Services                               1        0.01         14         0.7         0.1
Total                       133         9.82         74      100.0        100.0



- 23 -
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAK)
Table 6.3: CHARACTERISTICS OF LARGE SUBPROJECTS
~~~~~~~~.                                          saa          rr                                  iD.s aS Ul@
cm  W  PDW 6   A..u..uI _        t       Gimum  a mSt    PasOs
U I/    LWl 000)    cato   OM 00)   Pei.d-   urIi 1 tw   ()                  P
(WI 00)                                    (_-ha)  VImr)
£.41     *- ~,tS41U,I.0 Ltd.                  £gtIAdUOhu7        1860.0    .s63.8  32/32/86    4Th 49          38      18.0       9.9       cua
A42      Ladwu61.A Paam9e Lad.                       in          16.5       800.0  68               .17        12       7.0       12.0       C
£43      ab.bdun CUU. Peedss n,et Ltd.        S*iwn       g "-176.          10.0  v/861"        18.5           12       5.0       18.5      cuc
£44      Imdp 6w ""Al LUt.                    Tourism            2177.8     20.0  0/31/44        06S."          9       5.0        4.5      Sc
£45      ww%  51. * hu 3f1t                      g futul 21.0                 60.O  I/26164      M."          34       8.0       10.4      IAC
£46  bphdm  Plghth KItduwa LOd.          Touism             218.0      3413.0  18/10/04   1831.11          12     18.0       10.4      CIsC
£407    ftidim.       k Ld.                   Tepla              8600.0    2800.0  7/7/a         41.11         U        5.0       18.4      SWC
A-6      Pibotmgg4 Ltd.                       Twigs              130.0      26O0.0  61313?    11.0?             4      2o.0        9.6.
A."      coCem0t 644.6.. AU.                  igreiedumtw       S119.0      43    12/53          4044           2       7.0       18.0
£-10     @g.4 @6wfodtwPi   Co. Ltd.            hunfm4uvia        8 69.0      80.0  9/2n1          .42 d                 7.8       .2 c9.
.WT     bshudm. 34eo ia VW Vied.. l.s..S*m* fOM(taiti"l          841.0      9.0  31013          38.00         24      18u.0      18o.0     an
TAL                                                   8014.5      9 .0                  19.,         -         -         -
1/6tm md S,jt sets so" IggIp hbond so five cotracts.
Imu     mme @86"Im assh of 3.4,4.sad LAC Plile.



- 24 -
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAR)
Table 6.4:   ACTUAL PERFORMANCE OF SUBPROJECTS
cca                               "Wal~~~~~~~~~*~a  
0'                0 8             _4                                 ..W    T
Ce                                            Za..        aa      bt.   ~.
01-_O"X t;" :z. ebaufs4     LU.                               7     8 U      7        7.1          Ue   no           II.8      4.9
A-U        1a*1,IsI fth_u.e LU.                      0       s0    20        o        2.S20        Om0        1o      U.?7    82.8
£Cemtie P'ete Ld.                0        50    20      so.620               4.111110o             1.        5.2
A-@'       Imdi    Ho te Lad.                      mN        11     so      so        1.00      IS.=        1.710    18.7      49.0
£46       wvst 1adi. P. NeiaeT                      70       so      0    -10         8.760      2,4          1        4.2  U    .
A46         b#de Pi ies Kt Nt". aM.                W         U  t1 4S       0 /      5.700      1,70         am      1.3      20.8
A-C;      Plendles awash .                         370       M70 2/ 15       0        $.7        5.13        (MO)   83.6       X7.2
AS         Pi.t lewarm Lu.                           0       no    so    MO           *,"       7,621      LVIT    11.9       18.6
A."        C ome Sbletes LU .                        0        *    12                                       *(
A-So       &*o,f Psoemowpla  Co. La.                6        187     0 o37            1.M       23.Mo       1.110    43.0      83.0
10-71   _   W9adm a.e.ieN  wdinde sheds             so        40  *         10         1.20   _      _         80    it.7      17.1
robot                                  693    1.419 *0,         485       6,624    4511182 &8W
21  At'sk P"   Ca rs mom)    ---We   bd no3 -ifess  WAd ekA    mtgd Ua mc, jobs.
2/ A  eek. _he      MA _0  u_nlwee,.



Table 6.5: DETAILED LIST OF ALL SUBPROJECTS BY SECTOR/SUBSECTOR
ESFDlTE     ETDITW
aepin                 Suomi=m                    MTIHIA        la,             1                   TO6  O SUIUUI             BL 4    9 mu .tlB
cue                                           ui=    P13aDE           Apprevel  Amoun       Grace  floepsymoth Intereeb      Pro       PoeS         MM OF
COST      DM 000)       D"   OD 000)        Period   Period   Note (s)      Tnvent.    Invest.       pWI
0S  0DO)                                    (I0-te)   (leer.)
6-7e Stre Cmu,ht                                     80.0       4.0    /26/6          40.6         12         7       15.0                               as
16-2        6,Ven Adan                                9.0        6.8 I12/66           5.7           I        6.8      18.0           2         t
0-44        C.ttI Sh_                                20.0        8.4   g/216/          8.0          6        *.S     1.0            I                  0D
0-80        David Crenep                              4.0        2.6   91/614         2.6           a       5.6       13.0           1                    S
0-91        Owelee sewifed                           84.5       0.6   12/5/35        20.9                   6.8       10.0                               o
6-49        U-aIZN Th_*mme/itfield                    6.0        5.1   9/21           4.6           I        5.8     13.0 
0-SI        0.34 Irr.e"                              10.5        8.5   5/1o04         8.2                    5.8      131.0                             U
3-12        Ives Lejpe                               13.0        6.7  S3/6            7.9                   5.s       18.0           2                  ID
0-145       Jeffrey Nine                             47.8       16.0   2/19/88       14.4           0       5.8       11.5           1                  US
1131        Jon woNe                                100.0        6.0   1/8/           7.2          12   a .6          13 0           2          1        S
11-44       Jmegh Sreweed                           121.0       60.5   1/21/6        67.0)         12         7       18.0           2          1       US
O-21        h.w& Sbi                                 H6.*        6.0   6/10/I4        5.4          12       5.s       18.0           I                  E
S-S1        Larlia lerd                              12.5        6.6   9/2/6          7.9          12       5.8      t3.0            I                  US
0-18        Sheita Jako                               0.5        6.6   2/704          C.2           a       8.8       18.0           1                  US
0-74         o"rOo Cholane                            1.1        1.2   8/2/6  .       1.0          12       5.3       18.0          2                   we
0-38        Hopy Ifrlel                               7.8        6.1  9In/2           4.5           6       8.8       13.0           I                  we
FtS         it"phon Con                              10.0       34.4   S/2/87        19.3           7       8.8       18.0          2                   we
6-6         Spiweate  Heerd                          11.0        4.9   2/7/34         4.5           9        .8       16.0 
0-0         Splveeter Howard                         to.8        6.1   1/21/66        5.5           6       6.        18.0          2                   ID
0-144       sglmeterjlkr.ll.  N                      46.0       88.0   2/19/6        80.6           6       5.8       11.5                      2         NS
3-146       Trevor bile,                             48.0       81.6   /191/6        261.4          *       7.8       11.5                      2       Km
1-98        Trnoq Clarke                             s6.0       40.0   U/Sin         86.0           9       0.8       15.0                      2        e
0S-6        Ven.n rHoe                               19.2        7.6    MS//          6.6          10       *.8       U.10                      2       w
l-to        wilfred A Samuel FIrArbe                 10.0        6.0   $/101/4        5.4           6       8.8      1U.0           2                   ID
Ukl-TOAL                                700.2      646.0                802.1                                                      11
ThRMISI
Tesl
0-86        Ahead PateSl                             21.        11.4    0J/2164      10.4           4       5.8       15.0                              we
0-152       AlDge Heedle                            17.8       12.4   02/19/6       11.1           6       5.8      16.0            I                  IS
0-2S        Anthny Troekn                            21.6        6.5   05/10/84       6.0           9       5.8       18.0                      1       we
0-17        SelfIe.5 Seely                            9.3        7.4   02/07/64       6.6           6       8.8       18.0          1                   we
S-U         Bryon Oegl-                              32.0        7.0   01/213/        6.8           3       6.8      13.0           2                   we
0-23        Srge. awls                               11.6        7.0   05/10/64       6.3           3       5.3      18.0           I                   we
0-90        CerlIee oena                             10.4        7.0  0"/6            6.8           9       5.8   I3.0              1                   we
0-130       CeeSlielbnte               r27.6                    17.6   se/Ws?        16.1           6       8.8      23.0           2                   we
0-127       Gerlee PI4grIn                           15.6       12.4  06/20/67        9.1           *       8.8      13.0           1           1       Kg
4-10         uriestephr SeeSl                        10.2        6.4   02107fS4       5.4           a       5.8      1U.0            I                  ED
*-1I4       Clyde lEeteon4                           20.6        7.0   06(5/7         6.4           a       8.*       33.0           1                  we
6-81        Dermley C*elender                        11.0        4.6   09I21/64       4.8           6       5.3       28.0           a                  ED
IS-         Oe4 Ohre ole"pl                          16.7       11.7   12/14/67      10.5           a *.3             10.0           1                   Dll



5TIITED   ESTD4ATED
S3PW0.7                  BTD4ATE0      It       P II                 I ID To mOF OULOA4               UBnor       9    JS85
cow                                         JUIPRWSO.    PDW6DI      APrwSal  Asuat        crag#   *epsymat law**e          Pro      Pet          NMVE OF
CStsr     (US$ O)      Dsu   (m 000)       PeDrled     P     Rase () IInvest.    Invest.           rpP
meD 000)                                   (Mntha)   (Year.)
6-1        David Daqla0                             11.6        7.2   00/2/017       6.6           9       6.8      18.0                      1
o-12        DavId ftrde.                            66.7       45.0   06/28/67      37.8           7       6.8      18.0           2          1       we
0-166       Earl Clarke                             17.6       12.1   J1/14/87      10.9           6       8.a      18.0           I          1       U
11-48        le Stuart                              12.2        4.C   00/21/84       4.4                   6.       18.0           I         I1W
6 -26       641.0 week..                            10.9        8.8   06/10/64       4.7                   6.       18.0           1                  we
-100        Weis Love                               11.0 19.8   08/2/0               8. 6p0                5.3      18.0           I          1       Kw
1-891       Snowr SBe"                              13.0        8.0   12/056/6       4.6           0       5.6      U.0            2
6-40        S.Ic C   lce                            10.6        6.    09/21/64       5.7                   8 .8     18.0           1         D
3-181       gri. Pitt                               20.6       11.6   00/19/6       10.4           9       8.8      18.0           1
3-100       brie VI ImIr                             38.0       6.8   Oa/0/07        6.7           4       6.3      16.0                      1        m
6-126       baeat Oplea                             17.0       10.0   06/28/67       9.7           6       6.8      1.0            1 
wn11U       belpe Hilnd                             11J.4      10.0   08/20/67       9.0           J       8.J      18.0           I                  U
6-188       babe.ce   1" W4.S                                  9.7   12/14/8?       .r            *       3.       13.0           I 
6-84         lt'I -a4rberhtG en                     -11.8       6.0   06/10/64       6.4                   6.8      18.0           a                  U
6186        Fr"cIall3..                             14.2        8.4   11/14/67        .6                   6.6      18.0           1          I       US
6-76        FrOderIck  1Me                          18.8        6.6   06/2/66        6.9           3       1.8      18.0                              U
t-0         boId GRAkIN                             11.7        6.0   00/071/4       5.4           3       5.8      18.0           1          2       US
t-6         Oa_rge 2bprd                            11.2        8.6   O/21/4         6.0                   5.9      1U.0           1                  we
6-28        barg  stgeem,                            9.9        4.8   01/10/34       4.1           *       8.8      18.0           1          0       U
II-in       osdr, Soua 108.7                                   11.0   08/20/67       9.9           6       8.3      18.0           1                  U
611,41      Or. Stamford                            16.8        9.3   06/25f/7       6.8                   *.a      1.0            1                  w
1-42       Hlll ImbVrrll                           11.4        8.9  9121/34         6.3           6        .8      18.0           1                  U
3-1M       lbrlag Con                              12.2        6.8  0/28/87        7.8                   6.8      3130.0                    a       OU
6114         Aerkart                                15.5       10.0   08//s67        9.0           6       8.8      18.0                      1       U
will       Hbearth Wrroll                            W.         9.4   04/T           9.6          10       6.0      18.0                      1       we
II-Io       SkI.. L"reec                            17.6       10.1   02/16/80       9.1           4       6.8      38.0                      1       US
-108        Ivan Leacack                            10.7        7.6   08/20/67       7.0           *        .8      18.0 
3-118       Jatrfe  Con                             U.2        10.0  0O/20/?7        9.0           6       6.8      U.0            1                  US
6-148       JAN Oratpk.                             1U.0        0.1   02/19/6        7.8           4       5.8      18.0           1
341         _maeh  Orl_geM                          11.1        6.7   09/21/34       e.1           6       4.4      18.0           1                  US
6-106      KIth Coils"                              12.7        0.4   08/20/67       7.6           6       6.8      18.0                              w US
3-110      Keaeley feala                             9.J        t.6   03/2/07        6.J           a       5.8      18.0                      1       IN
3-102       Lonard albos                            19.7       12.4   08/20/6?      11.4          12       8.       18.0           1                    II
1-61       L.rar Cedoe-                             12.4        7.0   01/21/66       0.3           6       4.8      18.0           1                  N
-1414      Loer  Clark*                             20.0        9.9   02/19/66       6.9           0        .8      18.0                      I       I  9
3-1111     Loom Klam                                16.0       12.0   020/67        10.6           I       5.3      18.0           1         O
w1it       Lise Ward                                 6.2   1    6.8   02/07/34       5.7           S       4.8      15.0           1                  we
3-2-1 22     vIegate Srathwelt.                     12.6       10.0   06//017        9.2           a       5.8      18.0                      I O
3-14       L3vleaat  Preced                         10.9        6.6   02/07/6        8.9          0        8.8      33.0           I                  we
6-22        Lleyd Ordevee                           12.9        6.3   06/10/64   J .7              6   J .J         21.0           1    I     o 
6-39       lbadalon* "Drn                           1386        9.7   GO/25/6        t.9           I       6.8      t3.0           1                  US
6-189      l arlta Le                               14.7       10.6   12/14/67       9.2           6       8.8      25.0           I                  w US
6-149       MIctheel Cm.kerb*tU                     14.7        J.4   02/19/66       7.7           6       5.a      13.0                      1       we
3-60       NIgel geometer                           10.2        6.4   01(213/        4.9           I       6.8      11.0           1                  we
3-101       Sledee featursnt                        69.5       22.5   12/06/86      20.8          12       8.8      18.0                      a       Us
3-75        Olsen Bleade.                           14.5       10.0   08/26/6S       9.0           0       6.3      29.0                      1       wD



'-T'DID   ESTIAT0ED
sinS.wT                 stmflir                    WrnaTW          ICu             low                   T53  OF SLLAD       I      BR DTS W IIF    0 dm .BS
CODE                                           SSffl.t   FDWC4 II   AprovaIl  Amnt               Croce   Repsymebn  Inforet         Pro       Poet        NK* OF
COST       (156 000)     Date   Ms OD)       Pefiod    period    Reto (S)      Inw         Enot.          Pf
(566  000)                                    (Hot),)   (Years)
*-27        Oliver Rilhered                             10.2         8.8   06/10/64        4.7           *        8.3       18.0            1                   we8
*-120       Orlal DoI1                                  17.I        11.1   06/28/0?       10.0            6       8.8       13.0            1                   OND
*-24          ieuld S3ll                                11.4         5.8   08/10/64        4.7            9       8.8       13.0            I          0        am
3-89        Cum ArUwr                                   12.4        8.6   01/21/66         *.0            6       4.8       18.0            1                   as
I3-"        Baen Nirtom                                 20.9        8.3   0912114 U    4.7               6        5.J       11.0                                we8
*-128       RIlphb b13                                  11.0         7.2   a/2B/e?         6.b            6       8.8       18.0            I                   me8
6-132       Reuben Jordon                               16.8        11.2   12/14/7        10.1            S       5.a       13.0                        1       me
6-14?       Stephen Lords                              23.4         6.8   02/19/6          6.6           *        6.8       1.0                         I       w0e
o-91        St. Clair Syo                               28.5        e.8   12/0/6           7.6           6        8.8       28.0            1                   we
D-12        Sylvester Selne                             7.6        8.8   02/07/64         0.2           6        8.8      1I.0             1                   we6
3-"6         Treeor Sells                               13.8        6.0   09/2/64          7.2           b        8.3       18.0                        1       we
6-66        Vd14a 1cesee                                12.8        5.8   01/06w           4.7           6        8.8       13.0                        1       006
0-47        Vero" Prosper                               10.6        8.6    09/21/64        8.1           6        8.3       13.0            1                   006
3-181       WIfred tSIulln                              44.6       24.0  068/6?          14.7           9        4.5       16.0            1                   00 
3-34         WInstom l0arra                              9.8         6.0   01/21/86        5.4           6        8.6       18.0            I                  me8
(1186.8)    (661.1)                (35.)) (88)
Serv Icoo
A-06        Sarbodee Flight Xi dico Lt.               2130.0     149.0   10/10/64        J46.1         12         10       10.4           98         45        CIOC
3S-20       Lew.a Pergiede                              19.9        10.6   0$/10/64        9.6           6        8.8       18.0           2           2        00
8-82        VWItortt lhoaeo                              4.8         5.0   12/08/4U        2.7           9        4.8       18.0            4                   we8
(2184.2)   (1811.5)               (1888.8)                                                      (47)
Hotels
*-64         Zr"..V WI "ib  to                          8.4         8.8    01/2/"          3.4           9        6.6       13.0           4                    me8
A-07        Peredia  fech Ltd.                        2600.0    t100.0   07/07/6        0U8.5           86        8.0       10.4          270          i8       WC
a-09        RageSl fivllilon                          700.0      12S0.0   Ol9/1I3   1144.1              24         10        r.6                     210        me
Jl-04       Seedy Say Hotel LU.                       2117.6     1000.0  0131164        963.1           9          S        9.8         828          Be        BARC
(22262.9)    (3253.6)              (2979.0)                                                      (283)
SU3-TUrAL                               15873.4      6426.8                4921.9                                                       M88
KIMFACIUltQ
A-80        Barbados C6ooic Prodocto Ltd.             179.5       1250.0   07/28/U      1136.5          22 U                10.8           0          20        CDIC
0-94        Caribbean Candle Co.                        45.0        80.0   12/06          47.0          24         12       25.0                       2        BD8
3-95        Chillenor Jonee                             22.0        12.0   12/08/81       10.8           0        5.3       13.6            3                   we
S-I37       Corbln Construct)on Servicee                68.4        38.3   12114/67       30.0           9        8.9       11.68                               D
*-100       George Staph  eno                           14.8        3.0   12//06/4         7.2           I        4.6       13.0            1          I        51e
3-66        HinU. Trineport Co.                         96.8       07.8    oi 0/          60.6           a         .3       18.0           48          2        MM
A-02        Ind..strlI  Pachagea Ltd.                 3096.5       800.0   06/08/        303.68         12          7       12.0                      20        RaBC



ESTIOTED    ESTD^TED
SU3. .W?T        6      1101WRJECT                 STD4ATI         I0F             lW                    TERMS OF SUtLOANS          96L0514T   I NM JOB5
CODE                                           StaROJT    FD4WCDQO   Aproval  Aomut              Oraes   Repayment Iterees         Pro       Pot          MAINE OF
COST      (UN 000)      Oat.  Om 000)         Period   Perio    Matk (5)       Inv.st.     in..s.         Wfl
(L5i 000)                                                 (Yertl)  str)
&-99        J Jeffrp  Slackso                           17.1        14.0   1210611        12.2           9        5.6       13.0            2          2        aE
A-10        Sbaert  d act"Uris Co. Ld.                3995.0      1350.0   09115/OS      1O1.4                    7.6                                  0        Ct2
a-n2        Stanljs Cerbin                              6.1         6.9   12105/80        6.2            6       6.3       13.0            3           1 SU
A-OS        Weet gndi RPu Refinesr                     619.0      690.0   09/26/64       632.6          24          6       10.4           70          0        MARC
301         U.m. Conetruction A  mrrios Ltd.           125.0      100.0   02/07/04        90.1           12         6       12.3          140          2        RIC
S-IS        Aqua Sol Coegoeseta Lt.                     10.0         6.3   05/10/84        5.7           S          4       13.0                       9        we
0-71        Olde Dropsreol A Wind. Ltd.                394.0      260.0   02/06/8        260.0          24         16       13.0           30          *        we
5-66        Cerelbilen Ceodie Co.                      191.0       110.0   01/21/80      106.2           24        12       13.0                        1       as
1-04        Car iel Tretm_n                              21.        2.0   02/07/84         1.6           I 6      6.        1.0             1           1       we
S40          Cat Printery                              140.5       11l.0   03/2/16l      106.3           12        11       13.0           30                   we
I-eS        Dsbo.sb Cozier                              12.2         a.6   01/21/00        7.7           a        6.3       13.0            2                   an
8-a7        Everor  Ford.                                7.2        3.9   01/21/Uf         3.5           6        5.3       13.0            1                   we
3-7?         Joepb tettlie                              40.0       23.0   03/28/66        25.2           *        6.3       13.0                                we
2-33        L. Glades A it. it,11e14                    21.S        10.0   06110/64        6.8           6        6.3       13.0            2                   we
1-79        Pierce fraliture & frnbihl"ngs Lt..         s8.5       29.2   03/26/U8        21.1           52 0.3             13.0                                we
S-lS        treolcal SBevrsess Ltd.                    450.0      320.0                   37.0           *         16         11           3 
3S.3-TOTAL                               9381.6      46.0                  322                                                            67
5-67        Seringtield Wining Ce. L4d.                194.0       106.9   12/14/67       96.0           4         12       11.6            4                    We
3-63        Atlantia Fiimne.re Ltd.                     73.0       50.0   IO/OS/"         46.3                      7       12.3           SO                   RSC
A-01        M1H ibnuifcturlio Ltd.                    12U0.0      62S.6   12/12/61       4T2.6          36         10        9.9            s SS                CiKC
A-OS        Cmnstsat Etabte. Ltd.                     1379.0      482.6 1S2/1/67         342.7           2          7       10.0                       12       as
3U-TOTAL                                 2704.0      1061.0                 UO0.8                                                         47
8-13S        Johnson Printing                           22.0       10.4   12/14/87        23.9           4        5.3       11.6                S 
GWRD TOTAL                              284 .2  -11U`2.2                   9017.7                                                        490                     O
Source: The ContrOl Sankaf Bsrbdads and LAC Files.



INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1152-BAR)
Table 6.6: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(US$ Million)
proloct Costs                                                  financing Plan
Appraisal                               Apinra[salEstimate                                         actual
tetimatee     Aetual         I_RD     CBS       PI. and       Total      IBRD       CID       PlIs iuad     Coveriwnent    Total
Subborrowers                                   Subborr,,aere
Credit Component                    16.00      28.59V1      10.00    2.00          4.00       16.00      9.82       1.82        16.95              -       28.59
(Subproject financing)
Tecluical Assistance                 0 Li4      0.73         0.47                     -        0.47      0                           -          0.26        0.73
TOTAL                      16.41       29.32        io.i'       °°2.00    4.00        16.47    10.291'      1.82        16.95           0.26       29.32
Comments
A.      The cost of the credit component shown In the Staff Appraisal Report represented an estimate of aggregate coot of aubprojects yet to be
identiftiedl the actual cost of the endit componeant the (estimated) aggregate cost of subprojects actually financed. Thu., the comparlson of the two
cost figuros Is not partlcularly m_aingful ti  the case of this projoet.  At ony rate, 133 subprojectc vere actually financed as compared to about 100
subprojecte anticipated at the tim of appraisal. Every U.S. dollar dlebursed by 16RD linked to neasrly two U.S. dollars equivalent of local resources
contributed by PIle and aubborrowers to aubprojects. as compared to sixty cents eatimated at the time of appraisal.
3.      The actual cost of the technical assistance componont reflects the cost of two studies on Export Competitiveness and Herketing  and 'Tourism
Developnsnt% the terms of roferences for whicb vwee determined during project Implementation.
1I Estimated on the basie of,subproject data.
21 These figures do not include the capitalized front-end-fee of US$26,000.



- 30 -
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAR)
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT FUND
Table 7.1: AUDITED INCOME STATEMENT, 1984-90
(B$'000)
Year ended December 31              1984    1985    1986    1987    1988         1989      1990
Income
Interest - Discounted loans                                         1,124    1,347    1,349
- Fixed deposits                                             297      419      915
Total                            135      671      885    1.067    1.421    1.766    2.264
Expenses
Promotional                        10        6        4        -         -        1        -
Payroll                            92       69       83       53       52        77       58
Fees                                5        5        5       12         5        5        5
Communications                      -        -        2        4         2        2        2
Entertainment                       -        -        1         1        1        1        1
Stationery                          -        -        -         1        1        1        1
Depreciation                        -        -        -         -        -        2        4
Subscriptions                       -        -        -        -         -        1        -
Travel                              -       13        -         -        -        8        7
Special Projects                    -       80        -        -         -       22        4
Total                          107      173       95       71       61       120       83
Net Income                           28      498      790      996    1.360    1.646    2.181



- 31 -
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2260-BAR)
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT FUND
Table 7.2: AUDITED BALANCE SHEET (as of December 31), 1984-90
(B$'000)
1984    i985    1986    1987    1988         1989   1990
Assets
Cash                                   646       79   2,840       978       870   1,705    1,468
Fixed deposits                           -   2,149   1,121   4,613    4,427  10,200   11,150
Receivables                          3,554  10,441  11,709  15,594   18,982  15,586   18,529
Furniture and equipment                  -        -        -        -         1       17        14
Total Assets                     4.200  12.669  15.669  21.185   24.280  27.507   31.160
Liabilities
Accrued liabilities                     97      211        5        5        57       44        25
Due to Accountant General                -       --        -        -         -        -        80
Due to Special Account                   -        -        -        -         -        5         5
Total Liabilities                    97      211        S        5        57       49       109
Net Worth
Capital contributions                4,075  11,931  14,347  18,867   20,551  22,140   23,435
Accumulated earnings
-General Fund                     2,828      527   1,317   2,313    3,672   5,319    7,500
-Agro-Industrial Fund                  -        -        -        -         -        -       116
Total Net Worth                  4.103  12.458  15.664  21.180   24.223  27.459   31.051
Total Liabilities & Net Worth    4.200  12.669  15.669  21.185   24.280  27.507   31.160



