Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3490-BAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$10.5 MILLION
TO
BARBADOS
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
March 21, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =  Barbados Dollar (BDS$)
US$1.00      =  BDS$2.00
BDS$1.00      =  US$0.50
BDS$1 million = US$500,000
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BDB       -   Barbados Development Bank
BIDC      -   Barbados Industrial Development Corporation
BIMAP     -   Barbados Institute of Management and Productivity
BMFC      -   Barbados Mortgage Finance Corporation
BNB       -   Barbados National Bank
Caricom   -   Caribbean Community
CBB       -   Central Bank of Barbados
EPC       -   Export Promotion Corporation
GOB       -   Government of Barbados
ICF       -   Industrial Credit Fund
NIF       -   National Insurance Fund
NTB       -   National Training Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BARBADOS
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Barbados
Amount:                US$10.5 million equivalent (including capitalized front-end
fee)
Beneficiaries:         Central Bank of Barbados (CBB) and participating Financial
Intermediaries.
Terms:                 15 years, repayable on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace at the standard variable interest
rate.
Relending Terms:       The Government would make the Bank loan available as an
equity contribution to CBB, which would use it, together
with US$2 million of its own funds to discount loans made by
participating financial intermediaries to industrial and
tourism enterprises. The discount rate would be set at 2%
below the average weighted prime rate of the commercial
banks and adjusted periodically. The financial
intermediaries would be free to set their lending rates.
The maturities of subloans would vary according to the
individual subproject, but would not exceed 15 years,
including 3 years of grace. Subloans for working capital
would be for a maximum of five years, including up to two
years of grace.   The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk as well as variations in the Bank's interest
rate.
Project Description:  The project would support the development of the industrial
and tourism sectors by making credit available through
eligible financial intermediaries. The objectives would be
to (i) accelerate investment to expand industrial output and
exports; (ii) generate increased employment to absorb part
of the expanding labor force and help alleviate
unemployment; (iii) establish a new mechanism for expanding
the supply of term credit by using all the banking
institutions; and (iv) contribute to the Government's energy
conservation program by financing energy-saving devices and
processes. An Industrial Credit Fund (ICF) would be
established in the CBB with separate funds, accounts and
staff to provide term financing to industrial and tourism
enterprises through financial intermediaries. The project
includes technical assistance to the CBB, and possibly, the
Barbados National Bank and the Barbados Development Bank.
About 100 subloans averaging US$150,000 are expected to be
made. Investments partly financed by these subloans are
expected to create about 1,000 new jobs, at an estimated
average cost of US$15,000 per job.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:                 The project carries no special risks.  However, because the
proposed institutional arrangements are new, some initial
delays in subloan processing may occur.
Estimated Cost                                   Local      Foreign     Total
- - - -(US$ million)- - - -
a)  Subproject Lending                         6.00        10.00      16.00
b)  Technical Assistance                         -         0.47        0.47
Subtotal                                6.00       10.47       16.47
Front-end Fee                               -          0.03        0.03
Total                                6.00 a/   10.50        16.50
Financing Plan:                                                                    % of
Local     Foreign    Total       Total
- - - -(US$ million)- - - -
Bank                                         -        10.50       10.50        64
CBB                                         2.00        -          2.00        12
FI's and Beneficiaries                      4.00        -          4.00        24
Total                                 6.00      10.50       16.50       100
Estimated Disbursements:                                      Bank Fiscal Years
(US$ million)
Bank                             FY84       FY85        FY86       FY87       FY88
Annual                         1.7        2.4         2.4        2.7        1.3
Cumulative                     1.7        4.1         6.5        9.2       10.5
Rate of Return:            n/a
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No.  4335-BAR, dated March 17, 1983
Map:  IBRD 17103
a/ The tax content of the project would be negligible.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO BARBADOS
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
Barbados for the equivalent of US$10.5 million to help finance an industrial
credit project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, repayable on a fixed
amortization schedule, including 3 years of grace, with interest at the standard
variable rate. The proceeds of the loan would be made available as an equity
contribution by the Government of Barbados to the Central Bank of Barbados for use
by its Industrial Credit Fund to discount loans made by participating public and
commercial banks to the industrial and tourism sectors.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report (Economic Memorandum on Barbados, Report No.
3822-BAR, dated May 28, 1982) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
June 8, 1982. Annex I contains the basic country data.
Background
3.        Barbados is a small island economy of limited resource endowment.  The
most easterly of the Caribbean islands, it has a total land area of 431 sq. km and
with a population of 250,000, it is among the most densely populated territories
in the world--580 persons per sq. km. Population growth has traditionally been
low, with natural growth of about 1% and net emigration about 0.6% in recent
years. No metallic mineral deposits are known, but pockets of petroleum and
natural gas now supply about one quarter of energy requirements. Soil, topography
and rainfall have largely determined a traditional emphasis on sugarcane
production as the main economic activity.
4.        In the last two decades the economy of Barbados has undergone a degree
of structural transformation including diversification of output sources.
Sugar-based agriculture, once the mainstay of the economy, experienced a secular
decline as a result of weakening international prices and increasingly scarce and
costly agricultural labor. Meanwhile, Barbados benefited from the postwar rise of
international tourism as increasing numbers of visitors discovered its beautiful
beaches and pleasant climate, and tourism became the leading growth sector. A
favorable investment climate, supported by effective promotion, also resulted in
rapid growth of the manufacturing sector, with particular emphasis in the 1970s on
export-oriented assembly industries such as electronics and garments.  In 1980,
tourism and manufacturing together accounted for 26% of GDP compared to 17% in
1970; agriculture in 1980 contributed only 10% of GDP compared to 14% in 1970.



- 2 -
5.        The dynamism of the two new growth sectors in the context of the
expanding world economy of the 1960s and 1970s resulted in average annual GDP
growth of 5%. Good economic management in a stable social and political
environment secured these gains for the population. Barbados' income distribution
is relatively equitable and economic infrastructure and social services are
comparatively good. A shortage of adequate housing, and persistent
unemployment,however, affect the lower income groups.
Economic Developments, 1976-81
6.        Following a difficult period occasioned by the international recession
of 1974-75, 1976-80 was overall a good period for Barbados, and economic growth
averaged 5% a year. Growth was export-led, with manufacturing output increasing
by 6% a year, and the number of tourist arrivals rising from 220,000 in 1976 to
370,000 in 1980, i.e., 14% a year. This growth performance brought about a
substantial fall in unemployment and rapidly increasing real wages.
7.        Public finances registered a mixed performance over the period.
Starting from a weak position in 1976/77 with an overall public sector deficit of
6.8% of GDP, government introduced revenue-raising measures and restrained capital
spending, and reduced the overall deficit to near zero in 1978/79, before an
expansion of capital expenditures caused it to rise again to 3.9% of GDP in
FY80/81. At the same time as revenues were rising, there was a gradual shift in
the tax burden from direct to indirect taxes as a deliberate policy of Government
to provide added inducement to personal endeavor.
8.        The growth of tourism and manufacturing brought about a rapid growth in
export earnings which rose about 25% annually between 1976 and 1980. Imports also
rose, but less rapidly, and thus the balance of payments current account deficit
fell from 7.9% of GDP in 1976 to only 1.3% of GDP in 1980. Together with the
increasing level of capital inflows, this permitted an aLccumulation of
international reserves.
9.        Although much of the good performance in these years can be attributed
to generally sound economic policies which fostered a healthy investment climate
and a strong private sector, this was also a period of high external demand.
However, there were signs in 1980 that the performance of the economy was
beginning to deteriorate, displaying the vulnerability that must be expected from
an economy that is so dependent on external forces. External demand was
weakening, thus tourist arrivals did not increase, and there was only minor growth
in non-sugar exports.  The balance of payments current account deficit would have
deteriorated sharply were it not for a bumper sugar crop and high sugar prices.
In addition, the overall public sector deficit was increasing, and price and wage
inflation was accelerating.
10.       The year 1981 was therefore difficult for Barbados as the onset of world
recession combined with adverse conditions domestically to bring about a decline
in economic activity. Sugar production, tourist arrivals and manufacturing output
all dropped. Overall, these factors led to a decline of GDP at factor cost of
about 2.6%. There was also a severe deterioration in the public finances and in
the balance of payments stemming in part from expansionary fiscal and credit
policies. The Government's continued attempts to restructure the tax system away
from excessively high direct taxation were not sufficiently compensated by
increases in indirect taxes, and the domestic assets of the banking system



- 3 -
expanded by 33% compared with 13% the previous year. Public sector savings in
FY81/82 therefore declined by some 30%, and net foreign reserves in 1981 declined
by US$25 million (5% of export earnings), the first net yearly loss since 1976.
As a consequence, the authorities resorted to unusually large external borrowings
on commercial terms, US$46 million, for balance of payments support, and the
Government increased its domestic borrowing in 1981/82 by BDS$50 million,
equivalent to four times the borrowing of the preceding year.
Economic Developments in 1982 and Outlook for 1983
11.       The Government anticipated further weak economic performance in 1982-83
and, beginning in the latter months of 1981, introduced austerity fiscal measures
and tightened monetary policy with a view to containing the deterioration in the
public finances and the balance of payments. The measures included: new taxes;
strict control of the growth of current expenditures, including restraint on
public sector wage increases; a cut in capital expenditures in nominal and real
terms and a decision to support only ongoing projects, with priority given to
projects with external financing; controls on bank credit; and alignment of
domestic interest rates with international rates. On the basis of the adjustment
program, the Government, for the first time, entered into a Stand-By arrangement
with the IMF for a period of 18 months.
12.       Despite the Government's adherence to the adjustment measures outlined
above, (the performance tests under the Agreement with the IMF have been met),
economic difficulties persisted because of the deepening world recession in 1982,
which precipitated a sharper economic decline domestically than had been forecast
originally. Latest estimates show that GDP at factor cost declined 4-5% as
tourist arrivals dropped 12%, manufacturing output declined about 1% and sugar
production fell again by about 8%. Average prices for sugar exports also dropped
20%. These developments had serious consequences for the public finances and the
balance of payments. As Government revenues were below expectations, capital
expenditures had to be further curtailed in order to maintain the parameters of
the economic program. And as export earnings declined, tight credit controls
together with the contraction in domestic activity forced a sharp curtailment of
imports. Official estimates indicate that unemployment also increased during the
year.
13.       The outlook for 1983 continues to be influenced by economic prospects in
the OECD countries. Given present forecasts of a late and sluggish world
recovery, no growth is projected for the Barbados economy in 1983, The Government
is convinced that the situation calls for continued domestic restraint. Price
increases have abated, and the public sector set an example for wage restraint
with the recent wage settlement of a 14% increase for two years, considerably less
than the expected inflation rate of about 20% in the same period. (This compares
with a 31% increase granted in the preceding two-year period.)  Nevertheless, the
balance of payments in 1983 is a cause for concern. While a modest improvement in
the balance of payments is projected for 1983, it is less than needed to
strengthen the reserve position which deteriorated significantly in the last two
years; and when compared to the reserve target under the IMF program, a financing
gap of US$15.5 million is forecast. The Bank, as Chairman of the Caribbean Group
for Cooperation in Economic Development, convened in December 1982 an informal
meeting of donors to present the current economic situation of Barbados and to
alert donors to the emerging need for special financial assistance during 1983.
In response to the situation USAID is providing a program loan of US$7-8 million.
The situation will be further discussed in a second meeting of donors which is
provisionally scheduled to take place in mid-April.



- 4-
Development Objectives and Policies
14.       The Government's development objectives have been outlined in the
1979-83 Development Plan and in other government statements and documents. A new
development plan is being prepared for the next four fiscal years, but the
Government has stated that the strategy will remain essentially unchanged, i.e.,
it will continue to give emphasis to private investment in the productive sectors,
with the role of the public sector largely restricted to the provision of
essential infrastructure and basic social services within a framework of financial
stability. The four key components of the development objectives and strategy are
therefore: (a) to foster rapid economic growth and reduce unemployment, mainly by
promoting a sustained expansion of tourism and manufacturing and increased sugar
production;(b) to achieve a higher degree of economic diversification by promoting
manufacturing and nonsugar agricultural exports; (c) to achieve a higher degree of
self-sufficiency by promoting energy conservation, the development of traditional
and nontraditional sources of energy, and increased nonsugar agricultural
production; and (d) to increase the opportunity of the population to satisfy its
basic needs, mainly by improved health and education services, and by increasing
access to low-cost housing.
15.       This strategy of economic diversification geared chiefly to external
markets is appropriate for Barbados given its natural and human resource
endowment. Barbados does have three major assets favoring this strategy:it has a
relatively literate and trainable labor force; it is close to the major markets of
North America with adequate transport facilities; and it is endowed with good
beaches and a pleasing climate, prime features for a high quality tourism
product. While the present export specialization in sugar and tourism renders the
economy highly vulnerable to international fluctuations, the objective of economic
diversification aims at strengthening the economic base and at increasing its
resilience to externally generated shocks, to the extent possible for such a small
economy.
16.       The Government is placing increasing emphasis on developing
nontraditional agriculture, such as vegetable production. Success in this
endeavour will not only reduce the heavy dependence of the sector on sugar, but
will also offer opportunities for linkages with the tcurism sector. Recognising
the expanding role for the Ministry of Agriculture in such a program, the
Government is utilizing external technical assistance, under a World Bank project
among others, to bring about improvements in administrative and field techniques.
17.       While promoting agricultural diversification and the strengthening of
tourism, the Government is aware that great developmental scope lies in a fuller
exploitation of its industrialisation potential through further growth in export
manufacturing. While the existing incentive structure has proved adequate in the
past, the Government is currently engaged in an assessment of its incentive                   a
policies and programs in the context of present market conditions, and an
industrial strategy is being formulated with financing under the Bank's Industrial
Development and Export Promotion project (Loan No. 1813-BAR) to provide guidance
for the sector's further development once external demand revives. The Bank is
maintaining a close dialogue with the Government on thLese issues.



- 5 -
18.        Given the export-oriented development strategy, the critical issue of
Barbadost competitiveness in non-dollar foreign markets has assumed prominence in
the last year, as the US$ to which the local currency is pegged has appreciated
vis-a-vis other OECD currencies and as domestic wages have increased faster than
in Barbados' iain trading partners.  The Government has come out strongly in favor
of wage restraint, holding the line on its own wage settlement last year in spite
of union opposition, and exhorting the private sector to do likewise.
Public Sector Investment and Financing
19.        Barbados' public sector capital program, formulated under the 1979-83
Development plan, aimed mainly at providing supporting infrastructure and
incentives to the private sector, as well as basic social services. In its
composition, it reflected the Government's development priorities, with over 50%
of the capital expenditures allocated to the directly productive sectors and
economic infrastructure, 38% to housing and social services, and the remainder to
public buildings and other works. In the course of time the program has been
modified in its detail as, for example, new projects and sources of financing
emerged, but the overall baiance of the program was retained.
20.        The weakening of the public finances during 1981 and 1982, in part
because of adverse external economic developments, required a significant
adjustment to the size of public capital expenditures in those years in accordance
with the reduced availability of domestic financing. Thus public capital
expenditures in FY81/82, at BDS$175 million was BDS$25 million below the original
budget for that year, the reduction brought about by a freeze on new projects
introduced midway through the fiscal year. For the same reason further
adjustments to the capital program were made in FY82/83, and more are expected in
FY83/84 as the fiscal outlook continues to be unfavorable.
21.        In making these adjustments it has been the Government's deliberate
policy to give priority support to projects with external financing. Among those
are projects in the agricultural sector for small farm development and fisheries;
in the education sector for construction of a polytechnic school and expansion of
primary and secondary schools; and in the tourism and manufacturing sectors--the
Heywoods Village Project and the Industrial Development and Export Promotion
Project, both financed by the World Bank as is the project for primary and
secondary schools. Other external donors providing finance for the investment
program are the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), CDB, IDB and EDF; and
the USAID and OPEC Fund by means of their contributions to the Caribbean
Development Facility (CDF). 1!
.
22.        All the above-mentioned projects address priority areas of development,
as do other identified projects for which external financing is being sought.
X         Projects in this latter category include fisheries development--terminal and
/ The CDF was established during the First Meeting of the Caribean Group for
Cooperation in Economic Development, held at Bank headquarters June 1978. It
is a transitional financing facility to cover some of the local costs of
development projects in Caribbean countries, including Barbados.



- 6 -
landing facilities, vessels, equipment and training--which has been neglected in
the past; coastal road protection on the south and west coasts where severe
erosion problems exist; provision of sewerage facilities in the south and west
areas of high tourist concentration; and provision of development finance for
manufacturing and tourism through the proposed industrial credit project.
Feasibility studies are underway with IDB assistance for the sewerage project, and
also for energy related projects based on wind and wave power.
23.       It is expected that the 1983-87 Development Plan being prepared by the
Government would identify additional areas of focus for the Government's capital
program and would formulate a financing plan based on increased public sector
savings and realistic expectations of external financing. The less favorable are
external economic developments, the greater will have to be the domestic effort in
the development process. To maintain its traditional rate of public sector
investment of 7.5% of GDP, the public sector would have to re-establish its
savings rate of 5% of GDP from the 2%-3% of GDP to which it fell in the last two
years.
Prospects and External Creditworthiness
24.       The short-term economic outlook for Barbados is not favorable.  The
economy is stagnating in 1983, and this implies continued caution in the public
and private imports. The Government's fiscal and monetary program for 1983/84 has
the support of the IMF under the existing Stand-By arrangement, and other sources
of program type support are expected to be made available under the auspices of
the Caribbean Group's CDF. Moreover, the development focus (medium/long term) is
being maintained as Government addresses issues such as the appropriate industrial
strategy and the quality of tourism-related infrastructure and facilities, and
promotes public awareness of the need for price competitiveness. In this
framework, Barbados will be well poised to resume growth when external demand for
its tourism and manufactured exports picks up.
25.       In the longer term, Barbados will continue to fEace the constraints set
by its limited natural resources and high population density, while it will
benefit from its three major assets: an attractive natural setting for tourism,
an educated and disciplined labor force and a tradition of good government. With
a reasonable rate of recovery in the world economy, these should suffice to enable
Barbados to resume growth in a viable financial setting, although its inevitable
dependence on its foreign sector will also keep it susceptible to the danger of
periodic liquidity difficulties.
26.       The large new public sector borrowing made in 1981, and additional
borrowings in 1982, have brought the external public and publicly guaranteed debt
from 9% of GDP in 1980 to about 19% of GDP in 1982.  Such rapid increases in the
external debt are exceptional, and are not expected to be a continuing pattern,
provided, again, that the world economic recovery is not delayed for too long.
Because of the concessional nature of much of the past debt--with a debt service
ratio of only 3% in 1981--the debt service ratio is expected to remain manageable
at under 8% in the medium term. Considering all of the above, Barbados continues
to be creditworthy for Bank lending on conventional terms.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
27.       Barbados became a Bank member in 1974.  The proposed project would be
the Bank's sixth lending operation. Bank loans to Barbados totpl $35.7 million
and are for education, tourism, industrial development, electric power and
technical assistance. In addition, Barbados has benefited from the Bank's lending
to the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB). So far, three loans for a total of
US$6.7 million from IBRD resources have been made by the CDB to Barbados: in
1978, for an industrial development project (US$2.6 million); in 1981, for the
rehabilitation of two sugar factories (US$3 million); and in 1983 for the
manufacture of clay tiles (US$1.1 million).
28.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of September 30,
1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Although some projects have
experienced delays and cost overruns, project implementation and loan
disbursements have been, on the whole, satisfactory. For the future, the Bank
expects to support the Government's efforts to diversify the economy and improve
the country's infrastructure, as well as in the development of energy resources
and energy conservation.
29.       The Bank has maintained a continuing dialogue with the Government on its
economic policies and development priorities. The Bank has also organized a
subgroup under the auspices of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development to coordinate financial and technical aid to Barbados. At the
meetings of the subgroup, multilateral and bilateral donors have expressed
substantial interest in financing specific priority projects and in providing
technical assistance to Barbados. In addition, in support of its balance of
payments, the country received special assistance through the CDF from the US, the
UK, Canada and the OPEC Fund. As of December 1982, CDF-type pledges to Barbados
have amounted to US$20 million. Barbados is also benefiting from the Venezuelan
oil facility established in 1980, and from the Trinidad and Tobago oil facility.
30.       In 1981 the Bank's share in Barbados' outstanding public and
public-guaranteed external debt was 3%; its share in Barbados' external debt
service was 2%. It is estimated that by 1986 the Bank's share in Barbados'
outstanding public and public-guaranteed external debt would be about 10%. The
Bank's share in external public debt service would be also about 10%.



-8 -
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
31.       Food processing, garment making and electronic assembly operations
dominate the manufacturing sector. Over one half of the 158 industrial
establishments included in the 1979 industrial survey were majority foreign
owned. The manufacturing sector underwent a structural change in the last two
decades. The informal workshops, which in 1960 provided about half of the
employment, have largely been replaced by formal factories, and the average
industrial plant, having about 60 employees, is much larger than 20 years ago.
Manufacturing performed well during 1974-1980, growing at an annual rate in real
terms of over 7%, which was above the country's average growth rate; in 1980 its
share of GDP was almost 13%. However, as both domestic and export markets
weakened during the recession, most industries suffered a decline in activities
and manufacturing GDP dropped by 3.0% in 1981 and by another estimated 1.0% in
1982. Garment manufacturing and metal and assembly products are the only major
industrial sub-sectors which have continued their growthl during the recession.
Manufactured Exports
32.       Exports, which have been the main driving force in the industrialization
process of Barbados, increased more than ten-fold to BDS$237 million between 1970
and 1981.  This growth was mainly due to increased exports of garments and
electronic components which account for 55% of total manufactured exports. Other
manufactures, like processed foods, chemicals and sporting goods have also
performed well on export markets. As a result of the recession
manufactured exports have stagnated in 1982 in real terms for the first time since
the 1960s.  Excluding oil refining, the share of exports in total industrial
production is about 40%.
Employment
33.       In spite of the high labor intensity of assembly operations,
manufacturing employment creation has not kept pace withL the growth of the
sector. The current recession is estimated to have reduced manufacturing
employment by about 1,000. (11%). To maintain Barbados' international
competitiveness, the Government has been restraining wage increases and is
promoting industries that are more in line with Barbados' comparative advantages.
The industrial strategy study (see paragraph 36) also suggests that Barbados
should shift to higher technology industries that are compatible with its skilled
labor force. A move in this direction has recently been taken as Barbados was
able to attract a large US airline which will establish a data processing
operation for an on-line reservation system by satellite employing over 300
Barbadians.
Industrial Policy
34.       Industrial policies in Barbados are basically well conceived and
administered and a good investment climate prevails as evidenced by the high
growth rates and export shares of the sector in the last two decades. Industrial
policy is largely determined within the framework of Caricom agreements on a
common external tariff and on fiscal incentives to industry. Tax holidays and



- 9 -
duty free imports of machinery and production inputs are the most important
incentives provided to industry. In addition to the common external tariff,
import licensing has been the main other tool of Barbados' external commercial
policy. Some items on the import license list are imported freely while others
are subject to temporary restrictions and a few to quantitative restrictions.
There is a negative list for textile items below a certain CIF value to protect
local garment manufacturers.  Policies for the promotion of industrial development
in Barbados are regulated by the Industrial Development Act of 1969 for export
industries and the Fiscal Incentives Act of 1974, which replaced earlier
industrial development legislation.
35.       Further incentives have been provided by the Barbados Industrial
Development Corporation (BIDC) in the form of factory space. BIDC used to provide
factory shells at subsidized rates as an added incentive. However, under the
first Bank loan to the industrial sector (1813-BAR), BIDC is moving away from the
subsidy practice to charging market rates.
36.       In view of the current recession in the world economy and the stagnation
of Barbados' manufactured exports, additional incentives for manufactured
exports may be required. The Export Promotion Corporation (EPC) is currently
administering other types of incentives to the export industry including a scheme
under the first Bank loan (1813-BAR) to encourage nontraditional exports and those
directed to non-Caricom region, by reimbursing exporters some of their export
promotion costs. However, EPC, established only in 1979, is at an incipient stage
of its development and still has to gain the confidence of most exporters. The
proposed project would be an additional instrument in promoting exports by
providing manufacturers with needed financing for equipment and raw material
imports, and in continuing the dialogue with the Government on possible
improvements in current industrial policies. In this context the Government has
initiated, with the financial assistance of the Bank (Loan 1813-BAR) an industrial
development strategy study to identify products with promising export markets, and
industries that are in accord with the comparative advantages of Barbados. The
Government is also analyzing the impact of existing policies, including industrial
incentives on desired development objectives. The policy recommendations of both
studies will be discussed with the Bank.
Tourism Industry
37.       Tourism has been a dynamic sector in the economic development of
Barbados. It provides about 4,000 jobs and is the country's single most important
foreign exchange earner. In line with the dramatic rise of demand in the 1970s,
*       the sector attracted a considerable volume of investment from both foreign and
local sources. However, tourist arrivals declined considerably beginning in 1981
mainly as a result of the international economic situation. In an attempt to
guide the creation of additonal capacity to the underdeveloped areas of the
country, the Government is not issuing building permits or granting fiscal
incentives in built-up areas. On the other hand, it is supporting upgrading and
refurbishing of existing facilities with credit and tax and import duty
concessions, and about half of all existing facilites are expected to need term
financing for this purpose.



- 10 -
Energy
38.       Domestic oil production in Barbados covers about 25% of consumption.
Exploration activities are being undertaken but no major findings have been made
as yet. In 1981, Barbados imported fuels amounting to over BDS$100 million, or
about 10% of total retained imports. The Government is giving high priority to
energy conservation matters. One of the development plan's objectives is to
achieve a higher degree of self-sufficiency by promoting energy conservation and
the development of traditional and nontraditional sources of energy. The recent
Bank's technical assistance project is assisting the Government in undertaking its
energy conservation program through the provision of expert services, training and
studies and institutional support. The proposed project would complement the
efforts of the Government and those of the technical assistance project by
providing term financing for the purchase and installation of energy-saving
devices and processes.
Outlook and Demand for Credit
39.       A recovery of the tourism sector is expected in 1984, in line with the
predicted improvement in the world economy, and manufacturing should return to its
past growth patterns also beginning in 1984. While there is likely to be
relatively little fixed investment in new enterprises in 1983, it is expected that
there will be considerable demand for working capital financing in manufacturing
and for refurbishing of tourism facilities. Based on these assumptions it is
estimated that over a three year period (1983-86) there will be a need for fixed
assets investment of US$75 million equivalent and about US$35 million in permanent
working capital investment in manufacturing. Investments associated with
refurbishing and energy conservation in tourism are est:Lmated at US$20 million
equivalent for the same period. Overall the loan is expected to finance less than
10% of the total investment requirements in manufacturing and for the upgrading
needs in tourism.
The Financial Sector
40.       For almost 300 years economic activity in Barbados centered on sugar
production which required relatively advanced systems of economic organization and
finance. As a result the country has had a relatively well developed financial
system which is dominated by British and North American banks.
41.       The financial system in Barbados consists of CBB, six foreign owned and
one Government owned commercial banks (Barbados National Bank, BNB), the Barbados
Development Bank (BDB) and some trust and insurance companies. At the end of June
1982 the banks had total assets of BDS$1,043 million, of which 81% were owned by
the foreign banks.  Since its creation in 1972 CBB has played an active role in
developing the financial system; it has created a link to provide export credit
and insurance to eligible exporters of manufacturer goods, opened discount windows
for agriculture, manufacturing, tourism and small business loans and established a
small business guarantee scheme. CBB has also progressively strengthened the
monitoring of the commercial banks.
42.       BDB was established in 1969 to provide medium- and long-term loans
principally for manufacturing and tourism. BDB's assets had grown to BDS$70.4
million by March 31, 1982. BDB was financed by Government grants until 1971;
subsequently it has raised resources from loans from multilateral institutions and



- 11 -
by issuing National Development Bonds, in addition to some equity contribution
from CBB. BDB has mainly financed projects of smaller industrial and tourism
enterprises which have had limited access to commercial bank credit.
43.       The commercial banks' role in mobilizing resources in Barbados declined
relatively in the 1970s with the creation of the CBB and the National Insurance
Fund. The BDB and the Barbados Mortgage Finance Corporation (BMFC) have also
recently contributed to resource mobilization. At the end of 1980 the share of
the commercial banks' financial liabilities in the sector was 53%, the Central
Bank 15%, National Insurance Board 11%, insurance companies 8%, trust companies
5%, BDB 4%, BMFC 2% and others 2%. At the same time, financial assets increased
from 75% of GDP in 1965 to 111% in 1980. This was the result of rising incomes
due principally to the development of tourism and manufacturing, the stable
socio-economic framework, relatively little regulation of the banking system and
the increasing importance of Barbados in regional financing.
44.       The agricultural and distribution sectors were the major users of
commercial bank credit until the 1960's, when manufacturing and tourism began to
develop rapidly, followed by other emerging sectors such as construction, personal
services and public utilities. However, until 1978 commercial bank loans to the
manufacturing sector remained rather limited, mainly because many firms obtained
much of their fixed assets financing from abroad. The rapid growth in
manufacturing in 1979 to 1981 resulted in a large increase in mostly short-term
lending to this sector until 1982 when, due to the tight liquidity of the
commercial banks and the slowing down of manufacturing activity, such lending
declined in real terms. The financing gap was partly filled by an increase in
BDB's lending to the sector in 1982. However, small businesses and exporters of
manufactured goods have been relatively neglected. The CBB has provided some
assistance by opening discount windows for manufacturing and tourism and guarantee
schemes for exporters and small businesses.
45.       The bulk of commercial bank loans are for financing working capital and
these loans are generally rolled over annually. The BDB is the only institution
engaged exclusively in term lending, but it accounts for only 6% of total
financial assets and commercial banks provide the majority of term lending to
manufacturing and tourism. However, the commercial banks' term lending to these
sectors as a percentage of their total assets was only 4% for manufacturing and 5%
for tourism in 1981. This is in excess of their term liabilities which amounted
to only 3.5% of their total liabilities in 1981. Total term credit for
manufacturing has historically covered only about 19% of the total long-term
capital requirements of the sector. The proposed loan would provide additional
*      long-term resources to the banking community for lending to these sectors.
Interest Rates
46.       CBB sets minimum deposit and lending rates for the commercial banks as
well as a ceiling on their average lending rates. Within these overall limits the
commercial banks set their individual deposit and lending rates. CBB also
influences commercial bank lending rates and liquidity through setting discount
rates and the reserve requirement.  Despite the institution of exchange controls



- 12 -
in 1974, local interest rates have tended to follow international rates. In
1980/81 the Barbados Government attempted to restrain the rise in domestic
interest rates so that they would not reach the very high levels of international
rates. However, domestic rates were eventually allowed to rise because the
growing differential between domestic and foreign rates resulted in some outflow
of capital.
47.       Late in 1981 credit policies were tightened and interest rates rose
significantly. CBB raised its discount rate from 10% to 18% and then 22% and
raised reserve requirements from 20% to 27% to shift somie of the burden of
financing the widening Government deficit to the commercial banks. Banks were
also required to reduce outstanding consumer credit by 10% by March 1982. During
1982 rates were allowed to decline in line with falling rates in international
markets and are adequate at present as they are broadly in line with international
rates and are positive in relation to current and projected inflation rates.
48.       The rapid GDP growth, accompanied by large public expenditures and the
acceleration of wage rates, particularly since 1980, has caused inflation to rise
to 14-15% p.a. in 1980 and 1981. Due to austere fiscal measures taken in 1982 and
the international recession, inflation in Barbados abated to 10% in 1982 and is
expected to be below 10% in 1983.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49,        The project was identified by the Bank in May, 1982 and was prep.d 
CBB with the help of Bank staff.  It was appraised in September/October 1982 and
the appraisal mission's report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Barbados
Industrial Credit Project"s (No 4335-BAR dated March 17, 1983) is being
distributed separately. Negotiations for the proposed loan took place in
Washington D.C., in March 1983. The Barbados delegation was led by
Mr. Martin E. Cox, Chief Project Analyst (Acting), Ministry of Finance and
Planning. Annex IIl contains a timetable of key events in processing the projecxt
and a description of the special conditions of the proposed loan,
The Previous Loan
50.        The Industrial Development and Export Promotion Project (Loan 1813-BAR)
was the first Bank loan supporting the industrial sector in Barbados,  The 'IS$10
million loan was approved on March 20, 1980 and became effective on August 23,
1980. The project included four components for: (a) financing the construction
of factory shells for potential investors, channelled through the Industrial
Development Corporation (BIDC) (US$6 million); (b) industrial credit, providing
subloans through the Barbados Development Bank (BDB) (US$3.2 million); (c) export
promotion, mainly supporting an incentive program to stimulate non-traditional and
extra-regional exports through the newly established Export Promotion Corporation
(EPC) (US$300,000); and (d) management and vocational training through the
National Training Board (NTB) and Barbados Institute of Management and
Productivity (BIMAP) (US$500,000).
51        Total commitments under the loan are US$5.7 million.  In January 1983
BDB fully committed its industrial lending component while BIDC has committed 40%
of its component, and its program is expected to be completed with about one year
delay. The slow progress of BIDC's construction program is primarily due to
restrictions on BIDC's budget that coincided with a falloff in demand from foreign
investors as a result of the world recession. Some reallocation of loan resources
from BIDG to BDB may be necessary. EPC has totally committed its component but it
has been slow in disbursing due to lack of effective promotion and administrative
delays. BIMAP's reduced budget for local counterpart funds has caused a temporary
change in priorities which resulted in slow commitment of its share, although its
program has been approved. NTB has recently reformulated its program under the
project since it has obtained more concessional funds.
52.        BDB's credit component has been used to finance 23 subprojects, 16 of
which are small scale (less than US$200,000). The cost per job created was
estimated at US$7,000 for small projects and US$20,000 for larger ones. The vast
majority of machinery, equipment and raw materials required for the subprojects
was imported. BDB's assets in March 1982 showed a 48% increase over their level
the previous year due mainly to the large increase (55%) in the lending portfolio
over the year before. CBB's contribution increased BDB's equity from BDS$9c7 to
BDS$15.8 million. BDB's rate of return on average equity reached 3.6% compared to
only 0,6% the previous year due to higher lending rates and increased
disbursements. However, BDB has a high arrears level representing 6.8% of the
portfolio in overdue amounts as of March 1982 (7.2% in the previous year) and its
portfolio affected by arrears is 43%. Given the difficult economic situation and



- 14 -
the business slowdown, BDB's arrears could have been expected to increase over
their previous level. However, due to an action program BDB is following at
present, the arrears have been stabilized.
53.       BIDC has increased its rents that have been renewed as agreed with the
Bank, but its financial position has not yet improved significantly as rents can
be increased only on the renewal of leases and new space rented is still small.
BIDC has begun to implement the recommendations of a study financed by the Bank,
on accounting, management information systems and organization. The changes are
intended to help BIDC achieve the objective of financial self-sufficiency.
54.       The proposed project would provide continuity to the existing loan's
(1813-BAR) industrial lending component which was fully committed in January
1983. However, to ensure broader coverage of credit demand of various types and
scales of enterprises in the industrial and tourism sectors, the proposed project
will use as a channel for lending, in addition to BDB, all banks in Barbados that
are willing to participate in the two-tier lending scheme under the project.
Project Objectives
55.       The proposed project would continue to support the development of the
industrial and tourism sectors by making available through eligible financial
intermediaries term resources to (i) accelerate industrial investment to expand
industrial output and exports; (ii) generate employment opportunities to help
reduce the high unemployment rate; (iii) build up a new mechanism to expand term
credit supply by using all the banking institutions in line with CBB's objectives
to increase development-type lending by commercial banks; and (iv) contribute to
the Government's energy conservation program by financing energy saving devices
and processes. In addition to financing the establishment of new ventures and the
expansion of existing ones, the project is also intended to help maintain the
viability of existing enterprises by providing them with currently scarce
resources for the financing of their needs for working capital to increase or
maintain the presently low utilization of installed capacity.
Project Execution
56.       To accomplish the project objectives a two-tier credit system would be
established comprising CBB as the apex institution and a network of participating
financial intermediaries, qualified by CBB. The Government of Barbados (GOB)
would be the borrower and would bear the foreign exchange risk as well as the risk
of variations in the Bank's lending rate. GOB would pass on the loan resources to
CBB as equity, through a Subsidiary Financing Agreement. CBB will establish a
special fund, the Industrial Credit Fund (ICF), with separate financial resources,
accounts and staff to provide financing for industrial and tourism enterprises
through participating financial intermediaries. (Section 2.01 of the draft
Project Agreement). The establishment of ICF within CBB will be a condition of
loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       Institutional arrangements for the execution of the project include
hiring at least one professional to manage ICF operations. CBB will attempt to
fill that post by hiring a qualified professional acceptable to the Bank as part
of CBB's staff. If this is not feasible, the Bank loan includes US$0.25 million
for financing a consultant for ICF for two years, with an estimated total
(including travel and subsistence) cost of US$10,000 per man-month, who will also



- 15 -
train a CBB staff member to take over ICF management as the consultant phases
out. The hiring of a qualified professional acceptable to the Bank as ICF manager
will be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). ICF will carry out operations in accordance with its Statement of
Policies and its Operating Procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. The
approval by CBB's Board of ICF's Statement of Policies will be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan (Section 6.01 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Overall Project Costs and Financing Plan
58.       Including the capitalized front-end fee of about US$26,000, total cost
is estimated at US$16.5 million (BDS$33 million), of which US$10.5 million or 64%
would be foreign exchange. This estimate includes US$16 million for industrial
project lending as well as US$0.5 million for technical assistance which will be
100% financed from the Bank loan. Since few of the investment items included
under the project are taxed, the tax content of the project would be negligible.
Of the total $16 million for industrial and tourism financing, US$10 million would
be provided by the Bank loan to the GOB, to be passed on to the Fund; US$2 million
equivalent represent CBB's counterpart funds to be used for on-lending; and an
estimated US$4 million are expected to be contributed by project beneficiaries and
the financial intermediaries from their own resources. US$0.25 million is
allocated for a consultant for two-years to build-up ICF's capabilities and
staff. About US$224,000 is unallocated and may be used for other types of
assistance to ICF, BNB, BDB or sector studies that may be needed during the course
of implementing the project. If the amounts provided for technical assistance are
not used, they may be used for ICF lending. In addition, the Bank loan includes
the capitalized front-end fee.
Loan Features
59.       Financial Intermediaries (FIs) will consist of all public and private
banks legally established in Barbados and accredited by CBB to participate in the
ICF system. The FIs will be responsible for making and administering all subloans
to beneficiaries for their respective operations and will bear the credit risk.
ICF, mainly through CBB's Supervision Department, will follow-up on the
intermediaries' operations, check the performance of firms financed under the
scheme and ensure the proper utilization of ICF resources for the purposes of the
project.
60.       ICF will finance through FIs all productive activities in the industrial
and tourism sectors and related services for new ventures, expansion and
renovation of existing ones including energy conservation devices and increases in
capacity utilization. Only viable enterprises and sound projects will be eligible
for ICF financing which will cover construction, renovation and the purchase of
equipment, machinery, cargo vehicles, civil works and industrial buildings,
working capital, preinvestment studies, and technical assistance services. ICF
will discount up to the smaller of (a) 90% of intermediaries' subloans, or (b) 70%
of the costs of new individual subprojects and 80% of the costs of expansion
projects. Up to 50% of ICF initial resources could be directed to finance working
capital not associated with fixed asset investment (Schedule 1, paragraph
2(a)(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       ICF discounts exceeding US$250,000 equivalent would require previous
Bank authorization. For subloans above the Bank's free limit ICF would calculate



- 16 -
the economic rate of return (ERR) of the subproject and would submit for the
Bank's review the intermediary's evaluation.  With this free limit and based on. an
estimated average subloan size of US$150,000, the Bank is expecting to review
about 20% to 25% of al;L subloans, representing an estimated 33% of the loati
amount.
Relending Terms
62.       To make ICF resources available to as large a number of firms as
possible the maximum of ICF financing for each beneficiary would initially be                   )
limited to US$1.5 million. This limit is also intended to enable BDB to be in a
reasonably competitive position as a participant in the scheme, since its maximum
loan amount is currently BDS$2.2 million (US$1.1 million). Intermediaries will
have a free limit with ICF of US$150,000 equivalent. Below this limit ICF will
only check that the necessary information for justifying the project has been
provided, that the subproject is eligible for financing and that the proposed
subloan terms are appropriate. Larger subprojects (above US$150,000 equivalent)
will be subject to a more detailed review by ICF of the technical, financial,
marketing and economic aspects.
63.       Subloans for fixed assets  investment will be for a maximum of 15 years,
including up to three years' grace. However, subloans for working capital will
have a maximum term of five years, including  grace periods of up to two years.
The ICF discount rate under the project will be fixed at 2 points below the
commercial banks' weighted average prime rate (currently between 12% and 13%)
(Section 2.01(d) of the draft Project Agreement). That rate, which would apply to
both outstanding and new loans, reflects money market conditions and this formula
would ensure that ICF resources would continue to be attractive to FIs.
Intermediaries will fix their on-lending rates with no ceiling from CBB and
therefore would establish their own spreads for each subloan depending on the risk
involved. The average spread for FIs is expected to be around 3.5 points under
current conditions. Competition amongst intermediaries would ensure that the
rates will be in line with market conditions. Interest rates in Barbados will be
reviewed periodically, at least once a year, by CBB and the Bank, to ensure that
they continue to reflect domestic and international market conditions, including
inflationary trends (Section 2.07 (c) of the draft Project Agreement). If rates
are considered inappropriate and an agreement on new rates can not be reached
within 60 days, the Bank would have the right to reject fujrther commitments
(Section 2.02 (e) of the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement, Disbursemernt and Commitment
64.       Financial intermediaries and ICF would satisfy themselves that
procurement items were suitable and that the beneficiaries, had canvassed the main
sources of supply and were purchasing from the most advantageous source. Whenever
justified, mostly for larger procurement contracts, items would be procured on the
basis of several quotations, in accordance with standard practice for IDF-type
projects. The Bank loan would reimburse CBB for 90% of ICF discounts with a
maximum of 70% of each new subproject cost and 80% of expansion projects. This
will result in the Bank financing not more than the estimated average foreign
exchange component of 64%. Disbursement will be made against statements of
expenditure submitted by CBB for subloans below the Bank free limit (US$250,000
equivalent) and full documentation for larger subloans. Such statements of
expenditure will be subject to specific audits. Expenditures made less than 180



- 17 -
days prior to Bank receipt of the corresponding approval or authorization, but in
no case for expenditures made prior to loan signing, would be eligible for
disbursement. Consulting services under technical assistance will be open to
international recruitment according to Bank guidelines. Consultants to be hired
and their terms of reference would have to be acceptable to the Bank. The loan is
expected to be committed over a period of about three and a half years and
disbursed in four and a half years.
Project Benefits and Risks
65.       The proposed project would maintain and expand industrial output and
exports by providing financing needs of about 100 subprojects. The project would
also create about 1,000 new jobs (the cost per job created is estimated at
US$15,000). The project would expand the channels through which term financing
can be provided to the productive sectors by using all existing banks as
intermediaries. In the meantime this new mechanism would help improve the
capability of participating banks to evaluate projects and therefore extend more
term financing. In addition the project is intended to build up this same type of
capability at CBB. The creation of a permanent Fund at CBB would ensure the
availability of term resources at all times for the industrial and tourism sector
which will prevent crowding-out of these sectors at times of tight liquidity.
66.       The proposed project does not involve any unusual risks.  However,
because the proposed institutional arrangement is new and untried, some initial
delays in subloan processing by both the financial intermediaries and ICF may
occur. To minimize delays in project implementation Bank supervision would be
more intensive during the first year. Delays could also arise when commercial
banks become more liquid. They might then prefer to mainly lend short term from
their own resources. This risk should be mitigated by the attractive spread
offered to banks under this scheme with no maximum on the interest they can
charge. In addition, promotion with entrepreneurs and intermediaries and the
simplicity and absence of delays in processing discounts should further reduce
that risk. Finally, the depressed world economic situation and the possible
delays in business recovery could affect the level of demand for term resources.
However, the built-in flexibility in the design of the project that permits
financing fixed assets or working capital needs depending on the state of the
economy would ensure that project resources will be used to fulfill the specific
financing needs as they arise.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between Barbados and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and the Central Bank of Barbados, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately. Special conditions of the
loan are listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness
would be: (i) establishment of the Industrial Credit Fund; (ii) appointment of a
manager of the ICF acceptable to the Bank; (iii) the approval of the Statement of
Policies by the Board of the CBB; (iv) the signing of the Subsidiary Financing
Agreement between the Government and the CBB; and (v) the signing of a
participating agreement between CBB and a financial intermediary.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Mlarch 21, 1983



- 19 -
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
BARBAMr-1CIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BARBADOS                       XEFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEfA6ES
AREA 'THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL              0.4                                 MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       0.4               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  480.0      1170.0    3D40.0                   1902.0                    2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      357.2       823.6    1114.2                   1259.9                    2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  231.0         238.0     249.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 35.4         37.0      39.3                     65.7                      47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
(                                   POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         0.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          0.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      537.2        553.5     577.2                     35.2                      83.3
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    577.5        643.2     670.8                     92.5                     155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         38.1         37.4      27.2                     39.7                      31.1
15-64 YRS.                         55.2         54.4      62.5                     56.1                      61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   6.7          8.2      10.4                      4.2                       7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               0.9/c       0.3/c     0.5/c                    2.4                       1.6
URBAN                               1.4         0.7       1.1                      3.8                       3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      30.7        22.8      22.9                     31.4                      23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      10.2         9.0       8.3                      8.4                       9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.0         1.5       1.3                      2.1                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPrORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         103.0        108.0      98.0                    110.0                     116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  109.2        120.4     129.9/d                  108.4                     125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          65.2         78.1      84.6/d                   66.0                      92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       36.4         48.2      56.5Td                   34.0                      35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       6.8         1.9       0.8                      5.6                       9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    64.3         68.3      70.8                     64.2                      67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            74.0        40.1      26.3                     64.2                      65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        98.0     100.0/e                   65.6
URBAN                                *-        95.0     10.0/e                   78.9
RURAL                               ..        100.0     100.0o7T                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        100.0     100.0/e                   59.3
URBAN                                         100.0     100.0dT                   75.3
RURAL                               ..        100.0     100.0o7                   30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3039.5       1904.0    1446.5/d                 1617.3                   1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      386.4/f      270.5     328.57-                 1063.5                    634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             168.9        97.3     114.3/g                  477.4                    286.8
URBAN                            164.3/f      119.9     141.2,i                  679.8                    192.0
RURAL                                *-       158.2/h   189.7Tg,h               1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         9.2      10.2/S                   27.3                     20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.0         4.0
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.2         1.0
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         59.1
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..



- 20 -
M6HU I
Page 2of 5'
TABLE 3A
BARBADOS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BARBADOS                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAqES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCMOE          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN         EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL               108.0       102.0     121.0                    104.3                    102.4
MALE                116.0       104.0     121.0                    106.4                    107.1
FEMALE              102.0       101.0     122.0                    103.3                     99.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 39.0        68.0      82.0                     41.3                     60.2                            )
MALE                 46.0        67.0      79.0                     40.4                     66.4
FEMALE               33.0        69.0      86.0                    41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Y OF SECONDARY)  5.2          4.1        ..                     33.7                     31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           40.4        33.2      28.0/d                   29.9                     25.8
SECONDARY                         28.8        26.8      19.87T                   16.7                     22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       98.2        99.2      99.0/S                   79.1                     75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        34.6        81.1     100.9/S                   42.8                     51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       151.5       373.9    527.8                    .270.5                    157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          *-        67.2     201.5                    L07.7                    123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL.
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 94.4        96.6      84.6                     63.7                    112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0/i       5.5       4.5/e                    2.7                      4.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       91.5        89.9     109.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  42.0        39.9      41.8                     24.4                     36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             26.4        21.0       8.0                     31.3                     38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                27.0        22.0      25.0                     23.9                     25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               39.6        37.8      44.0                     33.6                     44.5
MALE                                51.2        48.3      54.7                     50.4                     56.3
FEMALE                              30.2        28.4      34.6                     16.8                     32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1         1.2       0.9                      1.3                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        19.8/.
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         4          .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         6.8f       .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        18.67       .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    484.0/d.
RURAL                               ..          ..    484. 7;T                  1 84.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    518.0/d                   518.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    518.07O                   371.1                    406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      23.0/dc
RURAL                               ..          ..      23.0/d.
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to migration, population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e 1975;
/f 1962; /S 1976; /h Government hospital establishments only; /i 1963; LI Income recipient.
May, 1982



- 21-                                                                  eyT.T
Notes   Alhough te fate  re orat  from turist uoetalyjodged the ae. ufoiutvutrlabe,teol ajx be-I ec "e the   hxy -y va  be IIte--
tt Ix.    Itl ooetrh  odr  offxi.e idotatxx.etchINete   eroxmao   clfreoebt-x eeetx
aajctty  f th  co.ortl PIto   drop be  gro. f  oor ltht  WoINo.tot  h  oetg   fcocre   se  the ieiarr ddepeeto ox th.-e                         oeleuty-f  ec
If,t Ichousano pike.)                                                                     Alrltt peft,ixrao fat .-h toel..ohee, as rorIy b-Pelot.ot
rotatedhy seaooxvero.oe Plthod a   1-ri  gao  AnIs i1d 19794 ei)   d.h,              st  tiu  oIeter  ex   eraairsate   y     he.dbib
190 tce i90 -dn.                                                                     atlea  ause1eos  ear..     eldatfe, ssL.l shLob offe  is-Peetm    sucma
ENERGY CONSLWTtION PER CAPITA - ucuoulceasto  ofir            _eIsogy Ciet noe  pupoe  orbs. .hositls. ieaiad fUAL priect.pijeer Th.es.isse
ot   eIts   eroem   ator-1- gs.  otd Tydro,  -uolea  oct  -xthr_l el_-                  ax  r_rs  tep,itei. loca  or ro-e  heaPetteie         d   .      .t at.alse   maariy
rc tp)1 kilograms of coal xgo1rslee  Par capo; 1960. 1970. eed 1979                     octre    pmiolae  hopicoLo errleitte  nip eate  roxo1.
toPEt..ATIES 0110 itTof. STATISTICS                                                                            f1 .   d-h-s
Total Poru.atiLAI L. t id-Ye.r (lh.oueeote  - a. of July 1; 1960. 19170. oc  19040      OIbE
diE erac  efictott  oforhu are  -ey aftet cow..rblil.  zf Ten                       od taIe sea  -eI..  A bender or iods  may or ye  at he ixetete  is
a  -- toirise  19600. 1970. ext 194  dtat.                                              the heteho.Ld fee  tsixeiP."p-e.
toe  ppltluh    g d tot enex  their ..etelit  se  fertility eus..d...t.    eaextxy                          selee   ai _         -ptemx tegea t
l1-tel  sod     f    -nl  lf   tyx bcysailittoc at 77.0 yaxco. IThe PurY.               Coxeacoea  4-ii.ge mib xi. tioi  teitu    erxe-partaxeug
xeo for -,,iSE  rot  cletn   he   eooeoMe .lx   eo  eo.ob.   t  ao   ealeerpea.tlre.iy.
Oerttitytc--dceg  to itoov  loesl ee  P-u  f-Ltiy plexecg porfueso
tEch  -Iocty Is that -eeeeo   ax of I.thee  in  cfiotohet  of arlty                 E ATIa
cob f-roliny crext  for proleitIIx  tapesas.                                          AAAfo4ete   . erliau tuttue
aloeocerte.  Tin   ..otis.e   ot ly of. cxcatilicy ret.  oote  to                   ermr   celsspaxeix;aeel    iue    hl                           gd 0-Lil
the.elomn -P _lovel  fIoct not reprteicth  rae,ea -eh ge-araio                            Yaxohxoittdfor tiffera   ietgthx of primary etcoe lfo
of __at _epocee Itslfeeoy. tttetoc   Peplao   iee                                          toutIbxa titouved tasieerla                     x?aesi  prc
eatttoon  te  asteof  ab  rojcte Th   ro,   ritcxo  the p -uot                      stoic eta puile oe-el  oraveth   o               -Yoa  sahed u00P.
Llxteeo2000. setni"rte ef eacite if fert.Illt   ast rep I.laPis                        Saodrvsho -tti saleoat emal  -  Cohpeate  8 Aheve;eteay
e.ae  ilIl ba -esihet.                                                                    oeAlly of 12 to 17 esre of age; terea,peeteax   tertes             - srlty
ttlae;1900. 1970ad  99  ae                                                         oiluds taxheico. tetaxeiel. or other profra Sigh operes  iadxm_-
Pe -e.cm -efiltp-    c   - Cosyxtd ae fav  fee  WlrieltareI heat                    oul   c-  .eeasao   oxeaytettto
otly; 1960. 1970 oa  1979 tae                                                           rei-erhrre.o-eirr.st.eaar-  xa:eemt   reltb
Porlocne as  rrotor I oraxa  - Chlilro  IR-lb Year.). arhiog-og   (13-                prmrIu aotr  lel   it    ye                     .r of etaher  it Eh.
0vsc)adroIrt    6   eo   a coal ex portettage  of mId-year papa-                  o epsigLevel..
lta;16.1970, ext 1940 dat..                                                      Adwic lteroi r.- (ar.-x     - L,t-tat  eteI,. (tie. to re dataex
PortLato iroax  Rac       ...tct -  tot"! - Aex-,s  growt  reaoIee   a-                    s    aEtg f noeui etxlt PoPelJrta  age  iSyar   at
Yso  roeltic   c 1950460, 1960-70, soo 1970-90.
PoueieGrowh toe..etc -oha-aaal grwh  aaeo  .'hb- tPa-                              ComSlirfcU
laicxs for 195040   9076         e   9540 .                                             Paess....     Cor Inc- theoud r?aaxa9 -     WPaass           ..o "ari  ms
oPaFLMteo; 1940, 197,efLen   ana                                                          atforary rsit.
Ituda beeCh Rate (per thos   l- heoe  deaths Per thoIe-ed  of   dyetRdio Rci-er leer th,,d rceaicin     - 601p cypt of r-eI-.r fer rad.
PPipoLattt;L1960. 1970 . A0  940 dses.,                                                    brecssogxae   ei. prtose   fpplga;elt
Mrs  ePe.d-ci-t Ret-A"'Ttr       eoha  of tattghtsxs A oaavil  oe b.    x Lleadrosvp IL                i      x    -oexrte  ea..d   yer -ad   raiterea  ef rati
Id,cte   rpotcivl  LeIo   f sh .epaIeaxes p-rsoitat-srxfic  f.r-                    ..atesi stt;" tee  for re I _sYac            a Ise  h ceae ix   a
tiiyrts   eL.yfr-ee  rrgxeda   in1960, 1970, ext 1900.                           eat  cntie  blhet izceeig.
ofIit-otrldne   atrseie  o   ooelfeiypeoiu   rgo.                                          getripai  pareheosd  ep-ecra  eeite   elmTtVVrxoec
fail:lenno-Isr  Inercat vI srid    o    -Il Peratesf aretd                         ie.oatrex   in Yous-         s  rsix Inof TV  ei ma  Os  f-tae
Publira..ia devted primarily te  _.  inorte  gx.o. eas.  it in osmater
ris  As  UEITIO                                                                               tI he edulyx if LI aPpears at le-e  tar cta           -k.
Ecre ofPetoP cId-ne ret ,incte 11 -1-10) - lae  of -prtpita .-_eI                         Citea batn    Atutta    tEei.sxTe     - ses.W     tha  .ar at
iso   estrya aI n.GI-ditt..eset .-prIay gas   l..  aeres                                   a  -baisUsi
teteat of easor) thoh are sdbis sad ..er-i. autPiaxt  (e..of feesu
ns  es  aldted.  Agpgeaut prodociox of eah te-er  is haxtLANK.10 P0K
aextaei  vergs podoar eiosteigas;196Li65. i970. sd 1940 date.                Totet Ulabo Pe-  (thexeste    Ztsoesesinlr -.ti- arsam. tatitie
ever40 euiveleetof Ott oot ouppina ocalebla tonooooryP.r  oisi.            ceveing Popltiex of dl age.  Osfui-tix   he -.L-e  r-eI-sax
Per dy.  batiehix  s"'plixe  -ospr"n  4xmaaIo poctn.teeaeox  xP-bols; 1940. 1940 sa  1900 tas..
exports, ..5  oh..,a. Lt stock.  Ast supplies  oluke Axiati feed. ed.Pelsxriel- FemLe isb- ttre     pea-s   ef nava  Leb", fEr.-
qaetitcse cast Lx food' prcssn,adlese  in diatriutine.  heqlt.-                           beiuxselet              - Isa  foa  itLsuig  feesgeY, batieg us
atte ope estimatd by PAOhse   x  hsnlgea ods fee armaL vIt-                                 Si.ape   mr e  of c.c  leber feast 1660. 1C70 se  gad teen.
ltuah  -1lee; 1961465, 1070 aS  i977 dsos.                                             1940. 1170 as 19O doxo.
Nttpyefl fodrtda.Ntaep1o  fea  is mld f tee                                                       ff.e.   s-1ricyteerrwaota  oa. at.  ad..  t-iL lehu  fer-ns s.
olvnee   Iia-o   ia   rei  ps  dyas2 as   If axial se                              1940. 1979. sed iO   data,  These es  b.asa  vs 110's partoipatm  retes.
puls  presi. o  shih 1 grma  h=od h   amlreen   Those tae-                       Ielrigassa   oote   f the phptiaIeeL. ad I.a, tI- trd.  b
arde to  love  than thos  of 75  ra-  of total prestin ext 23 gnae of                     feestmes   refe  satthinxe.ra
eeha  trceaaxe  aeraE.,for the  nrIt. prepatd by FAD In the Third                       Ecoaamla d  Dspassa esei  - Raxhe of papL.i-tm   Uete, 15 ea hO etear
Wold Pond turney; 1961465, 1970 and 1977 dat.                                            to the I.enlabo  E,rna,--
Percait rrtxn extr ro  coma a   puse-  Prote         , spLy of fcod de-
rivt no  alalt  etpuse  i  grs  erda;  94-ON, 1970 as 1077 dais.         tOEdrix REit$TIWgYl
(                        dolt (ease i~d   -1.-dllstrac (o  hcet p       t.aJsl teotis prtoaoieecx sof Prints Enem  (both in cahs. kld) - 1Peore  byroha
tries dxc. daloet Era life tables; 1900. 1970en  1990 data,                               of he... oide.
acbirth;  196.5190ed14  deta.                                                            os  houldgb ho Inrpr-od withl rainerbisi-ia
Itf-a taN'lc   Ras(e  iootl-A                ldahs of iLous  rdr  a  tsar                 Es.tima'tedAbmeulot Peet  e         hviti  x tacial -uxh. e e               l-L
of  as  artRhnsed Siabirs.; tOtO. 1970ed 194i data.                                    :bouo  ase Iam   tel  n  he  _oa  Ilelblo  Aho   a Smima
W.esnht dater (r--ax  of ooltel- total. ora .4re  rurai  N- ea--vtainhAlly  deqets dine Plea  -eaou  as-taod  eqair-se  in tet
her of )oePIe Intt.1  orhe, as   -Ir) eith poeneblo  cexc  safeofrale
lscxue   f terrseci  po utoe                   x  ra  orsapobli                     pare-l Lnca  of ehe cear. Ieh  isoxi Is bxtlved from  ehe  -ar
foottaitt  r Sttdpte  locaed ot areciax200atr   trt     .-ve  -ey bt            leve  tith sd)ou-at  fec hisha  osof Livi.g in or,xa-           a
ec... d.re,u  bshog ecthiN     eal  acocf thet  ose    irora1 ers                        nige pyelcx  ac  Abea-e Po-rt tae  ha  ara)- p
nastbeat..xvld ieply that  h. he . be ,urrfe It mnrof ths h...shxld              atrel- Peeex  ofpylteauoaetrri   doeaait
famIy' e x-t- tate
Icon  to voot Ilsuealoeceec ofprual) - oa.ora.et ua 
Noowetof peope ;total,Hf  ophat. ot o-r)  -sr_  by  -ucrxn  disposal as
p tisnegeso  table -ep o p-     poltla"`  ioc...te dsposal say toclode
ca  clece d a  diapesml. ~ ect`o oreIaUt  'tt a,. of Ixeos sece-
ob,et~e    rvee-oneea  or, th hexo   it priviax od siet-
Pexloivt arPhstoa    Pruttoodivided ty ete    iprIctinheg physh-                                                    ttmcasSaihe  Rat Oilnine
POe-loct- ve to-olc  P-re   - Popel.aoo  duottd~ by  um.of rr-Lo,in                                                                        Pie 191
xa.a   emao grdaetree9atcsttne.  oxl2 noe   x



BARBADOS - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
AVERAGE
ANNUAL
Actual                     Est.   GROWTH             Actual             Est.
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982   RATE         1977    1979    1981        1982
-__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1977-SI
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Constant 1976 US$ million                             As percentage of GDP
Gross Domestic Product                                 441.8   465.1   505.6   539.2   533.2   506.5    4.8    100.0   100.0   100.0
Imports of goods - NFS                                 296.6   315.7   357.0   402.0   385.8                6.8      67.1    70.6    72.4
Exports of goods - NFS                                 259.6   301.6   359.0   383.7   343.3                7.2      58.8    71.0    64.4
Consumption a/                                         396.8   385.4   400.4   432.8   442.2                2.7      89.7    79.2    82.9
Investment b                                            82.0    93.8   103.2   115.7   133.5               13.0      18.6    20.4    25.0
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                                Current US$ million                                    As percentage of total
Retained Imports
Consumer goods                                       102.1   114.0   139.9   171.2   180.0   163.0                 41.5    38.0    35.5    32.6
Intermediate goods (exc. fuels)                       61.4    71.7    95.8   107.9   117.0   103.0                 25.0    26.1    23.1    20.6
Fuels c/                                              18.1    16.9    23.7    32.6    59.3    46.5                  7.4      6.5    11.7      9.3
Capital goods                                         56.4    71.0   103.4   133.8   150.7   183.5                 22.9    28.1    29.7    36.7
Other                                                  8.0      8.9     4.6    -1.3       -       4.0               3.2      1.3     -        0.8
Total                                                246.0   282.5   367.4   444.2   507.0    500.0               100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Domestic Exports
Primary Products                                      33.7    32.2    39.0    69.7    45.1    51.8                 44.6    33.5    30.3    33.0
Manufactured Products                                 41.9    60.0    77.4    98.4   103.9   105.2                 53.4    66.5    69.7    67.0
Total                                                 75.6    93.Z   116.4   168.1   149.0   157.0                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Fiscal Yeard/ at Current US$ million                             As percentage of GDP e/
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982                         1977    1979    1981
PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCES
Currept revenue                                        135.8   158.7   197.1   231.8   284.3   301.9                          31.1    35.4    34.3
Current expenditure                                    128.2   143.6   160.7   193.3   241.8   271.9                          29.3    28.9    29.2
Current surplus/deficit                                  7.6    15.1    36.4    38.5    42.5    30.0                           1.7      6.5      5.1
Capital revenue                                          -        -       0.2      0.3      -       0=8                        -        -       -
Capital expenditure and net lending                     37.3    48.9    37.6    48.6    75.0    89.4                           8.5      6.6      9.0
Overall surplus/deficit                                -29.7   -33.8    -1.0    -9.8   -32.5   -58.6                          -6.8    -1.0    -3.9
Financing (net)                                         29.7    33.8      1.0      9.8    32.5    58.6                         6.8      4.0      3.9
External                                              (5.8)  (14.2)  (15.2)   (6.5)  (40.7)  (45.6)                         (1.3)   (2.7)   (4.9)
Domestic                                             (23.9)  (19.6) (-14.2)   (3.3)  (-8.2)  (13.0)                         (5.5)  (-2.6)  (-1.0)
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value Added                        Employment                       V.A. Per Worker
US $ Mln.    X                    Thousands    %                      US$           %
Agriculture                                             63.0      7.7                       9.5      9.2                    6632       82.8
Industry                                               174.8    21.2                       21.8    21.2                     8018      100.1
Services                                               585.6    71.1                       71.5    69.6                     8190      102.3
Total/Average                    823.4   100.0                      102.8   100.0                     8010      100.0
a/  Private consumption estimated as a residual.
b/ Includes changes in stock.
c/  Differs from custom figures because of timing adjustment.
d/ Barbados' fiscal year runs from April to March.
e/  As percentage of previous calendar year GDP.                                                                                     February 9, 1983



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BARBADOS - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(US$ million at current prices)
Actual                        Est.
1977     1978    1979    1980    1981         1982
Exports of Goods - NFS                          276.2   345.9   454.5   594.5   585.0   574.0
Goods                                         108.0   131.1   176.5   202.1   184.0   192.0
Domestic a/                                 (81.5)  (99.2) (118.5) (168.1) (149.0) (157.0)
Re-exports b/                               (26.5)  (31.9)  (58.0)  (34.0)  (35.0)  (35.0)
NFS                                           168.2   214.8   278.0   392.4   401.0   382.0
Travel                                    (130.5) (162.2) (208.0) (253.7) (262.0) (241.0)
Other c/                                    (37.7)  (52.6)  (70.0) (138.7) (139.0) (141.0)
Imports of Goods - NFS                          319.1   372.2   498.4   622.3   677.0   670.0
Goods                                         272.5   314.3   425.4   525.5   574.0   560.0
Retained d/                               (246.0) (282.4) (367.4) (444.2) (507.0) (500.0)
Re-exports                                  (26.5)  (31.9)  (58.0)  (81.3)  (67.0)  (60.0)
NFS                                            46.6     57.9    73.0    96.8   103.0   110.0
Resource Balance                              -42.9   -26.3   -43.9   -27.8   -92.0   -96.0
Net Factor Services                              -1.8       1.7    -1.5    -8.5   -16.0   -16.0
of which interest on
public debt                               (-2.0)  (-3.1)  (-5.0)  (-5.9)  (-9.7) (-14.3)
Current Transfers                                15.9    16.7       22.0    21.6    25.0        25.0
Current Account                               -28.8     -7.9   -23.4   -14.7   -83.0   -87.0
Net Public Disbursements                         15.6      14.0      4.9     13.8    57.2    36.0
Disbursements                                23.2     19.3    12.6    21.3    64.3  (n.a.)
Amortization                                  7.6      5.3       7.7      7.5      7.1  (n.a.)                                                           (US$ million)
Actual
Commercial Banks                                 -3.6      -2.3    -0.4       4.2      10.0     13.0   EXTERNAL DEBT AND DEBT SERVICEg/    1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
Private Capital                                    7.9     18.9    26.9      15.4   -10.2        5.0   Public Debt
and erros and omissions                                                                                 Outstanding at end of period            55.4   69.4   74.3   88.1   145.3
Outstanding at beginning                39.8   55.4   69.4   74.3         88.1
Special Transactions e/                          -0.2      -0.6      1.6      1.6       1.0      -
Interest on Public Debt                    2.0     3.8     5.7      5.9      9.7
Change in Net Official Inter-                                                                         Amortization                               7.6     5.3      7.7     7.5      7.1
national Reserves                             9.1   -22.1    -9.6   -20.3         25.0     33.0
Increase)                                                                                       Debt Service                             9.6     9.1   13.4   13.4        16.7
As of                                                Debt Service Ratio h/                    4.7     3.6      4.1     3.2      4.2
December 1981
US$ mil.                                                   IBRD Share in Public Debt X              -       -       -        1.0      3.1
Total      Z                                              IBRD Share in Debt Service x             -       -       -       1.3       1.8
EXTERNAL DEBT                                   145.3   100.0
IBRD                                            4.5       3.1
Other Multilateral                             58.9    40.5
Bilateral                                      33.8     23.3
Other                                          48.1      33.1
a/  Includes sugar valuation adjustment.
b/ Includes stores and bunkers, 1977-79.
5/ Excludes stores and bunkers 1977-79.
t/ Differs from official custom figures because of adjustments to re-exports of stores and bunkers.
e/  Includes SDR transactions and exchange profits and losses on net off  i                          . .1 reserves.
f/  Minus - increase.
d/ Includes Central Bank.
h/  A percentage of domestic exports and tourist re-I                                                                                                                F,"-oary 9, 1963



ANNEX I1
-24-                            Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BARlBADOS
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of September 30, 1982
US$ million
(Amount less cancellation)
Loan          Year       Borrower      Purpose      Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
1642-BAR      1979       Barbados      Education    9.0      -         5.1
1685-BAR      1979       Barbados      Tourism       8.0     -         3.5
1813-BAR      1980       Barbados      Industry    10.0      -         7.8
1940-BAR      1981       BLPC          Power         6.0     -         6.0
2115-BAR 1/   1982       Barbados      Technical
Assistance   2.7      _         2.7
TOTAL                     35.7      -        25.1
of which as been repaid   0.7       -
TOTAL Outstanding         35.0
tement of IFC Investments as of September 30, 1982
None.
C. Projects in Execution as of September 30, 1982 2,1
Ln. No. 1642-BAR: Barbados Education Project; US$9.0 million Loan of
December 29, 1978; Effective Date: December 29, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Despite financial constraints, the Government has maintained
the first education project in high priority. Project implementation has
slowed during 1982. The Barbados Institute of Management and Productivity
(BIMAP) addition has been completed along with the Erdeston Teacher
Training College extension, three of the ten primary schools and one of the
six secondary school extensions. An additional three primary schools and
another secondary school will be completed by the end of 1982. The
technical assistance and fellowship components continue to be implemented
as scheduled, with quality results. About 43% of the loan has been
disbursed.
Not yet effective.
_/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



&NNEX 1LI
-25-                     Page 2 of 2
Ln. No. 1685-BAR: Barbados Tourism Project; US$8.0 million Loan of
April 27, 1979; Effective Date: August 24, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is experiencing some delays from the original
schedule. The bypass road is virtually completed. Most buildings are now
roofed and finishing works are in progress.  On site infrastructure (water,
drainage and road system) is also being constructed. Cost overruns, due to
unforeseen inflation of construction costs, have reduced the proportional
share of Bank financing and produced a severe incremental burden on the
Government budget.
Ln. No. 1813-BAR: Barbados Industrial Development and Export Promotion
Project; US$10.0 million Loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date: August 28, 1980
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The credit component of the project (US$3 million) is almost
fully committed, but the industrial estate component (US$5 million) is
lagging about a year behind schedule (only 25% committed), partly due to
reduced budgetary allocations from the Government. BIDC has introduced its
new pricing policy; however, its financial performance continues to
deteriorate mainly due to higher construction costs and the delayed and
limited effects of recent increases in rent on old leases that have yet to
expire. The Export Promotion Corporation (EPC) is fully staffed now and is
currently executing its plan of action which includes an export grant and
incentive scheme to be financed under the project.  NIB and BIMAP have both
prepared their proposals for use of funds allocated to them under the
project.
Ln. No. 1940-BAR: Barbados Power Project; US$6.0 million Loan of
February 19, 1981; Effective rate: November 30, 1981
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bids for all equipment financed under the loan have been
received and over 507% of contracts have been awarded. Studies on
generation expansion planning, energy conservation and regulatory
procedures have been completed. Tariff studies are in progress. The
capital investment program is progressing satisfactorily but has been
extended about two years because of reduced load growth.
In. No. 2115-BAR:  Barbados Technical Assistance Project; US$2.7 million
Loan of July 22, 1982; Effective Date:
Closing Date:  March 31, 1986.
This Loan is not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
BARBADOS
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:   5 months.
(b) Project prepared by: CBB, with Bank assistance.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: May 1982.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: September 1983.
(e) Completion of Negotiations: March 1983.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: August/September 1983.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) CBB will establish an Industrial Credit Fund (ICF) with separa
financial resources, accounts and staff to provide financing t
industrial and tourism enterprises through participating financial
intermediaries (paragraph 56). The establishment of the ICF would
be a condition of effectiveness (paragraphs 56 and 67).
(b) CBB will recruit a qualified person (staff or consultant) to manage
ICF operations (paragraph 57). The hiring of such a person
acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness
(paragraphs 57 and 67).
(c) Approval by CBB's Board of a Statement of Policies satisfactory to
the Bank regarding the ICF would be a condition of effectiveness
(paragraphs 57 and 67).
(d)  Interest rates in Barbados will be reviewed periodically, at least
once a year, by CBB and the Bank (paragraph 63).



IBRD-17103
C \ 80   70-        MARCH 193
North Po,ot                                                     1                  APnANT/C
0 CPA N                N
S                                                      5                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 400
I<MS    40
CRABHILL                                                                                          .M                                  400
DOMINICANJ          MILES
K     /            /          PIE CORNER                                      -AITt                       -? ERTO RiCO
JAMAiCA       Ss 7,
Coribbecan  Seac
CLINKETTS} -(0Y_PNM  ,- 0
PANAMA      /
<   >   w-)       \                %            < XtJ  ~~~~~~~~~~~~SC U T H  7A tt E R I C A  
OLD ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~UI
SPEIGHTS-      L_    p <   - 17   ,AS MILL                                                                 T             RLEPLAINE
TOWN :F\
t              9^~~SWMPS0'            {          \C
1   t                2 ~~~~HILLABY     CATTLEwAs            BATHSHEBA
q 4 i /WELCHMANS g X g ' <\
> E ~~~~~~~~HALL                                                                CO l   LLET ',
-HOLETOWN  |        /       {O'   j-          o) -  
r   S1  . )      g    S         .J    z           t      U   S 'N1         <           ~~~~~~~~MARLEY'
W  t   %   /      -         m      v                  ',                      ,<A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VLE    '
o
X   Oe                     s          o             =          C                  &             X    T     HEJACCRONE
BRIDGETOWN *I                       ;                                            7>  -4 \                              R.-gePoWBt
~~~~~~~~~~~ITN bee  Wae    .s -;                                        /         
BAR BADOS~~~~~~~~~~~~SARE
BRIDGETOWN
HASTING                                                                  A IRTYR
St LAWRENCE
N
South Polnt
BAR BADOS
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
ThNs map has been preptred by The World Banks  stff e-xtusiety for the con-errence of
the maders and s excaswsely fsr ip,thrseai use of The Worts BSek and the IOtersational
.r  BUILT-UP AREAS                                     Frnance Corporahen The desncshhos seed and the be_da*es shoes on this *ap do not
,mptIy -s thle part ot The Wend Bash and tlee Ilertnahna F,nanoe Gorportion, aspjUdgsren
MAJOR R OADS                                      on Me leg.a shatos of any hreratoy or any esdorsemest or acceptance of sash boendaries
PARISH BOUNDARIES
-    -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                          0       1       2        3       4       5
I       I       I       I       I       I
MILES



