                                        Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 30064

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-36770)

                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.5 MILLION
                               (US$17.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                           LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                                           FOR A

                      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT




                                        May 11, 2004




Southeast Asia Country Unit
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective as of May 2005)

               Currency Unit = Kip
                         1 Kip = US$ 0.00009504
                         US$ 1 = Kip 10,522

                       FISCAL YEAR
               October 1 -     September 30

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB       Asian Development Bank
AFTA      ASEAN Free Trade Agreement
APB       Agricultural Promotion Bank
ASEAN     Association of Southeast Asian Nations
BCEL      Banque pour le Commerce Extérieur Lao
BOL       Bank of Lao People's Democratic Republic
BPKP      Bolisat Phattana Khet Phoudoi (SOE)
BPO       Business Promotion Office
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPC       Committee for Planning and Cooperation
DAFI      Development Agriculture Forestry Industry (SOE)
EdL       Electricité du Laos
FMAC      Financial Management Adjustment Credit
FMCBC     Financial Management Capacity Building Credit
HIPC      Highly Indebted Por Country
IBA       International Banking Advisor
LDB       Lao Development Bank
MAF       Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MOJ       Ministry of Justice
MOU       Memorandum of Understanding
NBCA      National Biodiversity Conservation Area
NGPES     National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy
NPL       Non-Performing Loan
PER       Public Expenditure Review
PIP       Public Investment Plan
PIU       Project Implementing Unit
PMO       Prime Minister's Office
PRGF      Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PrMO      Procurement Monitoring Office
PRSC      Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
SARS      Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome

SCB                 State-owned Commercial Bank
SOE                 State-owned Enterprise
UNDP                United Nations Development Programme
WTO                 World Trade Organization



                        Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                     Country Director      Ian C. Porter, EACTF
    Chief Economist and Sector Director    Homi Kharas, EASPR
                        Task Manager:      Kazi Matin, EASPR

                       LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            18
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P068069                                                  Project Name: Laos PDR FMAC
Team Leader: Kazi Mahbub-Al Matin                                    TL Unit: EASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 11, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Laos PDR FMAC                                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-36770
   Country/Department: LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                   Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Banking (36%); General industry and trade sector (25%); Central
                            government administration (21%); Forestry (11%); Power (7%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Standards and financial
                            reporting (P); Other economic management (S); Macroeconomic
                            management (S); Other financial and private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/06/2001                                     Effective: 11/20/2002                12/20/2002
     Appraisal: 04/23/2002                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/25/2002                                      Closing: 05/31/2003                 05/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Jayasankar Shivakumar
Sector Manager:                 Homi Kharas                                    Homi Kharas
Team Leader at ICR:             Kazi Matin                                     Ijaz Nabi
ICR Primary Author:             Thang-Long Ton


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1. Background. The government of Lao PDR initiated the New Economic Mechanism in
1986, undertaking a program of structural reforms to make the transition from a centrally-planned
system to a market-oriented economy. This transition to a market economy has been sustained
even if the process of doing so has been uneven, circuitous and slow. The government appears to
remain committed to reforms to move the country towards a market economy, even if it is done at
its own, gradual and somewhat halting pace. This slow but sustained movement has changed the
structure of the economy of Lao PDR quite significantly between 1986 and 2000, and even more
so by 2004. The shares of private sector, of international trade and of foreign investment in the
economy of Lao PDR underwent a significant transformation and those shares are in some cases
larger than in Vietnam or in China. (1)

        (1) Trade as a share of GDP had jumped three fold to more than 50 percent and foreign investment had jumped to
            nearly 2 percent of GDP from negligible levels. The share of state-owned enterprise sector in manufacturing
            output had dropped to less than 20 percent and the share of private sector in bank credit had risen to more than
            70 percent.


3.1.2. This transformation over the 1990s was accompanied by respectable GDP growth rates
that have helped to reduce poverty significantly. Overall, the incidence of poverty has fallen from
46 percent in 1992/93 to 39 percent in 1997/98 and to 33 percent in 2002/03 on the basis of
preliminary estimates. Rural poverty has fallen much more, from 52 percent in 1992/93 to 38
percent in 2002/03. In other words, improvements in policy and institutional environment of the
Lao PDR during this period proved supportive of GDP growth and poverty reduction, despite the
huge room for further enhancement.

3.1.3. The structural transformation and poverty reduction occurred in the 1990s
notwithstanding the difficulties that were faced by the Lao PDR during the East Asian regional
crisis. In the 1997-99 period, however, the government, in the search for food security, adopted a
large irrigation-investment program aimed at increasing and stabilizing rice output. But this
program was financed mainly by printing money, resulting in serious imbalances in the fiscal,
monetary and external accounts, including triple-digit headline inflation in 1998-1999. The
process of transition towards a market economy stalled with some of the earlier reforms even
reversed (e.g., stopped publication of budget). The ongoing programs of international financial
institutions in support of reforms were thus suspended prematurely.

3.1.4. To restore macroeconomic stability, the authorities re-embarked on a program to stabilize
the economy through tight fiscal and monetary policies since 2000 and solicited financial support
from the international financial institutions. The IMF resumed assistance to the Lao PDR after a
hiatus of several years, with the IMF Board approving a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PRGF) of $40 million equivalent in 2001 to support the government's goal of restoring
macroeconomic stability. Structural reforms were also revived at around the same time. The
economy responded positively to improved fiscal management and a stabilizing monetary policy
with sharp limits on central bank financing. Inflation fell sharply in 2000 and again in 2001.




                                                         - 2 -

3.1.5. With a stabilized macroeconomic environment, the government of the Lao PDR re-started
its small steps to open the economy further to trade and investment, implementing its
commitments under the ASEAN Free Trade Agreement (AFTA), negotiating its bilateral trade
agreement with the U.S., and streamlining its foreign investment procedures. This no doubt
helped to improve incentives for investment, production and exports and the economy responded.
However, structural weaknesses in the use and management of public resources continued to
undermine effective public investment and efficient delivery of basic public services. The
government sought the World Bank's financial assistance in 2001 to help address these underlying
structural weaknesses in the areas of public expenditure management, state enterprise reform and
the banking sector restructuring, i.e., to improve overall public resource management, especially
its transparency, its accountability and its efficiency. The Financial Management Adjustment
Credit (FMAC) was approved by the World Bank Board in June 2002, following nine months of
implementation of various reform actions. It was designed to support the government's program
of reforms in the above areas.

3.1.6. Objectives. The government's overall development objective was to improve the
transparency, accountability and efficiency of public resource management, with a view to
supporting poverty reduction and sustainable growth. This objective recognized the paramount
need to take into account the close relationship between budget management, state-owned
enterprise operations and the banking sector which affected the use of public resources. The
FMAC supported that program as follows:

(1)     Public Sector:
        a. Budget Management: Overall strengthening of prudent fiscal management;
        b. Natural Resource Management: Better management of the country's resources ­ in
            forestry by involving local communities in their management and improving regulation
            of conservation and in the energy sector in order to improve revenues contribution to
            the budget and better and low-cost reliable services;
(2)     State-Owned-Enterprise Sector (SOE): Enhancing the oversight of financial and
        operational performance of SOEs, enterprise restructuring, and rationalization of the
        regulatory framework;
(3)     Financial Sector: Strengthening commercial operation of the state-owned commercial
        banks (SCBs) and developing a policy framework for promoting rural micro-finance
        operations in future.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1. There was no revision in the objective of the project.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1. To help realize the above objectives, the reform program supported by FMAC consisted
of the following components:

(1)     Public Sector Component:
        a. Budget: Undertaking measures for greater planning and streamlining budget execution



                                                   - 3 -

            and controls through increased transparency, better accounting classification, control
            and accountability in the budget process and administration;
        b. Natural Resource Management: Establishing incentives for participatory management
            of forestry resources; and implementing the monitoring and rationalization of the
            regulations in support of participatory sustainable forest management and control
            while creating opportunities for the energy sector to provide low-cost reliable
            electricity to the country and better and effective contribution to the budget.
(2)     SOE Sector: Strengthening operation of the SOE sector through increased transparency
        of information, better monitoring and greater accountability of their performance, through
        the restructuring of selected large troubled SOEs in order to reduce their generation of
        further contingent liabilities, and through revision of tariffs and adoption of appropriate
        tariff policy for infrastructure SOEs; and better rationalization of the regulatory
        framework;
(3)     Financial Sector: Stabilizing and strengthening the financial conditions of the banks ­ by
        restructuring their finances and their operations to stabilize their balance sheets, and
        increasing transparency of information ­ and launching micro/rural finance activities to
        allow better financial access to rural people and to aid in the effort toward poverty
        reduction.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1 There was no revision in the components the reform program supported by the credit.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1 FMAC was the culmination of a series of core diagnostic and country advisory work,
including a Public Expenditure Review (PER) (jointly with ADB and IMF), a Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA), a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), a
report on "The Banking and Financial Sector of Lao PDR ­ A Financial Sector Note" (2) (jointly
with ADB), and various short pieces in the area of forestry, power and SOEs more generally.
The financial sector work was conducted for several years through a close, continuous in-depth
policy dialogue between the staff of the World Bank, ADB and the government. It identified
special features and weaknesses in the Lao PDR banking sector that needed to be addressed so
that the sector could provide efficient services and an enabling environment for sustained
economic growth. (3)

        (2) The World Bank, IMF, and ADB, Laos - Public Expenditure Review and Country Financial Accountability
            Assessment, Combined Report in 2 volumes, June 28, 2002. The World Bank, Lao PDR ­ Country Procurement
            Assessment Report, Report No. 25334-LA, January 10, 2002. The World Bank, The Banking and Financial
            Sector of Lao PDR: Financial Sector Note, Financial Sector Group, Poverty Reduction and Economic
            Management Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region, 15 July 2002.
        (3) The report provided essential ingredients in the design of a financial sector reform operation which was
            originally envisaged in the CAS. The preparatory work for this planned operation was later incorporated into
            one of the three components of FMAC for a more encompassing approach to the financial challenges that
            enfolded not only the financial sector, but also the public and the SOE sectors in the Lao PDR.


3.5.2 The preparation of the FMAC also took into account the changing context for Bank's
activities in and assistance to the Lao PDR that resulted from a series of developments. These



                                                            - 4 -

included the initiation of greater coordination with other multilateral and bilateral donors, the
completion by the government of the National Socioeconomic Development Plan (2001-05), the
preparation of the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) in 2001 based on that plan
and consultations with stakeholders. This was also the time when the government requested
World Bank support for the proposed Nam Theun 2 hydropower project and the World Bank
viewed formulation and implementation of a sound medium term development framework as a
key part of the Bank's decision process for this project. The FMAC and its technical assistance
complement, the Financial Management Capacity Building Credit (FMCBC), were intended to
help establish a stable macroeconomic framework through better public resources management
and to revive the reforms that had been stalled during the East Asian crisis.

3.5.3 Results of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) findings. The FMAC was reviewed by
QAG in September 2002 for quality at entry assessment. (4)                All aspects of the operation were
assessed as "satisfactory" except for the "implementation arrangements" which were judged to be
"marginally satisfactory." The QAG Panel rated FMAC as "well designed" with regard to the
core structural policy objectives (which recognized the crucial needs to improve public financial
management), and with regard to the components (which consisted of a set of well-coordinated
reforms, given the interrelationship between budget management, SOE reform, and financial
sector in overall public resource management. The QAG Panel gave credit to the extensive
analytical work underpinning the project and to the team's approach, taking into account the
changing context for Bank's activities in the country. The panel also commended the FMAC
team for its efforts to discuss components of the credit with a range of government counterparts
in spite of the opaque decision-making process in the Lao PDR.

        (4) Quality Assurance Group, Quality at Entry Assessment ­ Panel Report ­ Lao PDR ­ FMAC, September 2002.


3.5.4 However, it cautioned the staff on the need for adequate implementation arrangements,
despite the fact that FMAC was supported by a companion technical assistance and
capacity-building project, the FMCBC, which sought to bolster FMAC implementation. The
QAG panel rated the "Implementation Arrangements" as "marginally satisfactory" due to the
likelihood that the operation will be delayed in terms of the timing of the second tranche release.

3.5.5 The QAG panel assessed the likelihood of achievement of the operation in three areas
which were rated as high importance by the task team ­ structural and sector policy reform,
macroeconomic management, and institutional development. The panel view was that the
contemplated achievements in structural and sector policy reform and macroeconomic
management were likely. However, the achievement of the area of institutional development was
viewed as uncertain "because of the questions that remain concerning the ownership by the
Laotian authorities of reforms and of the associated technical assistance efforts and given the
uneven track record of past technical assistance efforts in Laos." The uncertain institutional
development impact also underpins the Panel's conclusion that "the longer term sustainability of
the operation was uncertain" as significant deepening of policy and institutional reforms were
prerequisite for sustained growth and poverty reduction. In the Panel's view, the reforms
supported under this credit would help to lay the groundwork for achieving the goals of poverty
reduction and private sector development, but "their achievement through this operation is



                                                        - 5 -

uncertain."

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1 All the reform measures supported by FMAC were implemented by the closure of the
project, though this was done with a year's delay. Notwithstanding the delay in implementation,
the project is considered to have achieved most of its development objectives. The outcome of
the operation is thus rated by the ICR as "satisfactory."

Macroeconomic framework

4.1.2 Overall, the implementation of reforms supported by FMAC benefited from an improving
reform environment during 2002-2004. The macroeconomic environment was improving and an
IMF program under its PRGF was being implemented at the same time. The government also
launched an extensive consultative process to prepare the National Growth and Poverty
Eradication Strategy (NGPES), equivalent to a full PRSP. The NGPES was presented to the
Donors' Roundtable Meeting in September 2003, approved by the National Assembly in October
2003 and after revisions in June 2004, was submitted to the World Bank and the IMF in
November 2004. (5) The NGPES articulated the Lao PDR development framework for poverty
reduction, specified the targets and goals that the country valued and indicated the policies and
public expenditure programs that will be needed to achieve those goals.

        (5) Lao PDR, National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES), June 2004; and World Bank, Joint Staff
            Advisory Note, November 5, 2004.

Table 1. Lao PDR ­ Macroeconomic Indicators, 2000-2004
                                                                  FMAC Implementation Period

                                                          2000      2001        2002          2003        2004
                                                                                              Prel.       Prel.
Real GDP Growth (%)                                           5.8      5.8        5.8           5.3          6.0
Headline Inflation (end-of-period, %)                       25.1       7.5       15.2          12.6          8.6


External sector
 Exports of goods (US$ million)                              345      334        340            401          437
 Imports of goods (US$ million)                              562      542        570            618          752
 Current account balance (% of GDP) 1/                       -1.4     -3.7       -5.4          -5.5          -8.5


Budget (fiscal year basis):
 Revenue (% of GDP)                                         16.9     16.3        14.5         13.2          13.2
 Expenditures (% of GDP)                                    21.5     20.7        18.4         19.0          17.2
 Current budget balance (% of GDP)                           -4.6     -4.4       -3.9         -5.8           -4.0
Note:   1. excluding official transfers.
Source: IMF and World Bank, derived from data provided by the Lao PDR.




                                                        - 6 -

4.1.3    Performance in respect of growth and poverty reduction has been good during 2001 to
2004, the period of FMAC implementation (Table 1). (6) Real GDP growth in 2004 reached 6
percent (from 5.3 percent in 2003 due to SARS) and is expected to be higher in 2005. Virtually
all sectors contributed to this improved growth performance. Agriculture and hydro-power
output recovered from drought last year; tourism did better following lower arrivals in 2004 due
to the SARS outbreak; and manufacturing picked up on the back of strong domestic demand. In
addition, private investment and exports performed better. Headline inflation averaged 11 percent
a year during 2001-2004 compared to an average of nearly 70 percent a year during 1997-2000.
After rising briefly in 2002, headline inflation has been falling consistently to reach single digits in
December 2004 and 7.5 percent in February 2005. This has been accompanied by a significant
adjustment in fiscal deficit in 2004. The macroeconomic and FMAC program performance
indicators and the outcomes at the completion of the operation are presented in the tables in
Annex 1.

        (6) Prior actions were implemented during June 2001-June 2002 and second tranche actions were implemented
            during the following two years.

4.1.4 Fiscal performance. Fiscal performance was mixed, largely because of the decline in
revenue collection in 2002-03. This in turn was due mainly to declining timber royalties resulting
in part from stricter enforcement of the log export ban, the fall in non-tax revenue and the
turnover taxes, the decline in provincial contributions to the consolidated revenue accounts of the
central government, and the reduced import taxes. Total revenue fell by 1.2 percent of GDP,
expanding the fiscal deficit as the government did not lower total expenditure. To address the
revenue shortfall, the government increased the petroleum taxes, made special efforts to ensure
that provincial contributions be deposited on time and initiated the process of centralizing the
customs and tax administration.

4.1.5 Revenue performance improved in 2003-04 as various measures were adopted. After a
sharp fall from 2001, total revenue stabilized in 2003-04 at around 11 percent. The tax effort was
considerably higher than the aggregate numbers suggested; tax revenue (excluding timber
royalties) rose from 8.1 percent in 2002-03 to 8.9 percent of GDP in 2003-04, a rise of 0.8
percent of GDP, (7) in part from higher rates of petroleum taxes and in part from better collection
effort from the provinces. Other revenue measures have been implemented whose impact would
be evident in 2004-05. The government has taken steps to establish greater control over the
seven main international customs checkpoints.(8) Exemptions are being streamlined, especially
those relating to investors.

        (7) IMF "Article IV Consultations" Selected Issues Papers, November 2004.
        (8) Including, enhanced supervision of the checkpoints by visiting headquarter teams, transfer of authority over the
           staff at the checkpoints to the central Customs Department, and deposit of revenues into central government
           accounts.

4.1.6 Monetary performance. After rapid credit expansion through mid-2002, the government
credit policy has been generally restrained. The Bank of Lao PDR (BOL) implemented cautious
bank lending practices to control the growth of nonperforming loans and to initiate bank
restructuring. The slowdown in credit growth in 2003 also came from large credit repayments
during May-September 2002. Net domestic assets of SCBs have been declining slightly, with



                                                           - 7 -

tightened credit appraisals and some repayments. Stronger banking supervision has made banks
more cautious about expanding credit.

4.1.7 External sector. In 2004, the external sector was performing well with improved earnings
in exports compared with 2003 and 2002. Higher exports were driven mainly by garments,
electricity, mining and coffee, fueled by growth in China and neighboring countries, faster world
trade growth, and improved access to US markets. Imports also grew, and consisted of
machinery, equipment, and raw material for the garment industry. With a higher import bill, the
current account balance recorded a deficit of 8.5 percent of GDP, compared with 5.4 and 5.5
percent of GDP in 2002 and 2003 respectively. In 2004, the Kip fluctuated slightly against the
US Dollar and the Thai Baht but overall remained stable. It remained vulnerable though as the
main sources of weakness continued to be the budget deficit and the current account deficit.

4.1.8 External Debt. Public and publicly guaranteed external debt amounted to US$1.9 billion
or 92 percent of GDP in 2003 from the latest available data. SOEs accounted for about 5 percent
of the debt stock. Most of Lao PDR's external debt--about 70 percent of the nominal stock at
end-2003--consisted of concessional loans from multilateral creditors, primarily the World Bank
and ADB. Russia was the biggest bilateral creditor, accounting for almost 80 percent of the
bilateral debt stock at end-2003. Following the rescheduling agreement, Russian debt was
estimated at $387 million (end 2003), after applying a 70 percent upfront discount and an
exchange rate of 0.6 rubles per dollar. The most recent Debt Sustainability Analysis (9) concluded
that in the medium-term Lao PDR's debt service burden was manageable, provided economic
reforms--especially on the fiscal front--were maintained. However, the high stock of external
debt placed Lao PDR in a high-risk category among low income countries. The country could be
potentially eligible for HIPC debt relief, although the authorities do not intend to avail themselves
of such relief due to high transactions costs of the HIPC procedures and to possibly reduce access
to bilateral and commercial inflows that would outweigh the gains from debt relief in the medium
term. Lao PDR is now eligible to receive most and possibly all future IDA financing in the form
of grants, thereby reducing public sector borrowing requirements, and this should contribute to
easing the debt burden over time.

        (9) The Debt Sustainability Analysis, completed in November 2004, was jointly prepared by the IMF, World Bank
        and the ADB.


FMAC-Supported Reform Program

4.1.9 The implementation of the reform program under FMAC required vigorous efforts by the
Bank team to monitor progress frequently, and when necessary, to request ministers and
vice-ministers to appoint more competent officials in the ministries and agencies where
implementation was not making much progress. The delays in implementation, especially in
actions for the second tranche release, reflected in part the weak technical capacity of the relevant
ministries and agencies, and in part the resistance and political challenges at the national and
provincial levels, especially in respect of SOE reform. (10) This apparently mirrored the
ambivalence in the leadership (11) about the specifics as well as the pace of various reforms. There
was also the problem of coordination among the ministries responsible for implementation of the
reforms, common to many developing countries. The additional complication was the


                                                           - 8 -

government's reluctance to use the FMCBC, even if it has very soft terms, to hire the needed
external technical consultants for developing detailed restructuring plans for the large SOEs. (12)
This was certainly true in the case of actions related to public investment planning and to SOE
restructuring: Appointing the right technical people made a huge difference, but it took time for
the government to make these. On other occasions, the Bank team had to convince several parts
of the top leadership that there were no alternatives to a specific reform measure if the
government wanted to achieve the agreed reform objective. (13) The implementation of the
program supported by FMAC thus proceeded on a gradual, even halting, pace and required close
and frequent supervision by the Bank team and the government's project team.

        (10) The NGPES itself acknowledged that the "Lao culture and tradition requires continuous consultations even after
             a policy document has been completed, so as to ensure its adaptation and implementation in the local context."
             See Lao PDR, National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy, June 2004, p. 150.
        (11) The senior leadership in the party with a background and strong commitment to a traditional socialist society,
             operate and arrive at any decision on a collective basis and more often than not need a consensus among all the
             members before taking any action. This method of governing naturally requires a lot of time and efforts before
             any decision can be taken. For an outsider, this projects either an image of indecision or resistance to structural
             adjustments. However, for the Lao PDR, this process of building consensus would help eventually strengthen
             the ownership of the program.
        (12) It took six months to get BPO and MOF to agree to use the proceeds of that Credit to hire external consultants,
             first because they wanted to do the plans themselves and second, when those plans were inadequate, to wait for
             mobilizing grant financing which was not forthcoming.
        (13) For example, it took a long time to persuade the leadership that the difficult choices highlighted in the detailed
            restructuring plans for BPKP and Lao Airlines (e.g., sell non-core assets and obtain foreign airline as
            joint-venture partner respectively)were unavoidable, if these enterprises were to operate without draining the
            banks and the budget. Similarly, high-level intervention had to be orchestrated in order to get DAFI
            management to finalize the MOU, though doing such an MOU for DAFI had been agreed with the government
            before the FMAC was approved. Also, it took a long time to get the International Banking Advisors in place for
            the two SCBs because of efforts by some quarters to delay it and because some felt that they were asking for too
            high a remuneration.


4.1.10 The implementation of the public sector component was completed at a good pace
through the 2002-04 period with enhancement of budget transparency (detailed discussion in
paras. 4.2.3-4.2.5) with the annual publication of the budget since 2002, strengthening of budget
accountability and control with the adoption of the new charts of accounts in December 2003
(see para 4.2.3); and the establishment of the Procurement Monitoring Office (PrMO) in the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) (see para 4.2.5). Budget planning has been strengthened through a
set of important measures, including requirement for inclusion of recurrent cost estimates and the
development and adoption of methodology for estimating recurrent costs of investment projects
and the preparation of a strategy and an agenda for the reform of the Department of Treasury (see
paras. 4.2.5).

4.1.11 For the sub-component on natural resources management, the legal framework thus far
has established technically sound forest management with basic provisions for planning, mapping,
consultations, and control, etc. The key principles of village participation in sustainable
management of production forests were approved by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
(MAF) and the Prime Minister Office (PMO) (see para. 4.2.6). Other MAF regulations provided
clarification on the definitions and procedures governing zoning and land use within the National
Biodiversity Conservation Areas (NBCAs). Local communities are now legally able to get
involved in production forest management.


                                                             - 9 -

4.1.12 The reforms supported by FMAC in the SOE sector have helped the government to stem
the losses and thus increases in the contingent fiscal liabilities, especially from the large SOEs, as
well as to increase transparency in respect of performance of this sector (detailed discussion in
paras 4.2.7-4.2.12). The restructuring of large SOEs proceeded well but took longer. The draft
plans initially developed by the government and the SOEs on their own were found inadequate.
External consultants had to be selected to support the revision of those plans; and the reluctance
of the Government to use borrowed funds from the FMCB credit also had to be overcome. There
were also slippages in the implementation timetable for the preliminary restructuring measures
that were agreed to be taken at the beginning of the program, with the combination of the weak
capacity of MOF and related agencies to carry out the agreed measures, the need for close
coordination and cooperation among all government agencies and parties concerned.
Subsequently, there was also considerable reluctance to adopt restructuring measures proposed by
the consultants, leading to lengthy discussions and consensus-building processes and extensive
Bank supervision efforts to keep the momentum going in the implementation of the SOE
component, especially in getting the right officials to be put in charge of implementation as well as
in developing a constituency in the government for SOE reform. At the closure of the project,
while all the measures in this component were undertaken, they have only contributed to
establishing a beachhead to enable further work toward the government's objectives of a lean,
well-functioning and financially-sustainable SOE sector that would contribute effectively to the
economy as a whole.

4.1.13 The financial sector component was one of the important components of FMAC with the
longest gestation period in terms of preparation. Bank staff worked closely with senior officials in
the BOL and the financial sector with the overall aim to ensure macroeconomic stability via
banking reform, promote broad-based growth via a strengthened financial sector, and unleashing
the power of micro-finance. (14) The scope of the credit was later widened beyond the financial
sector, however. The rationale was that the problems in the budget, the SOEs and the banks were
closely linked and needed to be addressed jointly and consistently for reform effectiveness.

    (14)   In fact, the design of this component was the result of extensive work devoted originally to preparing a stand-alone
           financial sector credit, initiated by the Bank in late 1999.

4.1.14 To prepare the ground work for reform, Bank staff maintained a continuing dialogue on
financial and banking sector reform with BOL's leaders, prepared diagnostic studies, and
organized a series of seminars, conferences, and technical workshops, and a high-level policy
workshop to bring the country's officials up to date with the current banking and restructuring
practices for a market-oriented economy. Other multilateral institutions, i.e., ADB, IMF, UNDP,
and several bilateral donors participated. Through these activities, the expected objective was for
the Lao senior banking officials to articulate a vision for the financial sector, to establish their
ownership of this vision and the reform program to be supported by the credit, and lastly, to
facilitate the undertaking of needed banking and financial reform measures. These would
ultimately serve as a test for the government to demonstrate convincingly its political will to
restructure the financial sector.

4.1.15 As part of FMAC preparation, the government undertook a series of steps to stabilize the



                                                              - 10 -

balance sheets of the state-owned commercial banks (SCBs) and to improve the overall climate of
the financial sector. Specific measures included the management of SCBs' risk portfolio and
credit decisions and to formulate a framework for sound banking to support broad-based
economic growth, commitments to the autonomy of SCBs through BOL's notices covering
lending with commercial criteria, SCB's management selection, interest policies and SCB's
restructuring.

4.1.16 The findings from the Financial Note also led to the inclusion of a micro-finance
sub-component in FMAC with a second tranche release condition and in the country's financial
sector reform agenda. With close to 85 percent of the Lao population without access to formal
financial services, FMAC initiated the process of developing some understanding and consensus
on the policy framework for micro-finance institutions. The policy statement, the assessment and
the time-bound action plan, aimed at addressing the implementation of a rural and micro-finance
reform program, was approved by the Prime Minister in December 2003 and recommended a
commercial basis for the operation of rural/micro-finance in the Lao PDR. This statement,
prepared in close cooperation with the staff of the Bank and the ADB, benefited from extensive
consultations with relevant stakeholders, concerned ministries and agencies, micro-finance
practitioners, and international agencies involved in rural and micro-finance.

4.1.17 As with the SOE sector, however, the financial sector component experienced delays and
slow progress necessitating close Bank staff supervision. BOL's institutional weaknesses and
poor coordination between BOL, other government agencies, and the SCBs played a large part in
these delays; but could also be considered as a sign of weak commitment of the leadership to the
reforms in this sector. (15)

        (15) For example, during 2003, it took some time for the TORs for the audits which had been completed earlier to be
            sent to the PIU in MOF for action and contributed to the delay in the procurement process for international
            auditors and subsequently in getting the audits completed within the scheduled time frame.



4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1 The reform program is discussed in details below.

Public Sector Component

4.2.2 As discussed earlier, the public sector measures were achieved relatively on time
compared with the other components. These contributed toward stabilizing the budgetary
process and budget planning, strengthening budget execution and control by improving basic cash
management, reporting, auditing and control systems for public expenditures while promoting
transparency in fiscal management.

4.2.3 Budget transparency. Since April 2002, the annual publication of the budget (both plan
and outcome) in the Official Gazette contributed to the transparency in budget information: the
latest budget document published was in mid-2004 and related to 2002/03 outcome and the
2003-04 plan. In April 2004, the Accounting Department revised the chart of accounts (adopted
in December 2003) and the budget nomenclatures and reduced drastically the number of line items


                                                          - 11 -

ensuring that more details were available and financial control over revenues and expenditures
were enhanced. Training was initiated for MOF staff in order to implement the new chart of
accounts for the formulation of the 2004/05 budget. The classification system would need to be
revised further to accommodate the identification of administrative units and government levels
and to be harmonized with the accounting nomenclature.

4.2.4 Budget accountability. The Accounting Regulations issued in July 2002 put in place the
guidelines to enhance financial accountability and internal financial control over revenues and
expenditures. These cover basic internal control in each ministry, province, district and agency
and require that the provision of financial statements of the government be submitted to the
National Assembly at the end of each fiscal year. A methodology for estimating recurrent costs
was developed for core construction projects in the Public Investment Program (PIP). An
encouraging result was reported in 2003: recurrent costs were estimated for 96 projects from the
149 new construction-related projects in excess of 1 billion kip.(16)

        (16) 90 percent of new projects are construction or construction-related projects.


4.2.5 Budget planning, execution, monitoring and control. The Decree on management of
public investment issued in May 2002 would help correct the imbalance between investment and
recurrent expenditures in the budget in the near future. This decree specifically requires
submission of estimated recurrent costs associated with new public projects over one billion kip
from fiscal year 2002-03. The PrMO, established in MOF in 2003, oversees the implementation
of procurement processes and capacity-building activities, with a view to implement the revised
Procurement Decree and accompanying Implementation Regulations adopted in late December
2002 and early 2004. The Decree and its implementing regulations clarified the rules and
addressed all the weaknesses identified by the CPAR. MOF had also prepared a strategy and an
agenda for reform for the Department of Treasury, addressing its overall organization and
responsibilities, in line with the proposals discussed with the IMF and the World Bank teams for
more than a year. This strategy and reform agenda covered the following ten areas: legislative
framework, organization structure, management of sub-treasury operations, payments and
banking procedures, revenue collection system, cash management, debt management, accounting
system, financial reporting and information and communication technology requirements. The
government is expected to adopt this strategy and begin implementation, supported by FMCBC
and had requested technical assistance from the IMF.

4.2.6 National resource management. The authorities pursue a strategy of sustainable
management of production forests, through strengthening the regulatory framework and focusing
on bringing order and discipline to the exploitation of the country's production forest resources.
The strategy included the involvement of local communities in forest management specified in
legislative measures -- whose key principles of village participation in sustainable management of
production forests were approved by MAF and the PMO. Other MAF regulations provided
clarification on the definitions and procedures governing zoning and land use within the NBCAs
while eliminating inconsistencies and simplifying and clarifying wildlife management -- notably the
Decree issued in 2002 on sustainable management of production forest areas and regulations
issued in 2003 to enable the involvement of local communities in production forest management,
to clarify land use and remove inconsistencies in the protected species classifications,


                                                           - 12 -

simplification and clarification on wildlife management, and to provide clear mandates for
transporting, hunting, and captive breeding of wildlife. Improvements in the framework and the
enforcement are expected to continue beyond FMAC. The Sustainable Forestry for Rural
Development Project, financed by the Bank, currently assists the government to achieve
sustainable forest management of production forests, alleviate rural poverty in selected forest
areas, and help advance a broad set of forest policy reforms. There are, however, concerns with
the quality of implementation, especially with respect to local participation and benefit sharing,
given the lack of capacity in MAF itself and its Department of Forestry and the political resistance
at the national and provincial levels.

SOE Component

4.2.7 The stroke-of-the-pen measures aimed at strengthening the monitoring and oversight of
the SOE performance were undertaken quickly at the beginning of the program, during the
preparation of FMAC up to its presentation to the Bank's Board. These included decrees
stipulating reporting responsibilities, guidelines for controls over establishment of new SOEs,
publication of SOEs' financial performance as part of transparency in the public sector,
requirements for privatization and liquidation; prohibition on non-commercial lending to SOEs.
MOF issued the Implementing Regulations to the Decree on Management of SOEs in December
2002 with details on financial reporting requirements for SOEs. These regulations provided the
legal prerequisites to collecting and evaluating financial and operational data on SOE
performance. These data are going to be used for classification of SOEs according to agreed
performance criteria, thus strengthening further the monitoring of SOEs. Through an assessment
of financial performance of SOEs using agreed technical criteria, (17) MOF also identified nearly
25 percent of all 140 SOEs as making large losses and requiring sale or liquidation. (18)

        (17) The set of agreed technical criteria to assess performance include profitability, solvency, liquidity, debt
             management, operational activity, management capacity, industry experience, and viability of business plan.
        (18) Proposed actions were as follows:
             ·   From the 43 centrally-managed SOEs, seven were performing well with good financial reporting; four
                 needed performance improvements, and 25 needed both performance improvements and strengthening of
                 financial reporting.
             ·   From the 97 provincially-managed SOEs, seven were performing well with good financial reporting; two
                 required only strengthening of financial reporting and 64 needed both performance improvements and
                 strengthening of financial reporting.


4.2.8 There was slow and uneven progress in the actions under FMAC for the four designated
large SOEs, and their restructuring took longer than originally expected. Some preliminary
restructuring measures were undertaken in respect of Bolisat Phattana Khet Phoudoi (BPKP) ­
transfer of its ownership from Ministry of Defense to MOF, reduction of labor and reduction in
the number of activities from 56 to 9, and some financial restructuring steps were initiated for
Nam Papa Lao and Pharmaceutical Factory No. 3. But these were far from what was sufficient to
stop the losses and additional restructuring required further study and more detailed restructuring
plans.

4.2.9 The government and the management of SOEs were to develop detailed restructuring
plans on their own. But the trial-and-error process was time consuming and it turned out that



                                                             - 13 -

they could not do so without the support of external advice. In addition, some reluctance on the
part of the government to use funding from the FMCBC to hire external consultants because it
was not a grant resulted in further delays, as discussed earlier. Once this hurdle was crossed and
consultants were contracted, the government and SOE counterparts cooperated and developed
four detailed time-bound restructuring plans. Those plans were then disseminated to a larger
group of domestic stakeholders with workshops organized to generate a consensus on key
restructuring measures. Moreover, at several stages, decisions were needed from very high levels
of the Lao leadership, which also took more time.

4.2.10 For each of the four largest SOEs (BPKP, Nam Papa Lao, Pharmaceutical Factory No. 3,
and Lao Aviation), the government adopted time-bound restructuring plans in January 2004 and
the accompanying implementing guidelines in April 2004 with details on processes, restructuring
actions, monitoring requirements, and a clear timeline for action in 2004 and 2005. An initial set
of actions consistent with the restructuring plan were implemented, including changes in
management, reduction in labor force, reductions in number of non-core activities, and
reorganization to improve control. (19) In January 2004, Memoranda of Understanding (MOU)
for the five following SOEs ­ Development, Agriculture, Forestry Industry Group (DAFI); Lao
State Fuel Company; Société Lao Import-Export; and Road Bridge Construction Company No.13
­ were signed by the Business Promotion Office (BPO), the relevant ministry and the relevant
SOE. The Implementing Regulation of April 29, 2004 asks BPO to initiate the development of
time-bound restructuring plans and then to implement them, and in developing those plans, to
explore all restructuring options that may be necessary to make these SOEs commercially viable.
These MOUs were based on an initial assessment of financial and operational information of these
SOEs, and required that the adoption of these time-bound restructuring plans be completed as
soon as possible. The government revised and published new tariff structures for potable water
supply, the telecommunications sector and Lao Aviation in 2002 and in 2003, following
time-bound action plans, in an effort to move tariffs closer to cost-recovery levels. The
government also adopted explicit tariff policies (20) with respect to potable water supply,
telecommunication sector and Lao Aviation, articulating the key principles that would guide tariff
policy and tariff changes in the future. This included definition of cost, and cost recovery, triggers
and timing for changing tariffs and restrictive conditions when directed and transparent subsidies
would be acceptable. On telecommunications and water, these principles were detailed for
different types of services as well as for the same service in different locations. On Lao Aviation,
with the proposed shift to minority government shareholding, tariffs were to be formulated on a
cost-recovery and commercial basis as in the annual business plan, with a few possible exceptions
that would have to be supported by the government.

        (19) The details for each of the four SOEs are as follows:
        ·    BPKP. Several measures like reducing the number of activities from 58 to 9, lowering the size of the labor force
             and changing management were implemented during this period. The adopted restructuring plan envisages
             continuation of two core activities ­ wood and wood processing, as well as construction. Most of the non-core
             activities are proposed for sale or liquidation, with the exception of the tourism centre, which will be sold as an
             ongoing business. The plan specifies actions for financial and operational restructuring of the two core business
             lines, annual monitoring of performance of these core-activities to ensure that they are run in a viable manner.
        ·    Nam Papa Lao. Several restructuring measures like water tariff increases, various cost reduction measures and
             changes in management, have been implemented. The plan sets out the main directions for restructuring,
             including financial restructuring with debt-equity conversion and asset revaluation, various cost reduction
             measures, and better handing of material purchases and production, improved accounts receivables management



                                                             - 14 -

              and monitoring of overall performance.
         ·    Pharmaceutical Factory No. 3. Key measures in the restructuring plan include setting-up strict internal and
              credit control mechanisms, financial restructuring to enable the debt servicing of existing loans, re-focusing of
              product-lines along commercial lines and exploration of joint venture arrangement with a regional
              pharmaceutical manufacturer to strengthen management capabilities and introduce new technologies. Annual
              monitoring of progress in restructuring and in profitability is also part of the plan.
         ·    Lao Aviation. Following changes in management and some financial restructuring, the Government conducted
              an in-depth analysis of the financial and operational situation, including tariffs, to develop restructuring options.
              These options were subjected to extensive stakeholder consultations, after which the Government decided to
              convert Lao Aviation into a joint-venture entity with a strategic foreign partner, with Lao nationals owning 51
              percent, but Government becoming a minority shareholder. This will be done by issuing new shares and diluting
              the Government's holdings. In addition, the adopted plan also sets out the processes, the need of an external
              advisor to assist the Government in this transaction, and the decision to use cost-recovery or commercial tariffs
              except on routes that maybe subsidized by the Government for social reasons.
         (20) Prime Minister's Notices approving the recommendations of the Ministry of Construction, Transport, Post and
              Communication.


4.2.11 Electricité du Laos (EdL). The Financial Restructuring Plan for EdL, drawn up in 2001
and implemented during 2002-2004, was supported under the FMAC restructuring program and
was carried out successfully and relatively on time. This involved implementation of the following
measures: (a) Conversion of the government loans to equity, amounting to about US$77 million;
(b) Restructuring of terms and conditions of on-lent foreign loans with the reduction of the
interest rates for IDA, ADB and NDF loans which were deemed to be socially oriented to two
percent for the years 2001 through 2005; (c) Settlement of arrears from government offices. The
government agreed to a number of measures to reduce overdue receivables of government offices
due EdL; (d) Revaluation of fixed assets, necessary given the high inflation rates and the strong
deterioration of the Kip during the Asian financial crisis; (e) Review of tariff structure following
the power tariff study in 2002 and adoption of a three-year tariff-adjustment plan for all customer
classes, raising tariffs by 2.3 percent per month for a period during May 2002 to June 2004. The
financial status of EdL (a key SOE) has improved significantly during the program period as a
result. (21)

         (21) It must be noted that the above financial situation benefits from the restructured loans cited above, as well as
              some of the dividends from Government investments in IPP projects. Also, residential customer class receives
              significant cross-subsidies from most other classes of consumers.


4.2.12 At the conclusion of FMAC, the SOE component was completed and all the conditions for
the second tranche release were met by the government, enabling the reform program for the SOE
to continue, albeit at the pace dictated by the government's capacity and capability, accentuated
by the political need for consensus and the demands of the affected interest groups within the
government and the country. In hindsight, the delays allowed some needed time for the changes
and implementation to take place. At the same time, they acted as a constant pressure on the
officials to achieve the agreed actions under the operation, thus nurturing the environment for
reforms, while serving as the focal point for the attention of the senior government leadership and
encouraging the technical officials to complete the required activities.

Banking Sector Component

4.2.13 At the closure of FMAC, the government has undertaken some important initial actions
toward a comprehensive reform in the financial sector. FMAC supported the government efforts


                                                             - 15 -

to improve the overall environment for the financial sector, including stabilizing the balance sheets
of SCBs through controlling the growth of SCBs' risk portfolio and centralizing credit
decision-making at SCB's headquarters with a time-bound action for implementation. Further
actions sought to avoid the deterioration of the SCB's risk portfolio, implement risk
diversification rules, and effect autonomy of SCBs. BOL provided summary assessments for each
of the two SCBs (Lao Development Bank or LDB and Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao
or BCEL), as well as quarterly reports through the FMAC implementation period, including
quality of risk portfolio, risk diversification and concentration, and the autonomy of banks. These
assessments and quarterly reports presented a mixed picture showing varying degrees of progress
in these three areas. There was portfolio-quality deterioration through 2002, but improvements
were evident during 2003. Tighter controls on new lending and the introduction of certification
by the International Banking Advisors (IBAs) reduced total lending, but improved the quality of
the portfolio. BOL issued notifications to the banks to restrict lending when the incrementals or
the flow of non-performing loans (NPLs) exceeded a threshold. Though some of these
notifications were issued late, the SCBs restrained their lending successfully during this period;
the banks were thus in compliance with this "restricted lending regime" for more than
three-quarters of the time. There were also fewer "directed" or "policy" loans, suggesting that
banks were deciding, with the help of IBAs, more autonomously and on a more commercial basis.
Reductions in risk concentration were however more difficult to achieve, and remained a
weakness, given that a large portion of the NPLs in the largest SCBs were accounted for by a few
large private contractors who had not been paid by the government for their work.

4.2.14 The financial statement audits, compliance reviews and diagnostic reviews for the SCBs
for years 2001 and 2002, and for the Agricultural Promotion Bank (APB) for the 2000 balance
sheet and the 2001 accounts were completed according to international accounting and auditing
standards by the international auditors. The audit reports on these banks were reviewed and
found to be consistent with the agreed terms of reference and the purposes of the audits.

4.2.15 The four IBAs with satisfactory qualifications and experience initiated work in the first
quarter of 2003, in line with the agreed terms of reference. This involved comments on new
credit transactions, reviews of bank-wide issues and credit-risk reviews of a statistically significant
sample of the total portfolio of these banks.

4.2.16 An aggregate amount of SCBs' NPLs in excess of 100 billion kip has been resolved,
involving more than ten accounts, with a large number of accounts fully paid off. Most of the
resolutions of NPLs comprised of cash collections and recovery through sale of collateral.

4.2.17 The policy statement, the assessment and the time-bound action plan ­ aimed at
addressing the implementation of a rural and micro-finance reform program ­ were prepared by
the Lao authorities through a consultative process and were approved through the Prime
Minister's Notice 1760/CPMO.S dated 17 December 2003. In the preparation processes, the
Rural and Micro Finance Committee conducted extensive consultations with relevant stakeholders
including high-ranking officials (at both central and local levels), concerned ministries,
ministry-equivalent agencies, microfinance practitioners, and international agencies involved in
rural and micro-finance. The policy statement recommended a commercial basis for the operation



                                                  - 16 -

of rural and microfinance in the Lao PDR.

4.2.18 Overall, the achievements in this subcomponent provided at a minimum an environment
conducive to further reforms in this sector, which need to continue well beyond the support by
FMAC to ensure that the financial services needs of a growing economy are met and adequate
attention is paid to the less well-off segments of the society.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1. Not applicable. However, the project aimed to improve the efficiency in public resource
management and allocation and hence could improve returns on investment generally.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1. Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1. Overall, the actual impact of FMAC on institutional development is modest, but since
reforms are continuing under the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC), its potential impact
is likely to be greater and more sustained. The areas covered by FMAC ­ state enterprises,
state-owned banks and public expenditure management ­ are aimed at improving public resource
management, which is key in a country where effective use of government revenue from
hydro-power and mining projects will be important for growth and poverty reduction.

4.5.2. The project has brought about needed institutional changes in public financial
management. Several actions implemented under the FMAC related to greater transparency:
annual publication of the budget (outturn and plan), adoption of improved classification system
for public spending, implementation of reforms in the Treasury to enhance budget accountability
and control, and better planning of recurrent expenditures by requiring estimates of recurrent
spending to be included in large development projects. The Procurement system was also
strengthened under FMAC through the adoption of the Procurement Law and its Implementing
Rules & Regulations, as well as the establishment of the PrMO in MOF that was responsible for
monitoring and implementing the strengthened procurement rules and regulations. The basis for
transparent and efficient procurement system has been laid by FMAC actions, but only by its
proper use will this have significant impact on institutional development in this area.

4.5.3. In the SOE sector, there is now much greater attention to monitoring of annual
performance and signs of increasing accountability as a result of actions implemented under
FMAC and followed up under the PRSC. The legal requirements for SOE monitoring that were
put in place has now been implemented for two years, one of which was after the completion of
FMAC. Officials from ministries and agencies involved in the preparation of detailed
restructuring plans for the selected large SOEs are being implemented outside of FMAC. There
was sale of non-core assets, continued actions to reduce losses (e.g., Lao Airlines) and continuing
efforts at restructuring of debt and greater care in incurring new debt. SOE borrowing from
commercial banks, including SCBs, has fallen significantly and their share in total bank lending has



                                                 - 17 -

come down sharply in the last three years. However, there is still a long way to go for managerial
behavior to change fully towards wholly commercial operation. The adopted tariff policies and
structures have been implemented and the principles of cost recovery are influencing decisions -
though there is clearly resistance to such decisions being taken and there are delays in correcting
erosions in rate of recovery of costs. Nevertheless, discussions are taking place in the Lao PDR
when significant cost increases occur, especially in respect of potable water supply and electricity,
which is a positive sign. In addition, tariff in the telecommunications sector remains at acceptable
levels for the private sector. While these actions are relatively modest for this sector in terms of
institutional building, they contribute towards better management and monitoring of public
resources in the future.

4.5.4. The institutional development impact in the banking sector is somewhat limited under
FMAC. Nevertheless, the annual international standard audits for banks now appear to be a
regular feature ­ provided that external funding is available; banks are still not willing to fund it
themselves. Also, there appears to be a significant shift towards lending to the private sector such
that the share of SOEs in total lending, especially new lending, has fallen sharply. BOL benefited
from the preparation of the assessment exercise for two SCBs and the quarterly reports on quality
of risk portfolio, risk diversification and concentration, and the autonomy of banks, and on the
knowledge earned from the resolution of NPLs as stipulated under FMAC for the second tranche
release. BOL also benefited from the international banking advisors on lending and quality of the
portfolio, and on credit assessment. However, unless political interventions in lending fall
significantly, new NPLs will be higher than what it should be. BOL still faces important
challenges in the efforts to improve its capacity to manage risks and NPLs. Regarding the action
on rural and microfinance program, the institutional impact of the policy statement, the
assessment, and the time-bound action plan has been limited because the regulatory framework is
still not fully in place; however, there appears to be sufficient consensus for the efforts to carry
out these activities to continue.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1. The lack of clear decision-making channels in the ruling Lao People's Revolutionary
Party, during the consensus-building process to build up the commitment among its members,
contributed to the delay in the implementation of the project.

5.1.2. The weak administrative capacity among government ministries and agencies continued to
act as an encumbrance to the implementation of the project despite the amount of training
provided and the assistance from FMCBC, the companion technical assistance project. The
negative effect could be seen in the delays on the preparation of the restructuring plans in the SOE
sector, risk assessments of the SCBs, and plans for the resolution of NPLs, etc.

5.1.3. The weak coordination capacity among the relevant ministries and agencies affected the
timely implementation of legislative measures and its implementing guidelines, especially in the
SOE and banking sectors.




                                                     - 18 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1. The government's appointment of the PIU staff and its Director allowed the unit to play a
useful coordinating role.

5.2.2. The selection of the advisors/consultants ­ which was time-consuming ­ was a key factor
in the timely implementation of the specific components of the project.

5.2.3. The issuance of decrees and adoption of regulatory measures was within the control of the
government and related ministries and agencies and provided the appropriate legal and regulatory
framework for the reform measures to take place.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1. Most of the measures under FMAC ­ in the public sector ­ were under MOF guidance
and coordinated by PIU while measures in the financial sector were directly under BOL direction
and guidance.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1. The amount of the credit was approved by the Board at SDR 13.5 million (US$17.0
million equivalent), and was disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche of SDR 5.6 million
(US$7 million equivalent) was disbursed in December 2002 upon effectiveness. The second
tranche of SDR 7.9 million (US$10.0 million equivalent) was disbursed in May 2004.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1. The overall project sustainability is rated "likely" by the ICR. The rating is based on
several factors. First, there is a new reform momentum in the Lao PDR that has been underway
since 2001 and renewed commitment to go down the reform path. Second, the government has
become more firmly committed to integration with the region and the rest of the world. Lao
PDR's commitments under AFTA and the United State Bilateral Agreement ­ Normal Trade
Relations which was approved by the US Congress in November 2004 ­ oblige the country to
open its own goods market and a large part of its services sector over the next 3-5 years. Its
rising profile in ASEAN, including the recent hosting of the ASEAN Summit, and its working
party discussions to join the WTO, have strengthened further the leadership's incentive to honor
these commitments. Third, the share of the SOEs in manufacturing output and in GDP has shrunk
drastically over the last decade, making future growth and poverty-reduction more dependent on
private sector growth than in the past. Fourth, the poor benefited significantly over the past
decade's growth and the private sector contributed increasingly to the growth that made this
poverty reduction possible.          There is thus a growing domestic constituency for reforms to
maintain such growth and poverty reduction. Fifth, there is now greater stake in maintaining
macro-economic stability than ever before if the Lao PDR is to continue opening its economy and
ensuring private investment; in turn, SOEs and SCBs will be expected to be more transparent and
disciplined.



                                                    - 19 -

6.1.2. More importantly there is evidence that the government is continuing to implement several
parts of the program after FMAC closed in May 2004. The budget has continued to be published.
SOE restructuring of the four designated ones has also continued, including sale of non-core
assets. The bank restructuring program is also continuing, though pressures for lending on a
non-commercial basis remain; nevertheless increased transparency through international standard
audits and their review by MOF continue. In addition, amendments have been made to banking
law to allow more private financial institutions. On the budget side, the government is now hiring
two long-term advisors to help implement the multi-year public expenditure management
strengthening, suggesting continuation of reforms in this area.

6.1.3. Nevertheless, the country could be on a slower transition road to a market economy,
reflecting reported reluctance from the more traditional part of the Party and the government on
ideological grounds as well as from those who may lose from some of these reforms. It is very
likely that the pace of reform will remain gradual, even halting at times, for some years. The
government's NGPES, which highlights strong expressions of commitment to continuation of
reforms in all the FMAC areas as well as additional governance areas, gives cause for hope.

6.1.4 The above factors notwithstanding, the risk of resistance to reforms and significant
slowing down of reforms cannot be ruled out. The record of implementing previous adjustment
programs ­ i.e., cancellation of SAC III's second tranche ­ raises that question.(19) But that risk
is sufficiently low, given the factors above, to assess that the reforms supported by FMAC are
likely to be sustainable.

        (19)     OED, Project Performance Re-Assessment Report, Lao PDR, Second Structural Adjustment Credit, Report No.
            29493, June 24, 2004.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1. As discussed earlier, FMAC would serve as a basic building block for future Bank
support. The government has agreed to a PRSC in support of its NGPES implementation. The
first PRSC operation (approved by the Board in March 2005) is expected to continue supporting
many of the FMAC reform components. An investment project, the Sustainable Forestry for
Rural Development Project, which assists the government toward achieving sustainable forest
management of production forests with the aim to alleviate rural poverty in selected forest areas,
is doing the same in forestry.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1. The Bank's lending performance was rated as satisfactory. Bank staff prepared carefully
the credit with active dialogue and cooperation from the government officials. There was also a
long gestation period for the financial component which built up the technical knowledge of
banking officials to enhance the ownership of the program.




                                                    - 20 -

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1. Bank staff undertook close supervision from Bangkok with the involvement of senior
management, including the Country Director and the Chief Economist. The Task Manager
oversaw closely the implementation of the program to ensure that the required activities were
brought to a successful completion. As there was uneven progress in implementing activities
called for under the second tranche release, Bank staff spent large amounts of time in supervision
and monitoring the achievements of the project. In this regard, the location of the task manager
and the Country Director in the Bank's Bangkok office and the presence of the Bank
Representative in Vientiane contributed effectively and timely to the supervision and
implementation of the project with close coordination with the government agencies involved in
FMAC. Issues and delays in the implementation of the project were readily brought to the
attention of the task team and the Country Director who maintained a close working relationship
with senior government officials and were able to move the process along. The close supervision
by Bank staff and growing ownership of reforms in at least a part of the leadership contributed to
the successful conclusion of the operation and helped in some ways to avoid the results of the
third structural adjustment operation in 1996-1998.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1. The Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory with a long period of preparation
and close supervision during the implementation period. There was close attention from Bank
staff and management to ensure that the program of reform continues.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1. The government played an active role in the preparation of the credit.            There was
commitment from the senior officials to the development objectives of the project and active
participation in the preparation stage through continuing dialogue with Bank staff.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1. The government performance is rated as satisfactory with some qualification. While the
senior officials agreed and committed themselves to the objectives of the project, the country's
institutional capacity was weak and required additional time and efforts to translate these
objectives into reality. In addition, consensus building which was apparently required at each step
complicated and exacerbated the implementation of the project, resulting in delays and the need
for extension of the project's closure date.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1. Anticipating the implementation issues, the PIU was established in MOF under the
auspices of FMAC and its companion project, FBCBC, to assist the Minister in the day-to-day
project implementation. The PIU was headed by a senior MOF official who was closely involved
with the preparation of FMAC and FBCBC. Its members included representatives from MOF's
Budget Department, the Department of Treasury, the State Assets Department and MAF. The


                                                - 21 -

project was under the overall guidance of the PMO, the Committee for Planning and Cooperation
(CPC) and BOL. The PIU Director -- who made every effort to overcome the weak
administrative capacity and the serious challenge on coordination with other ministries and
agencies to fulfill the conditions for FMAC -- helped minimize further the delays, facilitated the
coordination among ministries/agencies as well as the supervision of FMAC and its companion
project, and contributed to the successful conclusion of the project. The performance of the PIU
and MOF, the main agencies responsible for the implementation of the project, was satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1. The overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. The government has brought
the project to a satisfactory closure in a challenging environment and weak civil service.

8. Lessons Learned


8.1.    The major lessons are:

        · Support, ownership and commitment of the top leadership of the government is critical
            not only during project preparation but also during the crucial stage of
            implementation, as was the case for the second tranche actions to ensure successful
            completion of the project.
        · Appropriate institutional arrangements for implementation ­ an inter-ministerial
            committee led by a politically powerful policymaker/leader ­ should be established so
            that it can manage coordination across ministries, and when necessary overcome
            resistance to implementation of agreed reforms. The absence of such a formal
            arrangement required constant but ad-hoc Bank efforts to obtain the attention and
            support of such leaders at various times during implementation.
        · In a low-income country, it is often difficult for outsiders like Bank staff to distinguish
            between a commitment-related problem of implementation and a capacity-related one.
            It was often unclear whether delays were due to weak capacity and poor coordination,
            or inadequate commitment and ownership. Close cooperation, frequent visits and
            continuing dialogue with government officials certainly helped Bank staff
            understanding of each situation, but initially the benefit of the doubt had to be given to
            the government, which obviously delayed remedial action.
        · At the same time, the urgency and importance of reform implementation created
            situations where the top leadership was encouraged to move Lao PDR officials with
            more competence and more capacity to agencies/ministries that were charged with
            FMAC implementation. In this way the project created incentives for improving
            capacity and using capacity.
        · A strong, knowledgeable and well-staffed PIU (in MOF for FMAC) under the
            guidance of a senior competent official, empowered to coordinate with other agencies,
            proved to be key in ensuring follow-up and monitoring of actions by other agencies
            and ministries involved in the FMAC-supported reform areas, as is often the case
            usually in an adjustment operation. However, this would have functioned even better
            if this PIU was a secretariat of a powerful inter-ministerial committee rather than one



                                                 - 22 -

  in a ministry.
· Second tranche feature in an adjustment operation: In the Lao PDR, disbursement of
  the second tranche suffered from delays and slippages apparently due in many ways to
  the less focused attention from the Borrower ­ vs. the highly focused period of
  appraisal and negotiations and the momentum built up for Board presentation. The
  multi-tranche credit presents a challenge to the government in fulfilling the conditions
  for the second tranche release, due to the need to maintain the momentum and the
  continuous attention required throughout the whole life of the credit.
· Bank's resident and regional country offices allowed for not only closer relationship
  with the client country, but also facilitated frequent supervision missions at reasonable
  financial and personal staff-cost. This was key to the implementation of the reform
  program, not only because of frequent monitoring, but also to understand where the
  problems were, what sort of additional support maybe needed and when higher-level
  political support was needed to keep the momentum.
· An appropriate time frame is required for the institutional-building components,
  especially in countries with weak civil service such as the Lao PDR. The project was
  extended for a year ­ but given its institutional components and low capacity as well as
  Lao PDR disposition to do things gradually ­ this was not surprising. The time that is
  actually taken to introduce changes in behavior in the SOE and banking sectors and in
  government's financial management will need to be acknowledged in planning similar
  projects.
· Assistance of a companion technical assistance project. Capacity building and
  institutional development activities that effectively address critical needs of an
  economy in transition in general and of the banking sector in particular require a
  strong technical assistance program. A weak civil service adversely affects the
  implementation of the structural reform program. Thus availability of technical
  assistance from donors and strong Bank team support are extremely crucial in
  low-income country with weak technical working level capacity. The accompanying
  technical assistance project proved extremely useful.
· However, it is important to ensure that such technical assistance is provided on a grant
  basis. The reluctance of low-income countries to borrow, even on soft terms, to
  finance mainly developed country consultants has to be factored into future technical
  assistance not only to Lao PDR but also to other countries under similar
  circumstances.
· The integration of microfinance in the project helps to create a poverty focus in the
  financial sector reform and promotes microfinance as an integral part of the financial
  sector activities, especially in the Lao PDR with dominant rural population.
· The overall favorable environment (regional integration ­ AFTA, bilateral trade
  agreements and the positive role of other international financial institutions )
  contributed to the project's successful completion.




                                        - 23 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

9.1.1 Requests were made to the Borrower for its contribution, but there was no response in
time for inclusion in the ICR.


(b) Cofinanciers:

None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

None

10. Additional Information




                                             - 24 -

 Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

 Macroeconomic Performance Indicators and Outcome

 Macroeconomic                         FMAC Indicator                        Outcome
 performance indicators
Inflation                    Single digit level for 12 months    Inflation has been falling since
                                                                 mid-2003 toward single digit: the
                                                                 end-of- period rate for 2004 is
                                                                 estimated at 7.4% (Sep 2004).
                                                                 The period average declines from
                                                                 15.5% in 2003 to an estimate
                                                                 11.9% for 2004.
 Foreign exchange rate       Stability maintained                The kip has been relatively stable
                                                                 for 2003 at around Kip 10,600 to
                                                                 the US dollar
 Fiscal deficit              For 2001/02: less than 5% of GDP    For 2001/02: 4.4% of GDP
                             For 2002/03: about 5% of GDP        For 2002/03: 4.1% of GDP
 Domestic bank financing of  Less than 0.5 % of GDP for 12       2000/01: 1.6%
 the fiscal deficit          months                              2001/02: 1.3%
 Education expenditure as a  For 2001/02: at least 10% of total  2001/02: 10.7% of total budget
 percent of total budget     budget                              2002/03:    9.9% of total budget
                             For 2002/03: programmed to be at
                             least 12% of total budget
 External financing program  Put in place for 2002/03            The external financing for 2002
 for the Balance of Payments                                     was in place and was fully
                                                                 programmed for 2003 and 2004.
 Budgeted expenditure on     For 2002/03: in line with the       Information unavailable for
 power projects              medium-term power development plan  inclusion in the ICR at its
                                                                 completion.




                                                  - 25 -

  FMAC Program Performance Indicators and Outcome

                      Indicators                                                  Status/Outcome
  I. Public Sector Performance Indicators
  A. Expenditure shares for health and education meet Health and Education shares in budget:
     or exceeded in FY2001/02 budget outturn and         2001/02: 16.2%
     shares in budget plan for FY2002/03 are increased 2002/03: 15.7%
     in line with the PRSP
  B. Unauthorized treasury accounts are identified and The process of closing bank accounts is on-going
     closed.
  C. The FY 2002/03 budget plan and the FY 2001/02       The FY 2002/03 budget plan and the FY 2001/02 outcome
     outcome are published with full sector detail.      were published in April 2002 with classification by
                                                         ministry, province, and services. Budget plans and
                                                         outcomes for subsequent years were published in April
                                                         2003 and July 2004, respectively.


II. SOE Reform Indicators
  A. At least 60 percent of all SOEs have provided       The government has confirmed that more than 60 percent
     quarterly reports to MOF, consistent with           of all SOEs have provided quarterly reports to MOF for
     guidelines issued by MOF, for quarters ending       quarters in question.
     December 31, 2002 and March 30, 2003.
  B. As of March 30, 2003, total number of SOEs is no In January 2003, the total number of SOEs was 149 (of
     greater than the total number as of March 30,       which 30 are100 % centrally controlled, 11 joint ventures
     2002.                                               and 99 provincial). The current figure is 147 at the
                                                         completion of the ICR with 49 at the central level and 98 at
                                                         the provincial level. There was no available information
                                                         for 2002.
  C. The number of business units in the BPKP has beenBPKP implemented a series of measures in 2002 and 2003,
     reduced no greater than 9 through liquidation,      reducing the number of activities from 58 to 9, and also
     merger and/or consolidation by March 30, 2003.      including lowering the size of the labor force and changing
                                                         management. A detailed time-bound restructuring plan
                                                         which was adopted by the Prime Minister's Notice No.
                                                         059/CPMO dated January 15, 2004 and the accompanying
                                                         Implementing Guidelines issued to relevant agencies on
                                                         April 29, 2004 by the Minister in the Prime Minister's
                                                         Office in charge of SOE restructuring. The adopted
                                                         restructuring plan envisaged continuation of two core
                                                         activities (wood and wood processing and construction).
                                                         Most of the non-core activities are for sale or liquidation
                                                         (these include the sale of one hotel, two ships, and the
                                                         tourist centre separated from BPKP). The plan also
                                                         contains specific actions for financial and operational
                                                         restructuring of the two core business lines and annual
                                                         monitoring of their performance.
  D. Domestic tariffs for Lao Aviation are the higher of The government has revised and published new tariff
     $0.20/seat/kilometer or the tariff required to      structures for Lao Aviation (in addition to potable water
     achieve full recovery of all operating, maintenance supply, telecommunication sector) in 2002 and in 2003,
     and depreciation costs.                             following time-bound action plans in an effort to move
                                                         tariffs closer to cost-recovery levels. The government has
                                                         adopted the decision to convert Lao Aviation into a joint
                                                         venture airline (Negotiations for a partner airline in
                                                         progress) and explicit tariff policies with respect to the new



                                                        - 26 -

                                                         Lao Airlines that will be based on cost recovery
                                                         commercial principles.


III. Financial Sector Performance Indicators
    A. The level of NPLs in state-owned commercial           Instruction No. 03/BOL dated March 14, 2002 restricts
    banks must be kept below the level as of December        SCBs to grow their risk portfolio if flow NPL ratio exceeds
    31, 2001:                                                15% and reduce the branch approval limit.
    1. BCEL ­ below 23%;                                     1. BCEL should have reported its flow NPL ratio as of
                                                             December 31, 2001 at 30% instead of 23% if BOL 98 was
                                                             properly enforced. The levels of its flow NPLs, reported
                                                             by BOL, were 50% at the end of 2002 and 58% at the end
                                                             of 2003, significantly higher than the end-2001 level. Its
                                                             NPL ratio net of triangle bonds. (20) The Ministry of
                                                             Finance (MOF) has issued series of triangle bonds to settle NPLs
                                                             with SCBs of government contractors, which became NPLs
                                                             because the government has not timely paid its private
                                                             contractors. was 52% at the end of 2003. IAS audits
                                                             reported substantial increase in BCEL's NPL ratios from

        2. Lane Xang Bank (LXB) ­ below 30%; and             42% in 2001 to 61% in 2003. The majority of an increase

    3. Lao May Bank (LMB) ­ below 73%.                       in its flow NPLs can be attributed to non-commercial

       (Loans signed after Jan 1, 2000. NPL classified       activities originated during 2002. It was not until early

       per Regulation BOL No. 8.)                            2003 when key actions required under various
                                                             international financial institutions' programs took place
                                                             and were enforced.
                                                             2. Two smaller banks, LXB and LMB, were completely
                                                             merged into Lao Development Bank (LDB) in the first
                                                             quarter of 2003. The level of NPLs in LDB reported by
                                                             BOL was 43% at the end of 2003, slightly lower than the
                                                             level of combined LXB-LMB flow NPLs at the end of
                                                             2001 at 55%, mainly due to significant loan write-off and
                                                             the settlement of NPLs by triangle bonds. If triangle
                                                             bonds and loan write-off were included, LDB's flow NPL
                                                             ratio would have been 64% at the end of 2003, higher than
                                                             the end-2001 level. The IAS audit reports showed a slight
                                                             increase in LDB's NPL ratios from 53% in 2001 to 57% in
                                                             2003 (or 61% in 2003 if triangle bonds and write-off were
                                                             included).
                                                             In 2003, the BOL issued several instruction letters
                                                             directing both state banks whose net flow NPLs exceeded
                                                             15% to restrict the growth of their net new credits in
                                                             accordance with instruction 03/BOL. The intervention by
                                                             BOL intended to prevent further deterioration of assets of
                                                             two state banks and resulted in 4% decline in the
                                                             aggregate amount of flow loans at SCBs in 2003.
 B. No new non-commercial loans, defined as loans made Notice No. 158/AMD dated July 3, 2001 restricts SCBs
     (i) without ensuring that the borrower's cashflow is   to make a policy lending operation and focus on loan
     sufficient to repay; (ii) pricing at below market      recovery.
     interest rate; or (iii) by-passing recently improved   Non-commercial activities originated by SCBs appear to
     credit procedures.                                     have slowed down in 2003 following the BOL's
                                                            intervention to restrict SCBs whose NPLs exceeded 15%
                                                            to grow their risk portfolio and the certification by
                                                            international bank advisors (IBAs) on the approval of
                                                            large credits. However, during 2002 and 2003, the audit



                                                         - 27 -

                                                                reports showed that SCBs continued to grant new
                                                                non-commercial loans and letters of credit to borrowers,
                                                                including non-performing borrowers, which do not
                                                                appear to have sufficient cash flow to repay their
                                                                obligations. The BOL reports showed no instances of
                                                                below market pricing in the loan contracts. The BOL
                                                                reports on SCBs' autonomy showed no by-passing
                                                                recently improved credit procedures. However on
                                                                several occasions there are cases of lending in excess of
                                                                the prudential concentration limits, but with BOL
                                                                approval. The audit reports also documented instances
                                                                of lending by branches in excess of their approval
                                                                authority, non-adherence to the international bank
                                                                advisor's (IBA) recommendations, which have brought
                                                                in negative results, and non-adherence to terms and
                                                                decisions made by the credit committee.
C. Kip 100 billion equivalent of SCBs' NPLs will be             The Economic Collection Committee (ECC), which was
     resolved.                                                  in charge of tracking NPL resolution, reported Kip 108
                                                                billion in cash collection (principal repayments), sale of
                                                                collateral of 23 loans totaling Kip 2 billion, and fifty
                                                                accounts fully paid off of Kip 57 billion as of the end of
                                                                2002. Both BCEL and LDB documented at least ten
                                                                NPL accounts fully paid off (second tranche release
                                                                condition).
(20): MOF has issued a series of bonds to settle NPLs with SCBs of government contractors, which became NPLs
because the government has not timely paid its private contractors.




                                                            - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                                                 Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
       Project Cost by Component                  Estimate   Estimate      Appraisal

                    IDA                             17.0       17.0          100.0

            Total Project Costs                     17.0       17.0          100.0

Note: Figures are amounts financed by IDA credit.




                                                  - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Dec 1999                  2    1 FINANCIAL SECTOR               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST, 1 CONSULTANT

              Mar 2001                  2    1 FINANCIAL SECTOR               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST, 1 FINANCIAL
                                             SECTOR MANAGER
              Nov-Dec 2001              6    3 ECONOMISTS, 1                  S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALISTS, 2 PRIVATE
                                             SECTOR SPECIALISTS

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              April 2002                8    3 ECONOMISTS, 1 PULIC            S               S
                                             SECTOR SPECIALIST, 1
                                             FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST, 1 LEGAL
                                             COUNSEL, 2 PRIVATE
                                             SECTOR SPECIALISTS

 Supervision
              Sep 2002                  4    1TTL, 1 FINANCIAL                S               S
                                             SECTOR SPECIALIST, 2
                                             PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             SPECIALISTS
              Feb 2003                  8    1 TTL; 1 PUBLIC EXP. MGT; 2      S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALISTS; 2 SOE
                                             SPECIALISTS; (2)
                                             ECONOMISTS
              May 2003                  3    1 TTL; 2 ECONOMISTS              S               S
              Oct 2003                  4    1 TTL; 1 PUBLIC EXP. MGT; 1      S               S
                                             FINANCIAL REFORM; 1 SOE
                                             REFORM
              Jan 2004                  2    1 TTL; 1 LEGAL COUNSEL           S               S
              May 2004                  3    1 TTL; 2 ECONOMISTS              S               S

 ICR
                                        1     1 ECONOMIST                     S               S




                                              - 31 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                              Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            No. Staff weeks                      US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                        139.5                               613.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                              54.7                               246.1
  Supervision                                       133.9                               602.5
  ICR                                                17.3                                 65.0
  Total                                             345.4                             1,527.5
Note: Figures do not include Trust Funds. SAP data only show a combined figure for Identification/Preparation and
Apprisal/Negotiation.




                                                         - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 35 -

- 36 -

