Report No. PID11124
Project Name                     Lao People's Democratic Republic-Financial...
Management Adjustment Credit (FMAC)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Macro/Non-trade
Project ID                       LAPE68069
Borrower                         Government of Lao PDR
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
That Luang Road
PO Box 46
Vientiane, Lao PDR.
Environmental Category           C (Not required)
Date this PID prepared           June 14, 2002
Projected appraisal date         April-May 2002
Projected Board date             June 2002
Country and Sector Background
In the first half of the 1990s, the Lao PDR implemented its "New Economic
Mechanism" to make the transition to a market economy. In 1997, the authorities
pursued an expansionary fiscal policy with ambitious investment plans,
particularly in irrigation to achieve rice self-sufficiency despite the regional
crisis; however, this was done without appropriate financing arrangement.
Heavy borrowing from the central bank, the Bank of Lao PDR (BOL), caused a
triple-digit inflation in 1998. The kip depreciated to 7,600 kips per US dollar
in 1999 from 2,135 in 1997.
The authorities embarked on a strong stabilization program in mid-1999. The
economy responded favorably to the restraining measures addressing fiscal,
monetary and current account imbalances, and economic conditions improved
significantly. The exchange rate stabilized and inflation fell to 7.5 percent
at end 2001. Despite weaker external demand, real GDP growth was recorded at
5.7 percent in 2000 and 5.2 percent in 2001. Growth was sustained by continued
aid flows and greater business confidence induced by low inflation. In 2002,
the economy is projected to grow at 5 percent, even though the external
environment is expected to remain fragile.
The Seventh Party Congress in March 2001 emphasized economic development as the
principal mechanism for poverty reduction, and continued to favor a slow phased
approach with respect to policy implementation. With the economy now stable, a
consensus for further reforms is emerging in the Lao leadership. After a hiatus
of almost five years, the authorities requested IMF assistance and a Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (SDR 31.7 million or US $40.2 million equivalent)
was approved by the IMF Board on April 23, 2001. The performance has been
satisfactory in the first year of the PRGF arrangement, according to the first
review by IMF staff in January 2002 with the release of another $5.6 million
equivalent of the second tranche in February 2002 by the IMF Board. The
proposed FMAC has to be seen in this conducive setting.
The Proposed Credit
The proposed operation responds to an opportunity to initiate a comprehensive
restructuring of the economy to address sources of financial imbalances, in the



budget, in the SOE sector and in the banking system. Such restructuring will
also give confidence to investors that Lao PDR will be able to utilize the
substantial financial flows associated with the proposed Nam Theun 2 (NT 2)
investments (for further information on NT2, see Report No. PID6854) and the
expected increase in revenues following implementation of a rational forestry
policy.
Many of the social objectives of the government such as consumption support
programs and delivery of services are not accounted for explicitly in the budget
via taxes and subsidies. Instead, the objectives are met via SOEs by setting
artificially low prices and rationing. This weakens the incentive for running
SOEs along commercial lines. The SOEs, in turn, pass on their imbalance to the
state owned commercial banks (SCBs) in the form of non-performing loans (NPLs).
Furthermore, lack of transparency and accountability of the budget, the SOEs and
the SCBs adds to the imbalance at each stage. Every few years, this imbalance
becomes untenable and results in a macroeconomic crisis. FMAC seeks to redress
this structural flaw in the economy via selective key reforms of the budget, the
SOEs, and the SCBs. These measures will be supported by the detailed technical
assistance being provided to the government in each of these sectors.
Until early 2001, the CAS for the Lao PDR was in the low case scenario. Now
that macroeconomic stability has been restored and a PRGF with the IMF is in
place, the Bank program can move to the base case scenario. The expected
increased allocation of IDA resources will support the proposed FMAC operation.
The Lao PDR's financing requirements for 2001-03 are estimated to be $110
million by the IMF. It is expected that this financing gap will be met by the
IMF disbursements under the PRGF and support from the Bank with the proposed
operation and commitments from other donors.
Objectives and Components
The FMAC will focus on three sectors to help solidify the macroeconomic
stability achieved and strengthen the basis for further reforms. The credit
consists of three components covering the public sector, the SOE sector, and the
financial sector. (A forestry component supporting the participatory forestry
framework - which has significant budgetary implications - is also covered
within these sector categories.) This proposed operation is being closely
coordinated with the IMF and ADB.
The Public Sector. The public sector reform component aims to (i) improve
budget planning, (ii) streamline budget execution and control, (iii) make the
budget process more transparent, and (iv) better natural resource management.
The SOE Sector. The state-owned enterprises component focuses on (i)
strengthening oversight of financial and operational performance of SOEs, (ii)
restructuring of enterprises, and (iii) rationalizing the regulatory framework.
The power sector relevant issues are addressed in this component.
Financial Sector. The financial sector component will support the launching of
the Lao Financial Sector Reform which seeks to (i) stabilize the financial
condition of the state-owned commercial banks (SCBs), (ii) strengthen the SCBs
to support broad-based economic growth and (iii) enhance micro/rural finance for
poverty alleviation.
In accordance with Bank's environmental policies, this structural adjustment
operation is classified as Category C.
Financing
The financing package is as follows:
Total                                     (US$ million equivalent)
Borrower
IDA                                               17.0
-2 -



Total Project Cost                                 17.0
Contact Point:
Task Manager:
Ijaz Nabi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: 202-458-5361
For information on other project related documents, contact:
The World Bank
1818 H street, NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: 202 458-5454
Fax: 202 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be
necessarily be included in the final project.
-3 -



