Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3677 LA 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Financial Management Adjustment Credit) 
 
between  
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 19, 2002 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3677 LA 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 19, 2002, between the 
LAO PEOPLE’S 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated May 24, 2002, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s financial management (the Program), declaring 
the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance 
from the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and   
 
(B) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making a Credit in 
two tranches as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
A
RTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:  
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
"'Project' means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made"; 
 
(b) 
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
"If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full amount then due 
and payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the Association shall have 
the right to allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner and for such 
purposes under the Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall in its sole 
discretion determine"; 
 
(c) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account specified in 
Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement"; 
 
(d) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement 
and of these General Conditions"; 
 
(e) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(f) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
 Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be  agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in 
the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower 
and the Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; 
 
(g) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, as Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07; and 
 
(h) 
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
"radiogram" with the word "facsimile" and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read: 
 
(i) 
"Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail." 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
 “Agricultural Promotion Bank” means the Borrower’s state commercial 
bank established in 1993 for purposes of developing the agricultural 
sector; 
 
(b) 
“Bank of Lao PDR” means the Borrower’s central bank, organized and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 05/95/NA, dated October 
14, 1995, as amended; 
`
(c) 
“BPKP” means the Borrower’s Bolisat Phattana Khet Phoudoi, 
established in 1984 for the purpose of facilitating the social and 
economic development of Borikhamsai Province, or any successor 
thereto; 
 
(d) 
“BIO” means the Borrower’s Business Improvement Office, established 
within the Prime Minister’s Office for the purpose of providing a 
government focal point for enterprise reform in calendar year 2002, or 
any successor thereto; 
 
(e) 
“Cooperative de Credit de Soutien aux Producteurs” means the private 
microfinance project established in 1995 with the support of Societe 
d’Investissement pour le Developpement International (SIDI); 
 
(f) 
“CPC” means the Borrower’s Committee for Planning and Cooperation, 
established within the Office of the Prime Minister in 2001, or any 
successor thereto; 
 
(g) 
“DAFI” means the Borrower’s Development, Agriculture Forestry 
Industry Group, a state-owned enterprise, established in 1998 and 
engaged in forestry and other natural resource use activities; 
 
(h) 
 “Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“EDL” means Electricité du Laos, a limited liability company established 
by the Borrower in 1959 and operating pursuant to its charter, or any 
successor thereto ; 
 
(j) 
“Fiscal year” means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding to any 
of the Borrower’s fiscal  years, which period commences on October 01 
and ends on September 30 in each calendar year; 
 
(k) 
“Kip” means the currency of the Borrower; 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(l) 
“Microfinance Project” means the Borrower’s microfinance project 
established in 1997 with the support of UNDP/UNCDF; 
 
(m) 
“Lao Aviation” means the Borrower’s state-owned enterprise established 
in 1976 for the purpose of providing domestic and international air 
transport services; 
 
(n) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor 
thereto; 
 
(o) 
“Project de Developpement Decentralise de Phongsaly” means the 
Borrower’s rural development project commenced in 1997 with the 
support of  Agence Francaise de Developpement; 
 
(p) 
“Nam Papa Lao” means the state-owned enterprise established in 1962 
for the purpose of supplying the Borrower’s domestic water in Vientiane 
Municipality; 
 
(q) 
“Pharmaceutical Factory #3” means the Borrower’s state-owned 
enterprise incorporated in 1999 for the purpose of producing and 
distributing pharmaceutical products; 
 
(r) 
“SITC” means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 
3
(SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986); 
 
(s) 
“SCB” means any one of the Borrower’s state-owned commercial banks, 
and the term “SCBs” means, collectively, each of said SCB; and 
 
(t) 
“SOE” means any one of the Borrower’s state-owned enterprises, and the 
term “SOEs” means, collectively, each of said SOE. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirteen million 
five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,500,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a)  Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program.  
Page  6
-
5
-
(b)  
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a Deposit Account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the 
aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have 
reached the equivalent of  five million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 5,600,000) unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association:  (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program; (ii) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory, 
as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Association; 
and (iii) that the actions as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken.  
If,  after said exchange of views, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower 
that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after 
such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory 
to the Association, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.   
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association  shall establish. The Association  shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as 
may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of 
Page  7
-
6
-
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. 
Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. 
(a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2012, and ending January 15, 2042.      
Each installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2022, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (Bank) shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive 
Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of 
the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association notifies 
the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, 
Page  8
-
7
-
provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years 
on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. 
The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association  shall reasonably request.  
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors satisfactory to the 
Association; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
furnish to the Association  as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and  
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.  
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 4.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower shall have adopted a Regulation of the Minister of Finance on 
Public Accounting and Procedures for the implementation of the Borrower’s 
Decree No. 20/PM on the General Regulation of Public Accounting, dated 
February 18, 1993, satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(b) 
the Association shall be satisfied with the Borrower’s maintenance of  a 
sound macroeconomic framework, consistent with the objectives of the 
Program as determined on the basis of indicators agreed to by the Borrower. 
 
Section 4.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 5.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  10
-
9
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance 
 
Post Office Box No. 46 
 
Vientiane 
 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MINFINANCE 
  4369 
  856-21-412142
 
VIENTIANE  
 
MOF 
LS 
 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Vientiane, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
By: 
 
/s/ Soukanh 
Mahalath 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
 
/s/ 
Ian C. Porter 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the International Development 
Association (Association), International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank 
shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.  3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group 
Subgroup
Description of Items
112              - 
 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121              - 
 
 
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122              - 
 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
 
525              - 
 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
 
667 
        - 
        
 
Pearls, precious and semi-precious 
 
stones, unworked or worked 
 
718           718.7  
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728.43           -   
 
Tobacco processing machinery   
 
897           897.3  
 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except watches and watch 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971              - 
 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;  
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party);  
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the  
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association  determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Borrower during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this 
Agreement 
 
The Borrower shall have: 
 
Public Sector Reform
1. 
completed, through CPC, an assessment, in a manner and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, of recurrent cost estimates associated with new projects in 
excess of 1 billion kip; 
 
2. 
prepared, through the Ministry of Finance, in a manner and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, a strategy for the reform of  the Department of Treasury;
 
3.  established a Procurement Monitoring Office within the Ministry of Finance, 
headed by a qualified and experienced Director and assigned with adequate staff 
and resources in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Association;
 
4.  issued, through the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry,  in a manner and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, Regulations amending the 
Implementing Regulations on National Biodiversity Conservation Areas, 
Regulation No. 0524/AF.2001 (June 7, 2001), inter alia, to clarify the definitions 
and procedures governing zoning and land use within said Conservation Areas, 
and eliminate inconsistencies in respect of protected species listings; 
 
5. adopted, through the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Implementing 
Regulations on Sustainable Forestry Management, satisfactory to the 
Association, which includes specific provisions to enable the involvement of 
local communities in production forest management; 
 
SOE Reform
6. 
issued, through MOF, Implementing Regulations to the Decree on Management 
of State-Invested Enterprises, Decree No.54/PM, dated May 9, 2002, satisfactory 
to the Association; 
 
7. 
prepared and furnished to the Association in a manner and substance satisfactory 
to the Association,  through the Ministry of Finance, an assessment of the 
financial performance of  SOEs, and under criteria consistent with technical audit 
standards satisfactory to the Association, identified non-performing SOEs 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
requiring: (i) performance improvement; (ii) strengthening of financial reporting; 
or (iii) bringing them to the point of sale or liquidation, as the case may be. 
 
8.  adopted a timebound restructuring plan, satisfactory to the Association, for 
BPKP, Nam Papa Lao, Pharmaceutical Factory No. 3, and Lao Aviation, and 
implemented all of the actions under said restructuring plan, which in accordance 
with such time-bound restructuring plan are due within seven (7) calendar days 
prior to the exchange of views under Section 2.02(d) of this Agreement; 
 
9. 
executed, through MOF, memoranda of understanding for the development and 
execution of  time-bound restructuring plans with DAFI and four loss-making 
SOEs which have outstanding, non-performing loans in excess of one billion kip,  
in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
 
10. completed the financial restructuring of EDL, in a manner and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, including the revaluation of assets, amendment of 
selected subsidiary loan agreements, and debt to equity conversions; 
 
11. adopted and published tariff policies and structures incorporating: (i) cost 
recovery principles; and (ii) directed and transparent subsidies, if any, for the 
potable water supply, telecommunications sector and Lao Aviation; and adopted 
a
timebound action plan for the implementation of said tariff policies, all in a 
manner and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
 
Financial Sector Reform
12. prepared an assessment, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, that assesses the measures undertaken by the Borrower to: (i) avoid 
the deterioration of the SCBs’ risk portfolio; (ii) implement its risk 
diversification rules; and (iii) effectuate the autonomy of SCBs; 
 
13. audited, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Association,  the calendar 
year 2001 accounts of SCBs, and for the Agricultural Promotion Bank the 
calendar years 2000 balance sheet and 2001 accounts; 
 
14.  procured the professional services of at least two banking advisors, to provide 
advisory services for the management of SCBs, with qualifications and 
experience adequate to carry out their services detailed  in terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association; 
 
15. resolved an aggregate amount of 100 billion kip equivalent of SCBs non-
performing loans of at least ten  accounts, in a manner and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, through:  (i)  the liquidation of  non-viable companies; (ii)  the 
restructuring of viable companies such that their debts can be fully serviced by 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
their cashflows; (iii) the seizure and sale of assets to recover cash; or (iv) the 
exchange of the loan for cash or marketable assets;  
 
16. prepared an assessment, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, that identifies ten non-performing loan accounts undergoing 
resolution; and  
 
17. prepared, in consultation with MOF, BOL, and the relevant provincial authorities 
and microfinance entities including Cooperative de Credit de Soutien aux 
Producteurs, Microfinance Project and Project de Developpement Decentralise 
de Phongsaly, a policy statement, an assessment, and a timebound action plan to 
address the implementation of a rural and microfinance reform program, all in a 
manner and substance satisfactory to the Association.
 
