   Lao People's DemocraticRepublic-FinancialManagementAdiustment Credit
                                        {Cr. 3677-LA)
                    Releaseofthe SecondTranche-FullCompliance


                                   I.INTRODUCTION

 1.      The Financial Management Adjustment Credit (FMAC), approved inJune 2002,
provided financial assistance to support the implementation of reforms in the areas of
public sector reform, state-owned enterprises reform, andfinancial sector reform i.e. the
Program, as articulated inthe Government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP) and the
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP).         The Credit was for an amount of
SDR 13.5 million (US$ 17 million equivalent) to be disbursedintwo tranches, with the
first tranche of SDR5.6 million (US$7 millionequivalent) disbursed inJanuary 2003.

2.       The objective of the Program was to increase transparency and accountability in
budgetary management and in the management of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and
state-owned commercial banks (SCBs), to stem the accumulation of contingent liabilities
in SOEs and SCBs and move them towards commercial viability, and to strengthen
management of public expenditures inparticular, and public sector resources in general.
Given the need for sustained reforms, the LDP laid out the Government's commitment
for continuing reforms inthese areas and this was reaffirmed by the National Growth and
Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES) that was recently endorsed by the National
Assembly.

3.       The Lao People's Democratic Republic (PDR) has made satisfactory progress in
maintaining an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework (see Section 11) and in
carrying out the Program laid out in the LDP, including the completion of seventeen
specific actions, cited inschedule 2 of the DCA, for the release of the secondtranche.


              11.     MACROECONOMICPOLICY FRAMEWORK

4.      Lao PDR has made satisfactory progress in reducing inflation as well as in
sustaining economic growth and poverty reduction. Real GDP growth rate has been
robust, and inflation, after rising in the first half of 2003 has slowed significantly. The
IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) completed three reviews
successfully. The fourth review was delayed due to revenue shortfalls inthe first quarter
of 2003/04, but recent data shows that the revenue target for the first six months (Le. by
end-March 2004) was met. The IMF's `PRGF and Article IV mission is now planned for
June, with presentationto the Board expected inAugust 2004.

5.      Inflation as of April 2004, fell to 11.9 percent on a year-on-year basis, not as low
as was originally expected; non-food inflation is down to single digits. Average annual




                                               1

 inflation during the three-year period o f 2001-03 has also come down significantly,
 relative to the previous three-year period.

 6.      Real GDP grew by 5.7 and 5.5 percent in 2002 and 2003 respectively and as a
 result, poverty has come down from 39 percent in 1997/98 to 30 percent, as estimated by
 the 2002/03 household survey. Virtually all o f this reduction has taken place inthe rural
 areas where most o f the poor live. This economic growth was made possible in part by
 higher foreign direct investment inflows, good export growth and strong agricultural,
 performance.


        111.    SPECIFICACTIONSFOR SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE

 7.      The progress in carrying out the overall Program, including the specific actions
 listed in schedule 2 and referred to in section 2.02 (d) o f the DCA, has been satisfactory.
Technical assistance through the World Bank's parallel Financial Management Capacity
Building Credit (FMCBC) and quarterly monitoring at a high level within Government
made this possible. The implementation o f the program took longer than was originally
envisaged, due in large measure to capacity-limitations in the public service, but all
specific actions have beencompleted. Each o f the actions inthe D C A are cited below in
italics, andthis i s followed by the status o f implementation.

Public Sector Reform

8.       Completed through the Committee on Planning and Cooperation (CPC), an
assessment, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Association, of recurrent
cost estimatesassociatedwith newprojects in excess of 1billion kip.

9.       This action has been completed. CPC carried out the assessment of recurrent
cost estimates associated with new projects in the 2002/03 Public Investment Program
(PIP) that were in excess o f 1 billion kip. Recurrent costs were estimated for 149 new
projects inthe PIP that were in excess o f 1 billion kip. This was done by developing an
agreed methodology, preparing a training manual and doing training o f CPC and sector
staff, and then asking the trained staff to make these estimates. Further disseminationo f
this methodology and training is plannedto ensure that agency level cost centers can do
this estimation ona regularbasis duringthe PIP andbudgetingprocesses.

10.      Prepared, through the Ministry of Finance, in a manner and substance
satisfactory to the Association, a strategy for the reform of the Department of the
Treasury.

11.      This action has been completed. The Department of Treasury prepared a
strategy and an agenda for its reform program, which cover the key problems to be
addressed together with either the necessary actions for addressing them or the necessary
steps needed to develop those actions.            It builds on the Government's earlier
Memorandumto the IMF outlining an initial set o f measures, as well as measures cited in
the NGPES.        The following ten areas are covered by the strategy: the legislative


                                                2

 framework; the organizational structure o f central treasury; the management o f sub-
 treasury operations; the payments & bankingprocedures; the revenue collection system;
 cash management; debt management; the accounting system; the financial reporting and
 the information and communication technology (ICT) requirements. The Government
 expects to adopt this strategy and beginimplementation in2004, and for this purpose has
 requested technical assistance. This request comprises o f an external treasury advisor
 funded by the IMF, as well as a national consultant funded by the FMCB credit, both
 expected to support the treasury in implementing the strategy as expeditiously as
 possible.

 12.     In addition, the accounting department has revisedthe chart of accounts and the
budget nomenclature as reflected in decision No. 811/MOF, dated April 29, 2004 and
reduced drastically the number of line items. The Department has initiated training o f its
 staff with the objective o f implementing the new chart o f accounts for the formulation o f
the 2004/05 budget.

 13.     Established a Procurement Monitoring Office within the Ministry of Finance,
headed by a qualified and experienced Director and assigned with adequate staff and
resourcesin a manner and substancesatisfactory to theAssociation.

 14.     This action has been completed. The new Procurement Monitoring Office has
been established and the procurement rules and regulations have been strengthened. The
office i s headed by a qualified and experienced director and it has acquired the necessary
staff and office facilities.     The Government adopted more than a dozen o f the
recommendations o f the recent Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR)
through the revised Procurement Sub-Decree issued inDecember 2003, andthe amended
Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRRs) issued in March 2004.               This includes
revisions in areas beyond the eight that were agreed during negotiations: thresholds o f
procurement methods, thresholds o f approval procedures, conditions for direct
negotiations, advertising o f opportunities, outlawing o f gratuities & inducements,
reestablishing o f bidders' qualifications, dispute resolution, and the authority for signing
contracts. In addition major improvements in the clarity and specificity o f language has
also beenimplemented inthe revisedprocurement rules.

15.     Issued, through the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF),in a manner
and substancesatisfactory to theAssociation,Regulations amending theImplementing
Regulations on National Biodiversity Conservation Areas (IVBCAs), regulation no.
0524/AF.2001 (June 7, 2001), inter alia, to clarify the definitions and procedures
governing zoning and land use within said Conservation Areas, and eliminate
inconsistenciesin respect of protected species listings.

16.     This action has been completed. The new Regulation 380 issued by MAF in
December 2003 (amending Regulation 524 of June 2001) has clarified land use and
removed inconsistencies inthe protected species classifications, bringingLao PDR closer
to the International Union for the Protection o f Nature (IUCN) guidelines. For example,
NBCAs have been more finely categorized into four types, rather than the two that



                                              3

 existed before. Similarly there have been simplification and clarification on wildlife
 management, clearly distinguishing between strictly protected species and those that are
 for managed use, forbidding possession o f protectedrestricted species except for clearly
 defined purposes;    providing clear mandates with respect to transport, hunting and
 captive breedingo f wildlife; and banningthe use of dangerous huntingmethods. Further
 improvements inframework and inenforcement will continue to be implemented.

 17.     Adopted, through the Ministry of          Agriculture and Forestry (MAF),
 Implementing Regulations on Sustainable Forestry Management, satisfactory to the
 Association, which includes specijic provisions to enable the involvement of local
 communitiesinproductionforest management.

 18.     This action has been completed. The new Implementing Regulations were
 issued by MAF in October 2003 with provisions supporting many important elements o f
 a participatory approach to production forest management, including provisions for
 substantial benefit sharing with local communities, market-orientation in timber sales,
 adherence to forest management plan, harvest prescriptions and utilization o f revenues,
 to support local level forest management technical units. It i s thus expected to promote
 the involvement o f local communities inproduction forest management. and Government
 i s well advanced toward the formal declaration o f the first eight National Production
 Forest Areas under the Regulation, laying the basis for disciplined and accountable
 management on at least 500,000 hectares o f forest land.

 SOEReform

 19.     Issued, through MOF, Implementing Regulations to the Decree on
Management of State-Invested Enterprises, Decree No. 5 4 P M dated May 9, 2002
satisfactory to theAssociation.

 20.     This Action has been completed.           The Government issued satisfactory
 Implementing Regulations for Decree 54 in December 2002 which, inter alia provided
 details on financial reporting requirements for the SOEs.          These regulations are
prerequisites to collecting and evaluating the financial and operational data on SOE
performance, and once collected such data can be used for classification o f all SOEs on
the basis o f agreed performance criteria. Technical assistance was provided under the
Bank's FMCB Credit, to the officials inthe central andprovincial state assetmanagement
bureaus o f MOF and the directors o f all SOEs, so that they understand not only the
requirements and the implications o f these Regulations for their reporting but also the
need to record information on performance properly.

21.     Prepared and furnished to the Association in a manner and substance
satisfactory to the Association, through the Ministry of Finance, an assessment of the
financial performance of SOEs and, under criteria consistent with technical audit
standards satisfactory to the Association, identified non-performing SOEs requiring:
(i) performance improvement; (igstrengtheningof financial reporting; or (iii) bringing
them to thepoint of sale or liquidation, as the case may be.



                                            4

22.     This Action has been completed. The Ministry of Finance, through their letter
number267, dated 8 January 2004, identified nearly a quarter ofthe number of SOEs (24
provincial, and 7 central SOEs), as making large losses and thus requiring sale or
liquidation.    This was based on a classification using an assessment of financial
performance o f SOEs. The set o f agreedtechnical criteria to assess performance, covered
profitability, solvency, liquidity, debt management and operational activity as well as
management capacity, industry experience and viability o f business plan. All 140 SOEs
were classifiedusingthis criteriaandthe proposed actions as follows:


        0   o f 43 centrally managed SOEs, 7 were performing well and had good
            financial reporting, 4 neededperformance improvements, and 25 needed both
            performance improvements and strengthening o f financial reporting.

            o f 97 provincially managed SOEs classified, 7 were performing well and had
            good financial reporting, 2 required only strengtheningo f financial reporting,
            and 64 needed both performance improvements and strengthening financial
            reporting.

23.     Adopted a time-bound restructuringplan, satisfactory to the Association, for
BPKP, Nam Papa Lao, Pharmaceutical Factory No. 3, and Lao Aviation, and
implemented all of the actions under the said restructuringplan, which in accordance
with such time-bound restructuringplan are due within seven (7) calendar daysprior
to the exchange of views under Section 2.02 (4 of theDCA.

24.     This Action has been completed. Time-bound restructuring plans have been
adopted for each o f the above mentioned four SOEs and an initial set o f actions
consistent with the restructuring plan have been implemented. The initial set o f actions
include changes in management, reduction in labor force, reductions in number o f non-
core activities, re-organization to improve control and so on.        The adoption o f the
restructuring plans i s evident in the Prime Minister's (PM's) Notice No. 059KPMO
dated 15 January 2004 and inthe accompanying Implementing Guidelines for each o f the
four SOEs issued to relevant agencies on April 29 2004 by the Minister in the Prime
Minister's office in charge o f SOE restructuring. The PM's Notice highlights the key
elements o f the plans and the broad scope o f restructuring that i s directed to be carried
out, while the Implementing Guidelines provide details on the processes, restructuring
actions and the monitoring requirements, including a clear timeline for actions in 2004
andin2005.

25.     Lao Aviation.      Following changes in management and some financial
restructuring, the Government conducted an in-depth analysis o f the financial and
operational situation, including tariffs, to develop restructuring options. These options
were subjected to extensive stakeholder consultations, after which the Government
decided to convert Lao Aviation into a joint-venture entity with a strategic foreign
partner, with Lao nationals owning 51 percent, but Government becoming a minority
shareholder. This will be done by issuing new shares and diluting the Government's



                                             5

holdings. In addition, the adopted plan also sets out the processes, the need o f an
external advisor to assist the Government inthis transaction, and the decision to use cost-
recovery or commercial tariffs except on routes that maybe subsidized by the
Government for social reasons.

26.     Bolisat Phattana Khet Phoudoi (BPKP). Several measures like reducing the
number of activities from 58 to 9, lowering the size of the labour force and changing
management were implemented during this period. The adopted restructuring plan
envisages continuation o f two core activities - wood and wood processing, as well as
construction- while hiving off the non-core activities from BPKP. Most o f the non-core
activities are proposed for sale or liquidation, with the exception o f the tourism centre,
which will be sold as an ongoing business. The plan also specify actions for financial
and operational restructuring of the two core business lines, as well as annual monitoring
o f performance o f these core-activities to ensure that they are runina viable manner.

27.     Nam Papa Laos. A detailed time-bound restructuring plan has been elaborated
and several restructuring measures like water tariff increases, various cost reduction
measures and changes in management, have been implemented. The plan sets out the
main directions for restructuring, including financial restructuring with debt-equity
conversion and asset revaluation, various cost reduction measures, and better handing o f
material purchases and production, as well as improved accounts receivables
management andmonitoring o f overall performance.

28.     Pharmaceutical Factory 3 (PF3).             Following implementation o f several
restructuring measures, a detailed time-bound restructuring plan has been adopted. Key
measures in this plan include setting-up strict internal and credit control mechanisms,
financial restructuring to enable the debt servicing o f existing loans, re-focusing o f
product-lines along commercial lines and exploration o fjoint venture arrangement with a
regional pharmaceutical manufacturer to strengthen management capabilities and
introduce new technologies.        Annual monitoring o f progress in restructuring and in
profitability are also part o fthe plan.

29.     Executed, through MOF, memoranda of understandingfor the development
and execution of time-bound restructuring plans with Development Agriculture
Forestry Industry Group( DAFI) andfour loss-making SOEs which have outstanding,
non-performing loans in excess of one billion kip, in a manner and substance
satisfactory to theAssociation.

30.     This Action has been Completed. On January 15, 2004 the Memoranda o f
Understanding (MOU) for the following 5 SOEs - DAFI; Agriculture Industry
Development ImportIExport Enterprise; Lao State Fuel Company; Societe Lao Import-
Export; and Road Bridge Construction Company No.13 -- were signed by the Business
Promotion Office (BPO), the relevant Ministry and the relevant SOE. The Implementing
Regulation issued on April 29, 2004 asks the BPO to initiate the development o f time-
bound restructuring plans and then to implement them, and in developing those plans, to
explore all restructuring options that maybe necessary to make these SOEs commercially



                                              6

 viable. These MOUs are based on an initial assessment o f financial and operational
 information o f these SOE, andrequire that the adoption o f these time-bound restructuring
 plansbe completed as soon as possible.

 31.     Completed the financial restructuring of EdL, in a manner and substance
 satisfactory to the Association, including the revaluation of assets, amendment of
 selected subsidiary loan agreements, and debt to equity conversions.

 32.     This action has been completed. Financialrestructuring o f EdLhas been carried
 out; it has revalued assets, amended selected subsidiary loan agreements and completed
 debt to equity conversions.

 33.
 recovery principles; and (ii) directed and transparent subsidies, if any, for potable
         Adopted and publkhed tariff policies and structures incorporating (i) cost

 water supply, telecommunicationssector and Lao Aviation; and adopted a time-bound
 action plan for implementation of said tariff policies, all in a manner and substance
satisfactory to theAssociation.

34.      This action has been completed. The Government has revised and published
new tariff structures in respect o f potable water supply, telecommunications sector and
Lao aviation in2002 and again in2003, following time-bound action plans, inan effort to
move tariffs closer to cost-recovery levels. The Government has also adopted explicit
tariffpolicies, as evident inthe PrimeMinister's Noticesapproving the recommendations
o f the Ministry o f Construction, Transport, Post and Communication (MCTPC), in
respect o fpotable water supply, telecommunications sector and Lao Aviation, articulating
the key principles that will guide tariff policy and tariff changes in future. This includes
definition o f cost, and cost recovery, triggers and timing for changing tariffs and
restrictive conditions when directed and transparent subsidies would be acceptable. On
telecommunications and water these principles are detailed for different types o f services
as well as for the same service indifferent locations; on Lao aviation, with the proposed
shift to minority Government shareholding, tariffs are to be formulated on a cost-
recovery and commercial basis as in the annual business plan, with a few possible
exceptions that would have to be supported by the Government.

35.     Prepared an Assessment, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the
Association, that assesses the measures undertaken by the Borrower to :(i) avoid the
deterioration of the SCBs' risk portfolio; (ii) implement its risk diversification rules;
and (iii) effectuate the autonomy of SCBs.

36.      The action has been completed. The Bank o f Lao PDR (BOL) has provided
their summary assessment for each o fthe two SCBs (Lao Development Bank or LDB and
BCEL), as well as quarterly reports through the FMAC implementationperiod, inrespect
o f quality o f risk portfolio, risk diversification and concentration, and the autonomy o f
banks. These assessments and quarterly reports present a mixedpicture showing varying
degrees of progress in these three areas.         There was portfolio-quality deterioration
through 2002, but improvements are evident during 2003.             Tighter controls on new



                                                7

 lending and the introduction of certification by the International Banking Advisors
 (IBAs)reduced total lending, but improved the quality of the portfolio. The BOL issued
 notifications to the banks to restrict lending when incremental or flow NPLs exceeded a
 threshold; though some o f these enforcement letters were issued late, the SCBs restrained
 their lending successfully duringthis period; the banks were thus incompliance with this
 "restricted lendingregime" for more thanthree-quarters o f the time. There were also few
 "directed" or "policy" loans, suggesting that banks were deciding, with the help o f IBAs,
 more autonomously and on a more commercial basis. Reductions in risk concentration
 were however more difficult to achieve, and remains a weakness, given that a large
 portion o f the NPLs in the largest SCB are accounted for by a few           large private
 contractors who hadnot beenpaid by the Government for their work.

 37.     Audit, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Association, the calendar
year 2001 accounts for SCBs, and for the Agricultural Promotion Bank (APB) the
 calendaryears 2000 balance sheet and 2001 accounts.

 38.     The action has been completed. The financial statement audits, compliance
reviews and diagnostic reviews for the SCBs for years 2001 and 2002, and for APB for
2000 balance sheet and 2001 accounts have been completed according to international
accounting and auditing standards by the international auditors. The audit reports on
these banks were reviewed and found to be consistent with the agreed terms of reference
and the purposes o fthe audits.

39.      Procurement of the professional services of at least two banking advisors, to
provide advisory services for the management of SCB3, with qualifications and
experience adequate to carry out their services detailed in terms of reference
satisfactory to theAssociation.

40.      The action has been completed. The four international bankingadvisors (IBAs)
with satisfactory qualifications and experience initiated work inthe first quarter of 2003,
in line with the agreed terms of reference.         This involved comments on new credit
transactions, reviews o f bank-wide issues and credit risk reviews o f a statistically
significant sample o fthe total portfolio o f these banks.

41.      Resolution of an aggregate amount of Kip 100 billion equivalent of SCBs non-
performing loans (IvPLs) of at least ten accounts, in a manner and substance
satisfactory to the Association, through, (9 the liquidation of non-viable companies;
(ii) the restructuring of viable companiessuch that their debts can befully serviced by
their cash-flows; (iii) the seizure and sale of assets to recover cash; or (iv) the
exchangeof the loanfor cash or marketable assets.

42.      The action has been completed. An aggregate amount o f SCB's non-performing
loans in excess o f Kip 100 billion has been resolved, involving more than ten accounts,
with a large number o f accounts fully paid off.         Most o f the resolutions of NPLs
comprised o f cash collections andrecoverythrough sale o f collateral.




                                               8

43.     Preparation of an assessment, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the
Association, that identifiesten non-performing loan accounts undergoingresolution.

44.     The action has been completed. Each SCB has prepared an assessment o f their
non-performing loan accounts undergoing resolution: Lao Development Bank (LDB)
formed from merger o f two banks, provided such an assessment for their top 17 NPL
accounts while BCEL did so, for their top 20 NPL accounts.

45.     Preparation of, in consultation with MOF, BOL, and the relevant provincial
authorities and micro-finance entities including Cooperativede Credit de Soutien aux
Producteurs, Microfnance Project and Projet de Developement Decentralise de
Phongsaly, apolicy statement, an assessment, and a time-bound actionplan to address
the implementation of a rural and micro-finance reform program, all in a manner and
substancesatisfactory to theAssociation.

46.     The action has been completed. The policy statement, the assessment and the
time-bound action plan, aimed at addressing the implementation o f a rural and micro-
finance reform program, was prepared by the Lao authorities through a consultative
process and was approved through the Prime Minister's Notice 1760/CPMO.S dated 17
December 2003. In the preparation processes, the Rural and Micro Finance Committee
conducted extensive consultations with relevant stakeholders including high-ranking
officials (at both central and local level), concerned Ministries, Ministry-equivalent
agencies, microfinance practitioners, and international agencies involved in rural and
micro-finance. The policy statement recommends a commercial basis for the operation o f
rural and micro-finance inLao PDR.



                                   IV.    CONCLUSION

47.     In view of Lao's satisfactory overall performance and progress in the
implementation o f the Program supported by the Credit, the Association has advised the
Borrower o fthe availability o fthe secondtranche o f SDR 7.9 million for disbursement.




                                            9

