Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4046-PAK 
 
Program Agreement 
 
(Second Punjab Education Development Policy Credit) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB 
 
Dated July 16, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4046-PAK 
 
PROGRAM AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 16, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and PROVINCE OF PUNJAB 
acting by its Governor (Punjab). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Islamic Republic of 
Pakistan (the Borrower) a letter dated February 18, 2005,
 
transmitting to the Association 
a
letter from Punjab dated January 25, 2005, describing a program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring Punjab’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program and the Borrower’s support thereto, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
 
(B) 
Punjab has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
the Schedule to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained 
a
macroeconomic policy framework consistent with the Borrower’s macroeconomic 
framework satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(C) 
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-five million eight hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR65,800,000) on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Punjab agrees to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(D) 
the Program will be carried out by Punjab with the Borrower’s assistance 
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Punjab the local 
currency equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit 
Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS Punjab, in consideration of the Association entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
Definition 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Program 
 
Section 2.01. (a) Punjab declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Program and, to this end, shall carry out the Program with due diligence and efficiency, 
and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Program. 
 
(b) 
Punjab shall make available to each District Government its duly 
allocated share of the proceeds of the Credit on a non-reimbursable basis in a timely 
manner.  
 
Section 2.02. (a) Punjab shall from time to time, at the request of the Association, 
and with the participation of the Borrower, exchange views with the Association with 
regard to the progress of the Program, the actions specified in the Schedule to this 
Agreement, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, Punjab shall furnish to the 
Association and the Borrower for their review and comments a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request. 
 
(c) 
Punjab shall promptly inform the Association and the Borrower of any 
condition, which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Program, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Punjab of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Section, Punjab shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to 
be taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.03. (a) For the purpose of assisting in the implementation and 
monitoring of the Program, Punjab shall maintain the PMIU in a form and with powers, 
functions, structures, staff and resources satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(b) 
Subject to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this Agreement, Punjab shall, 
through PMIU, acting in coordination with all agencies implementing the Program, 
produce quarterly progress reports on: (i) the achievement of fiscal and financial 
management targets; and (ii) the implementation of specific measures agreed under the 
medium-term reform program
,
and including data on outcomes from surveys and other 
sources when available. 
 
Section 2.04. Punjab shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, including the impact of implementation of the Program on the poor; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Program 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, within forty-five (45) days of the receipt of the report and thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient implementation of the Program and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) Punjab shall use the amounts transferred to it by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 2.02(c) of the Development Credit Agreement in support of the 
Program. Punjab undertakes that no proceeds of any such amounts shall be used to 
finance expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of Punjab during the 
procurement or execution of such contract, unless and until Punjab shall have taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any such 
amount shall have been used to make a payment for any expenditure not consistent with 
paragraph (a) above, Punjab shall, promptly upon request from the Association, refund 
such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. Punjab shall:  
 
(a) 
within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the Rupee amount transferred to 
it by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02(c) of the Development Credit Agreement, 
confirm to the Association the amount so transferred and the date on which it was 
credited to the Consolidated Fund Account; and 
 
(b) within 
forty-
five (45) days of the Association’s request, furnish to the 
Association a certificate of independent auditors acceptable to the Association confirming 
said Rupee amount and date. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Punjab thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii) 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify Punjab of this event. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI)    
 
 
 
For Punjab: 
 
Planning and Development Board  
 
Government of Punjab  
 
Lahore, 
Pakistan 
     
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
92-42-9210110 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Punjab may be 
taken or executed by the Chairman, Planning and Development Board, Government of 
Punjab, or such other person or persons as Punjab shall designate in writing, and Punjab 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ John Wall 
Country Director 
 Pakistan 
 
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB 
 
By /s/ Javed Islam 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE  
 
Actions Referred to in  Recital (B) of the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and in Recital (B) of the Preamble to the Program Agreement 
 
Improving Public Sector Financing
1. 
An education budget has been approved for Fiscal Year 2004-2005 consistent 
with the medium-term budget framework showing at least a fifteen percent (15%) 
increase. 
 
Support for Devolution and Public Sector Management Reforms
2. 
The non-salary recurrent budget for education of fifty percent (50%) of the 
District Governments has been increased.  
 
3. 
For FY 2004-2005, TOP Agreements have been signed with at least 20 District 
Governments, setting out agreed annual performance targets, and PESRP funds for those 
Districts have been transferred to Account No. 4. 
 
4. 
Fortnightly DAC meetings have been initiated to review and settle all arising 
audit observations (paras) on the Consolidated Fund Account, and to progressively clear 
backlogs. 
 
5. 
An independent ex-post procurement review on a sample basis has been 
commissioned.  
 
Improving Quality, Access and Governance in the Education Sector
6. 
At least 13,000 additional teachers have been recruited under site-specific 
contracts. 
 
7. 
Independent third party surveys have been commissioned to assess availability of 
stipends and free text-books at the school level. 
 
8. 
With a view to initiating an impact evaluation of girls’ stipend program, a school 
census has been conducted and validated to document post-PESRP girls’ middle-school 
enrolment. 
 
9. 
The ED’s Directorate of Staff Development has been reorganized for delivery of 
teacher professional development programs. 
 
10. 
Textbook printing and publishing has been opened to competition, beginning 
with the primer. 
Page  9
-
8
-
11. 
A notification has been issued for the establishment of the PEF Board. 
 
