Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1302 
Operation Name 
Second Punjab Education Development Policy Credit 
 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
 
Sector 
General education sector (100%) 
 
Project ID 
P090346 
 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN 
 
Implementing Agency 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
GOVERNMENT OF PUNJAB 
CIVIL SECRETARIAT, LAHORE 
Tel: 92-42-9210039 
Fax: 92-42-9210042 
 
Date PID Prepared 
July 20, 2004 
 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
 
December 14, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
March 15, 2005 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The proposed Second Punjab Education Development Policy Credit (PEDPC) will provide financing 
for Pakistan’s Province of Punjab, which is implementing a wide-ranging reform agenda to improve 
fiscal management, promote devolution and improve service delivery starting with education. The 
proposed credit would be the second of a series of three credits to support the Government of 
Punjab’s medium-term (FY04-FY06) sector-wide reform program to enhance access and quality of 
education.  The first credit Punjab Education Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC) was approved in 
February 2004.  These three credits form the first part of a five to ten year program of World Bank 
support to help Punjab attain the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
 
Punjab has reallocated public expenditures towards education and other pro-poor programs, and is 
implementing national initiatives on decentralization and the accompanying public finance and 
management reforms, using the education sector as the leading sector.  The Government has 
developed a Punjab Education Sector Reform Program (PESRP) Strategy that is being implemented 
over a three-year period.  The first two areas of the reforms (public finance, and strengthening 
devolution and governance) are also supported by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) under the 
Punjab Resource Management Program (PRMP).  The Punjab Government has also developed a 
Provincial strategy which focuses on growth and poverty reduction and is parallel to the Federal 
PRSP.  Among other things, this strategy  supports the devolution of decision- making and finances to 
districts and provides the impetus for public finance and management reforms.  These reforms are 
being undertaken concurrently.  As earlier experience in Pakistan shows, education sector reforms 
cannot be successful without reforms in public finance management and governance.   
 
Page  2
2. 
Proposed objective(s)
 
The purpose of this development policy credit is to support the Punjab Government’s education 
reform program for the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) in elementary 
education.  Punjab is Pakistan’s largest province with 56% of the population. By starting with 
Pakistan’s largest province, the project targets a major part of the challenge to meeting MDGs in the 
country. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description: 
The Credit supports PESRP’s three pillars:  (A) 
public finance reforms 
that are realigning 
(increasing) public spending towards education (and other pro-poor services) and ensuring fiscal 
sustainability; (B) 
reforms that
 are 
strengthening devolution and improving fiduciary 
environment and governance
;
and (C) 
education sector reforms
 that are improving quality, access, 
sector governance, and public private partnerships.  The credit would be the second of a series of 
three development policy credits to support the Government of Punjab’s medium-term sector-wide 
reform program to enhance access and quality of education, building upon the achievements of the 
first year reform program.   
There has been steady progress during the first year of the program (FY 04) that was supported by the 
first Credit.  Free textbooks were delivered on time to over eight million primary school students for 
the first time in Punjab.  A stipends programs targeting girls in Government middle schools in fifteen 
low literacy districts has been successfully launched, and has already shown improvements in 
attendance and increases in enrollment in government schools.  The program for providing missing 
infrastructure commenced upon signature of Terms of Partnership agreements with district 
governments that were signed by the end of the second quarter of FY04, and has shown steady 
progress during the year.  Capacity building program for School Councils is being launched in six 
pilot districts. Capacity building of district governments has been fully financed for the year.  An 
extensive monitoring system has been established by the Punjab Government to oversee progress of 
the program.  A province wide education awareness campaign was successfully launched.  As a clear 
demonstration of its continued commitment, the Punjab Government has fully financed the FY05 
program, and increased education sector budget in accordance with Punjab’s Medium-Term Budget 
Framework (MTBF) and the agreements with the Bank.   
These and other inputs, including free education, have shown early signs of increases in enrolments in 
government primary and middle schools.  In parallel, support to low cost private education will be 
provided through the restructured and autonomous Punjab Education Foundation, and further ways to 
enhance private sector participation will be explored in the upcoming year of reform. The 
Government is well advanced in initiating independent third party surveys and evaluations to 
determine the impact of the program. The results of these studies are expected to help inform the 
Punjab Government’s strategy to expand initiatives and to strengthen the reform program.     
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
Safeguard Classification S
3
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 700 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
100 
 Total 
800 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: (a) Tahseen Sayed, Title: Sr. Education Spec., Tel: 5722+166, Fax: 92-51-2822396; Email: 
TSayed@worldbank.org
,
Location: Islamabad, Pakistan (IBRD); (b) Qaiser M. Khan, Title: Lead Human 
Development Specialist, Dhaka, Bangladesh, Tel: 5764+4346;  Email: 
qkhan@worldbank.org
Page  3
7.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
