                                                                                                            94617
                                                                                                      September 29, 2009



                                                                 Links:
                                                                 - What is IDA?
                                                                 - Our Work in Pakistan


                                                                 More on Pakistan:
                                                                 - Borrowing History
                                                                 - Data & Statistics
                                                                 - Research
                                                                 - Contact Us




Punjab is Pakistan’s largest province with a population of 100 million, which embodies 60
percent of the country's total population. Punjab has long contributed the most to Pakistan’s
national economy; it is the most industrialized province and, because of widespread irrigation,
features diverse agricultural productivity. However, in the country’s efforts to alleviate poverty,
low educational attainment had long been a stumbling block. As recently as 2001, primary school
enrollment was only 45 percent, where efforts to improve access and quality were yielding little
fruit.




The IDA-financed Punjab Education Sector Reform Program was launched in 2003 with the
objective of improving access, quality, and governance in the education sector. This program
included supply-side interventions such as upgrading schools and filling teacher vacancies, as
well as demand-side measures such as stipends for girls, provision of free textbooks, and
subsidies to low-fee private schools. In parallel, a number of reforms in teachers’ recruitment
and professional development, textbook production, and the examination system were
implemented.




Net enrollment in primary schools in Punjab has increased from 45 to 62 percent between
2001 and 2007. Female primary net enrollment during the same period increased from 43
to 59 percent and for rural females from 38 to 55 percent.


Highlights:
- Primary enrollment and completion increased. Primary school enrollment increased by
about 40 percent — from 45 percent in 2002 to 62 percent in 2007. Primary completion rate in
public schools increased from 58 percent to 61 percent.


- Bricks, mortar, and books made schools better. One thousand previously closed schools
have been made functional. Toilets, boundary walls, and additional classrooms have been
provided to over 30,000 schools; 28.6 million free textbooks have been distributed to students in
grades 1-10 in academic year 2008/09. Competitive textbook printing, publishing, and authorship
have been instituted in the province resulting in improved quality of textbook production.
- Teacher hiring, training, and performance enhanced. An additional 50,000 schoolteachers
were hired and posted to schools; recruitment of an additional 34,000 teachers based on merit
and need-based criteria is currently underway. Teacher absenteeism was reduced through hiring
teachers on school-specific contracts.


- Girls’ stipends worked. Over 350,000 eligible girls receive monthly stipends pegged to school
attendance.


- Partnership supported needy. Providing financial support to over 1,000 low-cost private
schools used a public-private partnership model to support students from lower-income quintiles.


- Enhanced capacity created. Community-based school councils were established in 43,000
primary schools. NGOs are providing capacity support to 2,400 school councils. Sector
governance improved through annual independent third-party validations.


- National exam standards and sector monitoring instituted. An independent Punjab
Examination Commission for universal examinations for grades 5 and 8 has been established; 3
rounds of examinations were conducted. Strong and credible monitoring system has been
established to track enrollments, sector expenditures, recruitment, and school construction.




IDA’s US$350 million Punjab Education Sector Project was launched in 2008, and is financing
about 15 percent of the provincial government’s total education budget over a three-year period.
It also contains a US$10 million component for providing technical assistance to support
implementation of the Government’s medium-term sector program. Under the earlier four IDA
credits, a total of US$400 million was provided to support education reforms from 2004 through
2007. Continuous IDA support has provided a real continuity of policy dialogue with the provincial
government. Moreover, IDA has also leveraged additional support from development partners for
the province’s education reform program. Furthermore, the monitoring systems established under
the project are being replicated in other provinces and in other sectors (such as irrigation) in the
province. IDA support has also funded a series of rigorous impact evaluations to determine best
practices for future expansion and potential adaptation in other country contexts.




With 38 percent of Punjab’s primary school-age children still out of school, low participation at
the middle and secondary levels, and low learning outcomes, Punjab is faced with a significant
unfinished agenda in education. The Punjab government has launched a second generation of
reforms that focuses on increasing access and completion rates, enhancing the quality of
reforms and student learning outcomes, and strengthening school management and sector
governance. IDA financing is tied to the achievement of concrete results. It is helping expand
sector capacity for implementation and monitoring.




Pakistan: Punjab Education Sector Reform Program
Punjab Education Sector Reform Programme
Last updated: 2009-09-29
