(i-vŽL   V4S--_,)
nocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10018-BO   Type:  (SAR)                 ReportNo. 10018-BO
ALONSO-BIA/ X38647 / LA31E/ 15121
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
MAY 19, 1992
Country Department III
Infrastructure Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribotion and may be uied by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
(As October 25, 1991)
US$1.00    =    3.70 Bolivianos (Bs.)
US$0.27    =      1.00 Boliviano
US$1.36555  =      1 SDR
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AADAA         Administraci6n Aut6noma de Almacenes Aduaneros (Autonomous Customs
Warehouse Admninistration)
CAF           Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento (Andean Development Corporation)
COMIBOL    Corporaci6n Minera de Bolivia (Bolivian Mining Corporation)
CRD           Corporacion Regional de Desarrollo (Regional Development Corporation)
DDV           Direcci6n Departamental de Vialidad (Regional Road Department)
EBM           Expenditure Budgeting Model
ECP           Export Corridors Project
ENDE          Empresa Nacional de Electricidad (National Power Company)
ENFE          Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles del Estado (National Railway Company)
ENTEL         Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (National Telecommunications Company)
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
ESF           Emergency Social Fund
EU            Environmental Unit
FY            Fiscal Year
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
HDM-III       Highway Design and Maintenance Model, 3rd Version
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
INPEX         Instituto Nacional do Promocion de Exportaciones (National Institute for Export
Promotion)
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
LIB           Limited International Bidding
MTC           Ministerio de Transporte, Counicaciones y AeronAutica Civil (Ministry of
Transport. Communications and Civil Aeronautics)
OECF          Overseas Economic Corporation Fund of Japan
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
RIC           Reconstruction Import Credit
SAE           Sistema de Administraci6n de Equipo (Equipment Management System)
SAM           Sistema de Administraci6n de Mantenimiento (Maintenance Management System)
SNC           Servicio Nacional de Caminos (National Road Authority)
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
TGN           Tesoro General de la Nacion (National Treasury)
UEP           Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto (Project Implementation Unit)
UN            United Nations
YPFB          Yacimientos Petrolfferos Fiscales Bolivianos (Bolivian Narional Oil Company)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY         ................... ....... i
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ....................1
A.  Introduction ................,1
B.  Transport Sector and the Economy                                     2
C.  Management and Regulation of the Transport Sector                    3
D.  Structure of Past Transport Investments
and Government Policy                                  ......      3
E. The Transport Sector                                                  4
11.  ROAD TRANSPORT                     7.......7
A. Traffic and Vehicle Fleet                                             7
B.  Vehicle Operating Costs and Utilization ..7........too.  7
C. Road Infrastructure .... ................. ..........e........  8
D.  Road Administration ..................... .  .e....*.....   9
E. Road Strategy .....ll...........                                     11
F.  Road Investment Plan *......... 12
G. Road Maintenance Programs  *...*..                     . . . * . . . ..    *  14
H.  Impact of the Investment Plan and Maintenance Programs              16
T.  Road Financing and User Charges  1.....9....................... 19
J. Road Construction Industry    ........................o ... .i    21
K. Road Decentralization                 .......22
TII. PAST BANK (IDA) EXPERIENCE IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ................ 23
IV.   THE PROJECT  * ....                  ...                        .... *.26
A.  Justification ........................................  26
B.  Objectives  .............27
C.  Project Description . a 6.  .. .....  .........                     27
D. Project Costs and Financing .. ...                                   33
E. Economic Evaluation          ......                                  33
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Project Execution  ........................................    36
B. Procurement                .............  37
C.  Disbursement and Special Accounts                                   39
D. Audits ...........      . . .......        .     .............. ..  40
E. Environmental Impact .....................                          40
P.  Monitoring and Reporting ..........................                42
G. Project Benefits                                                     43
B. Project Risks .....43
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...........................  44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



VII. ANNEXES
Annex  1:  Transport Administration
Annex  2:  Road Investment Plan
Annex  3:  Road Maintenance Programs
Annex  4:  Road Maintenance Equipment and Workshops
Annex  5:  Road Infrastructure Financing Study
Annex  6:  Road Decentralization
Annex  7:  Traffic Counters and Laboratory Equipment
Annex  8:  Road Safety Program
Annex  9:  TOR: Implementation of SAM and SAE in the Decentralized
Agencies
Annex 10:  TOR:  Study of the Road Construction Industry
Annex 11:  Training Program
Annex 12:  Econom.ic Evaluation
tnnex 13:  Environmental Impact
Annex 14:  Supervision Plan
lThis report is based on the findings of tbe appraisal mission which visited Bolivia from June
26-to July 11, 1991. The mission comprised Messrs. Jose Marfa Alonso-Biarge. Task
Manager/Transport Engineer and Robin Carruthers, Consultant/Economist.  Peer review was
provided by Messrs. John Flora and William Paterson (technical issues). The report rtas
prepared under the supervision of Hr. Graham Smith, Division Chief and Mr. Yoshiaki Abe r
Director, Ms. Anna Maria Calasich assisted in the production of she report.



BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
.~~            C~~EDfT'AN QV l:r~vm~
Borrower:       Government of Bolivia
Amount:         SDR 58.6 milion (US$80 miDlion equivalent)
Torms:          Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project         (a) Improve road conditions in order to reduce vehicle operating costs, improve access to markets
Objectives:     and encourage trade development; (b) improve the road maintenance budget process; (c) improve
road maintenance management, planning and operations; (d) improve investment planning; (e)
assure adequate maintenance funding and fmancial self sufficiency for the national road authority
(SNC - Servicio Nacional de Caminos); (D) strengthen the domestic construction industry and, (e)
transfer maintenance technology and organization to the road regional directorates if the
decentralization of road administration, planned for 1992, takes place.
Project         The Project wil fi-.ance the SNC's maintenance plan for 1992-1995, which will allow SNC to
Description:    reduce the large backlog of maintenance a;.d to match maintenance budgets to real needs, optimizing
investment decisions. This cannot b, achieved by SNC without additional financing and technical
support to ensure that the funds are wel spent. The Project wil comprise: (a) periodic maintenance
by contract of 781 km of the paved network and 765 km of the gravel network (engineering design
and construction supervision to be included); (b) periodic and routine maintenance program by force
account; (c) maintenance and rehabilitation works on 77 bridges; (c) work -compound and
warehouse construction; (e) rehabilitation of maintenance equipment; (f) complementary equipment
purchases; (g) road safety program; and (h) technical assistance for: studies of road maintenanoe
decentralization, road infrastructure financing, and construction industry; project management; and
training for equipment operators and users of the management systems. The Project's share in
financing the SNC maintenance budget wil decline after 1994, until the maintenance budget for
1996 is totally financed by the Government. To ensure compliance with this plan, an agreement
will be reached with the Government by September 30, 1994, on the mechanisms for financing road
and bridge maintenance for 1996 and thereafter, based on the recommendations of the Road
Maintenance Financing Study and the assessment of the SNC's planning and budgeting performance
in the twc preceding years.
Project         The Project wil result in substantial upgrading of about 33% of the maintainable network, with
Benefits:       100% of the paved network and 70% of the gravwl network in good or fair condition in 1996. The
Project will also improve maintenance planning and organization and budgetary control. Other
project benefits include higher availability of road equipment, reduction in maintenance costs, and
introduction of effective and systematic maintenance practices, including the use of contractors for
maintenance. As a consequence, vehicle operating costs are expected to decline. Average rate of
return is 39% for all the roads in the project.
Project Risks:    The main risk is delay in implementation due to lack of counterpart funds. To minimize this risk,
an agreement has been reached with the Govemment to allocate, in its recurrent budgets, the
necessary counterpart funds for the Project. Another potential risk is institutional weakness,
especially if the decentralization is carried out. The decentralization of the administrative
procedures and controls may be difficult, mainly because of the lack of qualified staff at the
departmental level. Institutional weakness may be limited by st-engthening the maintenance
department of SNC (in partic;lar the Project 1xecuting Unit ind the possible decentralized
agencies), by close supervision, and by extensive training programs. The proposed Project includes
financing for these purposes.



ProLect COSt                                                         briLocal  oreen  otal
|- USS Million-
(a) Periodio Maintenance by Contraot                        9.0         36.4           45.4
(Paved Network)
(b) Periodic Maintenance by Contract                        3.7          15.0          18.7
(Gravel Network)
(c) Maintenance by Force Account                          116.7          14.8         131.5
(d) Bridge Maintenance and Rehabilitation                   0.7          2.8            3.5
(e) Workshop Construction                                   1.0          2.5            3.5
(I) Equipment                                               1.5          3.4            4.9
(g) Road Safety Program                                     0.5           1.1           1.6
(h) Institutional Strengthening                             0.0          2.6            2.6
(i) Procurement Services                                    0.0          3.0            3.0
Physical Contingency                                     1.8          5.2            7.0
Price Contingency                                       10.1         _.2            18.3
TOTAL                                              145.0         95.0          240.0
Pinancine Plan
Government                                             145.0         15.0          160.0
IDA                                                      -           80.0           80.0
Estimated Disbursements                                          Bank Fiscal Years
1993   1994    1995   1996   1997
Annual                                                   12.0a/ 22.4   24.8    15.2    5.6
Cumulative                                               12.0  34.4   59.2    74.4   80.0
Estimated Economic Rate:                                39% weighted average for all roads in the Project.
I/ Includes initial deposit to Special Account and retroactive financing
Map: EBRD 23114R



I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.      Introduction
1.1     Bolivia faces a particularly difficult set of development challenges.
Endemic political instability in the past has made it difficult for Bolivia to
sustain development policirg and strategies for long. Annual population growth
rates of 2.8Z have been too high and economic growth too low for sustained
improvements in living standards. As a result, Bolivia is one of the pooreat
countries in Latin America; its 7.3 million inhabitants are poorly educated
(functional illiteracy at 502); its health indicators are among the worst in the
continent (infant mortality at 117 per 1000); a large proportion of its
population faces poverty (802 of the population earn leso than 70Z of the income
required to cover a basic needs basket); and it has extremely poor
infrastructural and social services (e.g. only 302 of the urban population is
connected to a sewerage system and only 152 of rural population has latrines).
About one-half of the economically active population is employed in agriculture,
primarily on the highland of the altiplano where subsistence farming
predominates.   The investment climate, while improving, remains uncertain,
particularly due to continued dominance of the state in the miueral, hydrocarbons
and energy sectors.  The economy continues to rely heavily on a few export
commodities in hydrocarbons and mining for growth, making it vulnerable to
external market fluctuations.
1.2     Following a political and economic crisis from 1980 to 1985, culminating
in hyperinflation over 24,000Z in annual terms, the Government in late 1985
launched its New Economic Policy, which stopped the hyperinflation and launched
a long-term adjustment program to reduce the role of the state and build a free
market economy. Strict controls on public sector expenditures, increases in
public sector prices, a tight monetary policy and a sharp depreciation of the
exchange rate greatly reduced the fiscal deficit and domestic credit creation.
At the same time, the Government undertook a comprehensive reform of economic
policy to liberalize trade, labor and financial markets and provide a structure
of incentives conducive to private sector development, including establishment
of a foreign exchange auction system, a thorough reform of the tax system,
complete freeing of prices and interest rates, and sweeping trade liberalization
with a low uniform import tariff. The new policy stance succeeded quickly in
restoring macroeconomic stability.
1.3     The Jaime Paz Government, which took cffice in August 1989, continued
the stabilization and liberalization programs under difficult conditions and
began to implement many of the policy and legislative changes which were
established by the previous administration. Continuous prudent macroeconomic
management permitted the recovery to be sustained with steady GDP growth of 2.7%
on average through ;,90 and an estimated 4.OZ for 1991. Exports were the most
dynamic element of the economy, expanding 18% annually between 1987 and 1991.
The fiscal deficit has been reduced to below 3% of GDP in 1991 and inflation was
contained below 162 on average during this period.
1.4     The Government's medium-term strategy aims to achieve GDP growth of 4%
to 52 per year, to maintain price stability, and to alleviate poverty. Higher
GDP growth will depend largely on an acceleration of private sector economic
activity, which in turn requires: (i) maintenance of economic stability through



-2-
continued tight flscal policies and market determination of the exchange rate;
(ii) continued policy reforms to improve the business environment; (iii)
restructuring of the banking system to expand the availability of capital for
private investments; (iv) improvement in the basic inftastructure to support
expansion of economic activities; and, (v) improvement in the education and
health systems to improve the state of human resources.
B.      Transport Sector and the Economv
1.5     A well functioning transport system is crucial to the sustained economic
recovery of Bolivia. Bolivia faces serious problems of transport infrastructure:
distances between cities are long, rural areas are thinly populated, mountains
and rivers act as barriers, and the country hAs no direct access to the sea.
These natural disadvantages are formidable and dictate that transport costs will
be high throughout the economy.   The main linkages between transport and the
economy are evident in three key areas: (a) the geography of the country; (b)
physical condition of the transport network; and (c) the physical location of the
network via a vis areas with high development potential.
1.6     First, the geographic conditions, the landlocked position and the size
of the country give transportation an extraordinarily strategic role in economic
development.  Bolivia has a large territory of 1.1 million square kilometers
(slightly larger than France and Spain combined) with a small population of 7.3
million (one thirteenth of France and Spain combined). The overall population
density of 6.5 people per square kilometer is the lowest in Latin America, making
the provision of transport infrastructure more costly per capita than in other
countries. The geography of Bolivia spans from a peak of 6,500 meters in the
highlands of the Andes to 200 meters above sea level in the lowlands of the
Amazon basin.   The spectacular change in elevation makes for unusually high
transport costs both in terms of initial construction costs as well as in
operating costs.  The problems of a large land area and large differences in
elevation are compounded by the landlocked position of the country.   It is
bordered by five other countries: Peru, Chile, Argentina, Paraguay and Brazil.
It still has no paved road access to any of its neighbor countries. Its access
to deep water ports is limited by long distances (between 460 to 3,100 km
depending on the route and point of origin) and poor transport infrastructure.
1.7     The consequence of the geographic condition is that Bolivia has to spend
considerably more on transport to produce every dollar of GDP than most
countries.   It has been estimated in 1988 that road users spend US$0.7-0.9
billion per year on vehicle operating costs and rail users spend a further $40
million. In total this is equivalent to 19-24% of GDP. The corresponding figure
in many developing countries is only 12-13% of GDP.
1.8     The second issue is the poor condition of the existing transport network
caused by poor management and policy decisions of the past transport
administrations. Due to lack of maintenance, 35% of the paved and 76% of the
principal gravel road network have deteriorated into poor-bad condition.  To
compound the problem, planning of transport investments has been haphazard and
poorly coordinated; with new construction being emphasized over maintenance of
the existing network; building new roads with lower economic priority while
segments of the main La Paz-Cochabamba highway have remained unpaved; and



-3-
likeviise, incomplete improvements to several alternative export corridors (road
and rail) have been undertaken, whereas concerted efforts to achieve one or two
efficient routes would have been more profitable.
1.9     The third issue is the location of the transport network.  Existing
infrastructure is, to a significant degree, in the wrong part of the country for
future needs. In the past Bolivia made its living from mineral exports and the
corresponding transport network was developed to support the industry.   The
highlands, where the mines are located, have one-sixth of the land area of
Bolivia, but contain over ons-third of the total rail and road network. With the
decline in the dominance of the mining industry, future economic prospects
require that the economic center of gravity shift from the highlands, where half
of the population now lives, to the lowlands still largely unpopulated and
devoid of transport infrastructure. Furthermore, past transport investments have
focusel primarily on the rail network. The development of the road netteork is
still at an infancy stage where the central highway connecting the three major
cities of La Paz (highlands), Cochabamba (valleys) and Santa Cruz (lowlands) is
not yet completely paved. The tural road network, particularly in the valleys
an  ~e lowlands is sparse and underdeveloped to link the rural agricultural
communities with the main urban centers.
C.      Management and Regulation of the Transport Sector
1.10    The Ministry of Transport, Communications, and Civil Aeronautics (MTC)
is responsible for managing the transport and communications sector, including
all land transport modes and civil aviation, but excluding maritime and river
transport, which is managed by the Ministry of Defense. MTC is responsible for
managing the principal transport agencies: the national roads agency (SNC); the
railway authority (ENFE); the national airports authority; and the national
airline, in which the state has a majority interest. MTC also has responsibility
over the national telecommunications company, ENTEL; and the post office (see
Chart I). Annex 1 describes in more detail the present structure of MTC.
1.11    The regulatory framework and the policies covering the transport sector
is set out in the Supreme Decree 21060 of August 1985. Bolivia has gone from one
of the most regulated transport systems in South America in the 19708 to that of
the least regulated.   With few exceptions, entry into road, water and air
transport is free, and pricing is left to negotiation between operators and
users. The prices of transport fuels were raised to border prices and they have
been kept high since then. The only exception concerns urban passenger transport
pricing, authority over which is delegated to municipalities.
D.      Structure of Past Transport Investments and Government Policy
1.12    Over the past few years, 25 to 30% of the total public investment
program has gone to the transport sector (see Table 1).   The sector has
consistently received the second highest allocation of public investment after
the hydrocarbons sector. Within the sector, roads have received a big share of
the funds, averaging 47 to 85 % per amium, followed by the railway. However, as
discussed in Chapter II, the nature of investments within the sector have been
poor and require major change in the planning strategy.



.4
TRANSPORT                    86   114   118    82
Railway                    15   22   19        8
Roads                      63   65   68    70
Civil Aviation              2    17   16       4
River Transport             6    10   15       0
1.13    The Government's basic investment priorities are to:
(a) maintain and rehabilitate the existing road and rail networks;
(b) integrate the three main populated areas of the country by
rehabilitating and paving sections of the La Paz-Cochabamba-Santa
Cruz highway still in poor condition;
(c) complete two export corridors; one to the Atlantic and one to the
Pacific; and
(d) construct penetration roads in the lowlands to areas of high
agricultural potential.
We elaborate on these strategic priorities in Chapter II.
E.      The Transport Sector
1.14    Railways.   The railway network of some 3,650 km is in two separate
networks. The Andean network of about 2,270 km, in the Altiplano, was the first
to be constructed in the latter part of the last century and first part of this
century. Its principal purpose was to transport mining products to the Pacific
Ocean ports of Antofagasta and Arica in Chile, but it also links to the
Argentinean railway at Villazon in the South and, by means of a ferry service on
Lake Titicaca between Guaqui and Puno, to the Peruvian railway. The Eastern
network, now of about 1,377 km linking Santa Cruz with Brazil and Argentina, was
built between 1950 and 1980. Further construction towards Trinidad in the north
has made little progress and appears to have been abandoned. The two rail lines
are not connected in Bolivia. The only rail connecticn between them is via a 650
km link on the network of the Belgrano Railway in Argentina.
1.15    In addition to the components financed under the Export Corridors
Project (ECP), the current Railway Investment Plan involves rehabilitation of the
link from La Paz to Guaqui, to connect with the Peruvian railway via the ferry
on Lake Titicaca (the link was washed out when the level of the lake rose by 2
meters), rehabilitation of diesel locomotives which have passed the time for



their half life reconstruction and equipment for a new intermodal terminal in
Santa Cruz. Any significant additions to the Investment Plan current at the time
of signing the ECP require the consent of IDA. The investment plans for the next
three years involve a total of US$30 million on deferred maintenance activities.
1.16    ENFE  covers  all  its  costs  without  subsidies  from  the  national
Government. However, this is largely due to large cross subsidies from freight
to Dassenger services, made possible by the lack of competition from the road
transport for freight services. This position will erode in the coming years.
In the past, the rai3way also suffered from excessive government intervention in
pricing. A performance contract signed between ENFE and the Government in 1991
goes a long way toward clarifying mutual responsibilities and ensuring the
railway's financial autonomy.  Furthermore, under the ECP, ENFE signed in
November 1991 a technical assistance contract with Canadian National (Railways)
Corporation (CANAC) for three years to provide a full-time team to help ENFE
operate the railway and make the transition to a more market-oriented operation
and train its managers in modern methods of railway management and operation.
1.17    While ENFE has been making modest  improvements  in its  financial
performance over the past three years, the results for 1991 were exceptionally
good. The company surpassed its monthly revenue targets (set under the 1991
Performance Contract) by a substantial margin and achieved a working ratio of 83Z
covenanted under the ECP. However, given that its revenues are dependent on so
many exogenous factors (e.g., quantities of agricultural crops harvested in any
given year, international market for Bolivia's export crops, etc.), its efforts
to reduce overhead costs must continue. In that context, the retirement of 1,000
employees during 1991 and the dismissal of another 1,000 employees planned for
1992 (more than 35% in total) should help strengthen the company's finances.
1.18    There have also been improvements in ENFE's operational performance in
1991 over 1990, as measured by indicators such as locomotive availability, total
train-km, average net train-load, and freight car availability. All operational
targets under the 1991 performance contract were also met. However, there is
ample room for improvement, and it is hoped that the program with CANAC will lead
to large gains in operational efficiency.
1.19    AirRorts.  The lack of adequate land transport links has placed emphasis
on air transport (important to passengers though not to freight) as a means of
communication.   A vast area of the north east of Bolivia, comprising the
departments of Beni and Pando and parts of La Paz and Santa Cruz, were for many
years totally dependent on air transport for their links with the rest of the
country. There are many airports and airfields in use by civil aircraft. Seven
airports have paved runways capable of accepting B727-100 or equivalent aircraft,
and nine more, with gravel or compacted earth runways, can accept F27 or
equivalent aircraft.   A further seventeer airfields are maintained by the
National Airports Administration (AASANA).
1.20    The three principal airports are Santa Cruz, constructed at a cost of
US$30 million in the late 1970. with Japanese financing, Cochabamba, currently
being reconstructed with Italian financing in a project with a total cqet of more
than US$109 million, and La Paz, recently t-s subject of a study financed with
Japanese aid that recommended substantial reconstruction and expansion at a cost



-6-
of US$138 million.  It is probable that a less ambitious reconstruction will be
started within the next few years.
1.21    As with the land transport modes,  lack of finance has inhibited
develoyment and adequate maintenance of airport infrastructure. The investment
plans for more new development will put even groeter pressure on the scarce funds
available for maintenance of existing facilities. Investment plans for the next
three years Include only US$15 million for preventive maintenance activities but
more than US$250 million for now projects. V1 distinction is made in funding
sources for the two activities, the revenueb '-Nm user charges being used to
contribute to both operating and capital costs.
1.22    The national airline, Lloyd Aero Boliviano (LAB)9 iS currently being put
up for joint venture to inject fresh capital into the operation and to improve
its management.   A commission, appointed by the Minister of Transport, is
analyzing a study from a US consulting firm to privatize LAB. The conclusions
and recommendations of this analysis will be known in late March, 1992.
1.23    River LTransuort. Given the lack of funds for investment in more capital
intensive transport modes, it is surprising that more use has not been made of
river transport. Little use is made of the extensive river system in the north
east region, jV.st where accessibility by road is most difficult. Developments
of new roads in the region are intended to replace river transport rather than
to complement it.
1.24    A new port was built on the Ichilo River at Mamore, but its usefulness
wae short-lived once it was by-passed by the new road between Santa Cruz and
Trinidad. It is possible but unlikely that the importance of Trinidad as a port
will increase following the construction of the road.
1.25    The Paraguay River provides the only direct maritime link between
Bolivia and the open sea, but for fifty years, until the construction in 1989
of a private port at Quijarro, there was no way of making use of this route to
the sea. Now that the port has been completed, it is greatly under-utilized.
It functions ;iore as a transfer point between road and rail for goods destined
for the Brazilian port of Paranagua than as a river port for goods to and from
the River Plate port* of Buenos Aires, Rosario, and Nueva Palmira.
1.26    In general, transport on the Paraguay River has not increased as much
as was hoped. There are four principal reasons for this. First, agricultural
production in Santa Cruz has increased more slowly than expected; second,
climatic conditions during 1991 were very unfavorable for harvests; third, the
world price of soya has fallen to a level where production in Santa Cruz is only
marginally profitable at present transport costs; and fourth, an alternative
export corridor, by rail through Argentina to a private soya terminal near
Rosario, has become the main export corridor for Bolivian soya. Purthermore,
river transport itself has not yet increased in efficiency as much as was
expected, resulting in relatively high transport costs.   In addition, the
overvalued exchange rates of Brazilian and Argentinean currencies make transport
costs by their barge trains very expensive.   Finally,  but perhaps most
significant, ENFE's operations on the Eastern network between Santa Cruz and



-7-
Puerto Quijarro have still not been efficiently organized to provide a low cost
and reliable service.
1.27    The only planned significant public investment in the river transport
sector is for a new port at Puerto Busch at the southern extremity of Bolivian
territory on the Paraguay River.   Progress on this project depends on the
prospects for development of the mining project at Mutun, and it should be
considered as a component of this industrial project rather than as a transport
sector project.
II.   ROAD TRANSPORT
A.      Traffic and Vehicle Fleet
2.01    The most densely trafficked road sections are shown in Table 2. Of the
nearly 13,000 km of road over which traffic counts are taken, more than 6,600 km
(502) carry less than 100 vehicles per day. There are less than 60 km of roads
carrying more than 3,000 vehicles per day and less than 1,150 km (102) carrying
more than 500 vehicles per day..
2.02    Traffic has grown erratically over the last ten years, a period of
economic instability followed by a period of stagnation. From 1982 to 1989, the
average rate of traffic growth was 32 per year. The highest rate recorded, 152,
vas in the period of greatest economic instability, in 1985 and 1986. The period
of negative economic growth was also a period of negative traffic growth, a 62
reduction in traffic being recorded from 1987 to 1988.
2.03    By 1990 the road vehicle fleet numbered 44 vehicles per thousand
population. Its apparent growth during the 1980s has been faster than the growth
in the economy (Table 3). The figures must be interpreted with caution, however,
as there has probably been an accelerated rate of withdrawals from the fleet that
has not been reflected in the estimates of fleet size. The apparent growth in
numbers of trucks has been even greater than the growth in the fleet as a whole,
but is subject to a similar caution iu its interpretation.
B.           Vehicle Ooerating Costs and Utilization
2.04    The structure and level of vehicle operating costs have both changed
since the last detailed investigation in 1983. Fuel charges have increased so
that now they are well above opportunity costs (Table 4), wheress in 1983 they
were heavily subsidized. Financial costs have also increased, and interest rates
are well above inflation instead of being negative in real terms, as they were
in 1983. New vehicle prices are now at international levels, whereas in 1983,
Bolivia was a market for vehicles at prices below those in their country of
manufacture. All these factors have tended to increase vehicle operating costs
above their already very high levels. The only factors working in the opposite
direction have been an improvement in vehicle utilization and a change in the
type of truck being operated.
2.05    Vehicle utilization has improved with the elimination of the monopoly
of freight transport previously accorded to the transport syndicates.  As a



-8-
result of the elimination of the monopoly, several cooperatives and transport
companies with access to bank loans and other private funds have been able to
purchase five-axle semitrailers. Road tariffs now reflect actual economic costs.
Tariffs for long-distance truck-load hauls are of the order of US8 td 10 cents
per ton/km, about double the rates in Brazil, Chile, and Argentina. At least
three factors contribute to these high tariffs. The difficult terrain in much
of the country will always result in higher vehicle operating costs and hence
higher tariffs than in neighboring countries. Lack of suitable backhaul loads
will require higher tariffs to cover total vehicle operating costs for the
foreseeable future. The deteriorated condition of the road network also results
in high vehicle operating costs and high tariffs. The impact of tbis cause of
high tariffs will reduce as the network is improved, particularly in the main
export corridors with the construction of Patacamaya-Tambo Quemado, the
reconstruction of La Paz- Oruro and the construction of La Paz-Cotapata (see
map). The opening in 1988 of the new road between Cochabamba and Santa Cruz has
already significantly reduced road freight tariffs between these cities.
Nevertheless, the vehicle fleet still includes many two and three axle trucks
with high operating costs. As these are replacAd by more efficient larger trucks,
operating costs and tariffs will be reduced in the competitive environment now
prevailing.
C.      Road Infrastructure
2.06    The national road network consists of 41,686 km (December 1989), of
which only 1,776 km are paved (4%), 10,942 km are of gravel (26Z) and 28,968 km
are earth surfaced (70%) (Table 5). For administrative purposes this network is
divided as follows:
Primary    1,372      4,058      620    6,050       692
Secondary    90       2,721     1,879    4,090      822
Feeder       122      4,360    26,464    30,946     942
* Excludes 192 km of paved roads, whose pavement disintegrated.
2.07    The most recent information on the network condition (Table 6) indicates
that only about 11Z of it can be classified as good or fair, 38% as poor and the
remaining 512 as very bad.  (The last category includes all roads, more than
21,000 km, that cannot be efficiently maintained for lack of drainage and
inadequate geometric conditions). Therefore, at least 40% of Bolivia's network
is in a condition where rapid intervention, to prevent further deterioration,
will avoid the need for later expensive reconstruction. Furthermore, much of the
Bolivian cordillera (mountain range) is still geologically very young and subject
to rapid erosion through landslides. This causes a major need for emergency road
and bridge works every year during the rainy season.
2.08    Of the 1,776 km of paved roads, 744 km (422) were constructed before
19709 615 km (35%) were constructed between 1970 and 1980 and 407 km since 1980.



.9.
However, although much of the paved network has been built in the last twenty
years, lack of maintenance and lack of control over vehicle axle loads have
resulted in such a rapid deterioration that most of it now needs to be
rehabilitated or reconstructed. As an example, about 190 km of paved roads were
downgraded to gravel roads in recent years. Until IDA (under the ECP) financed
rehabilitation of the El Alto to Oruro highway (begun in August 1990), almost no
reconstruction, rehabilitation, or resurfacing had been undertaken. The 77S of
paved roads (1,359 km) more than ten years old can therefore be expected to
require some form of resurfacing or rehabilitation in the next few years. The
gravel network has suffered from similar neglect and is also in need of
substantial rehabilitation or reconstruction (see following table).
:~~~~~~~~
Paved         124      808       530    1,462     362
Gravel         14    1,559    5,206    6,799      77%
Earth                  238    2,261    2,499      902
2.09    In the past, road maintenance has suffered from:   (a) inadequate
planning and programming by SNC; (b) budgetary allocations which have been below
requirements and were subsequently further reduced to fund some road
construction; and (c) lack of correspondence between budget allocations and
actual release of funds.   The proposed  Second Road Maintenance Project
incorporates the above lessons of experience by: (i) strengthening road
maintenance administration (re-structuring SNC's maintenance organization); (ii)
improving maintenance planning and operations (through a program of maintenance
by contract and another program of maintenance by force account); and (iii)
helping sustain the road mainitenance programs beyond the project horizon by
assuring that enough resources are allocated and spent on maintenance in the
following 5-6 years (1996-2001).
D.      Road Administration
2.10    Planning, engineering design, co'astruction, and maintenance of roads
are, at present, the responsibility of the National Road Authority (Servicio
Nacional de Caminos - SNC), a semi-autonomous institution financed largely by
government transfers. SNC was set up in the 1960. with financial and technical
assistance from the US Federal Bureau of Roads. An efficient institution in the
late 1970., its effectiveness was impaired by the economic and political crisis
between 1981 and 1985.   Recently, SNC has recovered most of its technical
capability, supported by technical assistance financed by international donors
and lenders. But SEC's future challenges lie mainly in improving its planning
and management capacity for road maintenance.



-10-
2.11    The staff of $NC are divided into three principal divisiones Planning,
Operations and Administration (see Chart II,a). The total staff includes 208
engineers, 420 administratoro, 492 other professionals and 2,737 unskilled
employees, a total of 3,857, most of them direct account workers. The small
proportion of administrative  staff  (172)  is misleading,  as many  of the
professional staff are employed for what are really administrative tasks.
Similarly, the apparent high number of qualified engineers gives a misleadingly
optimistic impression of the technical capacity of SNC.
2.12    Maintenance of the road network is carried out by SNC's maintenance
department (MD), which reports to the Operations Division.   The department
comprises four sections at the central level: planning and control, maintenance
technology, human resources and projects. A uew unit, the Project Execution Unit
(Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto - UEP) was created in 1989 to coordinate the
Implementation of externally financed projects. Force account activities are
controlled through ten districto, reporting directly to the Operations Division.
Road maintenance equipment and workshops are supervised and coordinated by the
equipment department (ED), which also reports to the Operations Division, and is
composed of five units: supervision, procurement, central workeamp, workshops
and El Alto Unit. The entire organization totals about 3,170 people, of which
237 are at the central level. The rest work in the districts. The number of
manual staff and the existing equipment are sufficient to carry out all the
required maintenance work, except in emergencies and some specific works (i.e
bridge repair). In these cases, their work is complemented by the direct hiring
of local contractors.
2.13    £NC has recently put into use a formalized maintenance management system
and equipment maintenance system (known by their Spanish acronyms SAM and SAE,
respectively). With the implementation of the proposed Project, the workload of
the Maintenance Department will permanently increase, beyond the capacity of the
present numbers of staff. However, the implementation of the SAM and the SAE
will limit the increases in professional staff needed and will create
opportunities for reducing administrative and non professional staff. During
negotiations, MTC agreel¶ on a new organization structure and staffing plan for
SNC, acceptable to IDA   The staffing plan takes account of the efficiency
changes possible after the implementation of the SAM and SAE, the increased
workload in the short term arising from the implementation of this Project, and
the eventual reduction in size of the network for which SNC will be responsible.
These factors will be also taken into account for filling vacancies produced by
retirement, resignation or firing.
2.14    Traditionally, external financing to SNC has mainly been allocated to
acquisition of maintenance equipment and to construction programs requiring new
equipment (not suitable for maintenance activities), that is transferred to SNC
at the end of the programs. As a result, SNC has a fleet of 1,672 items of
construction and maintenance equipment ready for operation and about 1,500 old
units to be sold at auction. The loans, credits, and donations already approved
have allowed SNC to purchase 466 new units in 1990 and 1991 (some of them under
IDA's RIC-II, Credit 1828-BO) that will gradually replace old units. However,
SNC has a shortage of current funds to operate such a fleet satisfactorily.
Therefore, SNC has agreed not to purchase further equipment at its current road



- 11 -
maintenance fleet, including recent purchases, is large enough to carry out the
1992-95 maintenance program by force account.
2.15    Equipment management was poor before 1991.  Many units are in poor
condition because they were not properly operated and maintained. SNC's capital
investment in equipment must be better protected by observing regular preventive
maintenance. With the implementation of the SAX, SNC will be able to achieve
satisfactory programs for equipment rehabilitation, repairs and maintenance,
matched to the real needs arising from the road maintenance programs.
Furthermore, the existing structure for equipment administration must be
strengthened and the operators should be trained under a program within SNC. Due
to the lack of tenure in operator positions, the training program should be
permanent. This Project includes such a training program for equipment operators
and SAS users.
2.16    So far, maintenance activ.tites have been dominated by activities
connected with new construction/reconstruction within the Operations Division.
The labor forces in the districts have been frequently involved in programs of
road reconstruction and new construction financed by international and regional
institutions, ir part due to the lack of timely resources (fuels, asphalt) to
carry out maintenance programs. These labor forces are necessary in a coun.ry
with the characteristics of Bolivia, with large and sparsely populated areas
(where there are no contractors interested in maintenance works), with frequent
landslides and other road and bridge emergencies, and with half of the network
in such condition that is not properly maintainable but must be kept passable as
long as possible.   However, these forces should only work in maintenance
activities, leaving the works on road reconstruction and new construction to the
contractors.
2.17    The implementation of this Project will mark a change in emphasis of
activity of SNC, with a greater emphasis being put on maintenance. For this
purpose, within the new organization, SNC will establish a maintenance branch,
separate from engineering and construction. This new branch will be responsible
for all maintenance activities and include the maintenance department itself, a
new bridge maintenance unit, the equipment department and the ten districts. It
will not report to the Operations Department, but directly to the deputy
executive director. The existing equipment management unit, within the equipment
department, will be strengthened, and each of the ten districts will have a chief
maintenance engineer (see Chart II, b).  Furthermore, the Project includes
detailed maintenance programs, agreed with the Government during negotiations,
and will provide the necessary financing to carry out these programs. The agreed
maintenence programs will ensure that personnel is used efficiently and that
maintenance costs carried out by force account are reasonable.
E.      Road Strategv
2.18    The Government has no rigorous strategy for roads.   It responds to
widespread political pressures and aspires to undertake much more than is
feasible. Nonetheless, in its dialogue with IDA, the Government has recognized
that its priorities fall broadly into the four categories listed in para. 1.13s
maintenance, interconnecting the main cities, upgrading export corridors, and
providing access to regions of high agricultural potential. Furthermore, there



-12-
is no clear investment strategy for the secondary and rural networks and none is
likely to emerge Suntil the road decentralization is confirmed and the roads to
be transferred to the regional institutions are known. The Project tries to
strike a balance between the needs for additional investments to provide improved
access to the substantial part of the population which is still deprived of
adequate infrastructure, and the need to maintain the existing network in good
condition. This has been achieved by preparing a Road Investment Plan and a
rolling Maintenance Program.   The preparation of this plan and program has
entailed an iterative, and at times difficult, process of reducing a long list
of desirable projects to fit available financial and administrative capacity.
The central objective is to achieve, towards the end of the decade, the following
goals:
(i)   reconstruction of all justifiable paved roads by 1996,
the completion time of the proposed Project.
(ii)  upgrading  the paved  network  to  100%  in  good/fair
condition and the gravel network to 70Z in good/fair
condition by 1996 (meaning that a substantial part of the
backlog in maintenance will have been eliminated);
(iii) reconstruction of all justifiable non-maintainable roads that are
essential to complete the trunk network or to provide access to
the areas of high agricultural potential, by 2001;
(iv)  routine maintenance on the already maintainable network and the
roads that are upgraded or reconstructed.
F.      Road Investment Plan
2.19    In the absence of a formal plan prepared by the Government, a tentative
Investment Plan for 1992-1996 was prepared by the appraisal mission and
discussed with all three relevant ministries (Transport, Planning and Finance).
The Plan considered both income and expenditure and took into account the SNC's
technical capacity to implement the plan, the capacity of the Government to make
available counterpart funds, and the implementation capacity of the construction
industry (see pare. 2.41). Based on this plan, HTC prepared for negotiations a
modified version taking into account a reduction, early in 1992, in the number
of projects to be financed by IDB. A review of this Plan is provided in Annex
2.
2.20    A roview has also been made of the economic evaluations of subprojects
included in the Investment Plan. SNC has no permanent planning unit capable of
undertaking prefeasibility studies. Therefore, all project evaluations so far
have been made by consultants and all used the Bank's Highway Design and
Maintenance model (HDM 1II). The economic rates of return obtained so far for
new construction subprojects are generally low, 11 to 28%, even taking account
of the favorabl, assumptions made about traffic growth (3% to 9%) and
construction costs. However, they do not include the benefits of generated
traffic, which will be the major source of benefit for most new construction
projects* Reconstruction subprojects show much higher rates of return, generally
between 202 and 50S.



- 13 -
2.21    The agreed new organization structure of SNC (paragraph 2.13) includes
a unit for undertaking prefeasibility studies of potential projects. These
studies will assist in updating the Investment Plan and in determining which
projects should be subjected to more thorough evaluation.
2.22    The Plan would require a total investment of US$832.8 million over the
six-year period. The annual average investment would be US$166 million, with a
maximum of US$227 million in 1993, far more than the budgeted investment of US$63
million in 1991 (see Table 7). This annual total of about US$165 million is
about 30-352 of the likely total public investment (all sectors combined) and
about 2 1/2 - 3Z of GDP, high by any standard. However, although the Plan would
require a large increase in total investment, only a small proportion of the
tota3 investment cost would represent an immediate call on treasury funds (to
provide the counterpart requirements and to service the overseas debt). Thus the
Plan would be within the financial resources of the Treasury and the planning and
management capacity of SNC. Most of the increase in 1992, 1993 and 1994 is for
already committed projects.
2.23    The total investment of about US$833 million, for 1992-1996, includes
expenditure of about US$14 million for studies, US$560 million for projects in
new construction and reconstruction (more than 502 already committed), US$9
million for bridges, US$32 million for rural roads and US$218 million for
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance by contract (see Table 7), of which about
US$85 million corresponds to periodic maintenance by contract to be financed by
this Project. This means that construction and reconstruction account for about
67Z of the total. Though a large share, this is acceptable at Boliva's stage of
development, given the underdeveloped state of the existing network and the need
for high expenditure on improvement and reconstruction. Uaintenance and
rehabilitation account for 262 of the total and include all economically
justified periodic maintenance and rehabilitation.
2.24    The four most expensive single projects in the Plan, together accounting
for 602 of the total investment cost and 852 of the cost for new construction,
are:
(i)   Patacamava - Tambo Ouemado (total cost US$92 million, 822 in the
plan period), co-financed under the Export Corridors Program, is
to provide road access to the Chilean port of Arica for the first
time. The present track is non-maintainable, due to its very bad
geometric conditions and its lack of pavement and drainage;
(ii) Cotapata - Santa Barbara (total cost US$ 192.5 million, 50Z in the
plan period), an extension of the Pacific export corridor into an
underdeveloped region of the North East with great development
potential for the production of export products (particularly
citrus fruits and beef).   This road is in very bad geometric
condition in very difficult terrain, lacks drainage, signalization
and safety rails and, as a consequence, has a high rate of
accidents and mortality.  IDA recognizes that this road, while
exceptionally costly, is warranted in view of its likely
development impact.  However, the Government will need to pay
particular attention to keeping costs down;



- 14-
(iii) San Borla - Trinidad (US$ 90 million, 202 in the plan period), a
further extension of the same corridor to the northern lowlands,
which will provide greatly improved access to an under-developed
region. The present unpaved track is under water during the whole
rainy season (two to three months per year); and,
(iv) Reconstruction of Chimore - Yanacani (US$ 125 million, 78% in the
plan period), improving access to the recently completed new
highway between Santa Cruz and Cochabamba and forming part of the
export corridor from Santa Cruz to the Pacific Ocean ports.
Furthermore, the section Rio Seco-Desaguadero is one of the top government
priorities, especially after'the agreement reached with the Peruvian Government
in February 1992 on the use by the Bolivians of the port of Ilo in Peru, as a
free port. The works in this case are mostly rehabilitation and the project was
evaluated during the preparation of this Project with positive results. However,
it was not included in the Project due to its relatively high cost (US$35
million), which exceeds the limits previously established for works to be
included in the Project.
2.25    The  principal  criteria  used  in  selecting  these  and  other  new
construction projects for inclusion in the recommended investment plan were that:
(i) they should form part of an export corridor and make a clear contribution to
a rapid improvement to the volume and value of exports; and/or, (ii) they should
improve access to areas of high agricultural potential.
2.26    During negotiations, the Government and IDA agreed on the Investment
Plan for 1992-96. The agreement includes annual reviews (in light of the results
of the economic evaluation studies to be undertaken by SNC) and guidelines for
any substantial modification (any modification which will change the projected
treasury expenditure by more than 10% of that planned for the year). Given the
variety of funding sources for the Investment Plan (see Annex 2, paragraph 10),
the annual reviews will include an assessment of success in coordinating this
funding and proposals for remedying any deficiencies.
G.          Road Maintenance Programs
2.27    No comprehensive maintenance planning was practiced before  1990.
Traditionally, the data for budget preparation was generated in the headquarters
of SNC, with very little quantitative input from the field operating units. The
budget format was very general and not based on any measure of expected work
performance. In recent years, the Government, compelled by the road maintenance
level required by the ECP, has made efforts to allocate funds to improve road
maintenance. The corresponding allocations under the current account increased
from US$18 million in 1988 to US$20.2 million in 1989, and US$23 million in 1990
(US$29 million including about US$6 million for purchases of some units of
equipment). The average expenditure on road maintenance, in 1990, of US$570 per
km (considering the entire network) or US$1,1224 per km (considering only the
20,500 km properly maintainable) was not enough to cover periodic maintenance,
so less than 11,000 km received adequate maintenance.



-is -
2.28    The approved budget for current expenditure on roads in 1991 was about
US$22 million. It represents a significant effort, (about 30Z of the total road
expenditure budget, capital and current) but is still a low amount, especially
if we take into account that approximately US$12 million is for salaries and
about 202 of these salaries are for people who, actually, are not working on road
maintenance. In recognition of the inadequacy of the funds allocated to road
maintenance, the National Treasury transferred to SNC, in the second half of the
year, an extra US$4.2 million for the maintenance program.  These facts and
figures confirm the need to prepare adequate maintenance programs and budgets and
to establish an appropriate control system.
2.29    In 1989, SNC started implementing the SAM and the SAE in the five
southern districts under CAP financing and extended the implementation to the
other five districts under the Export Corridors Project. The systems entail a
systematic programming of maintenance operations according to standardized
frequencies, budgeted using standard unit costs and productivity levels. These
standards had to be calibrated and-the roads inventoried as to their condition.
Adjusting the standards and productivity levels to the available budget is
necessarily an iterative process.   Relevant data have to be collected and
analyzed at both local and central levels. The systems were fully implemented
by January 1992. After their implementation, the SAM and the SAE provide the
means to improve the maintenance budget process. Consequently, for the first
time SNC is now able to submit and implement a road maintenance budget based on
specific types and quantities of work to be accomplished.   The maintenance
programs prepared using the systems establish requirements for labor, equipment
and materials. The systems will also be used for monitoring the maintenance
actually performed and for determining future maintenance budgets.
2.30    During project preparation, the general principles of the SAM and the
SAE have been used in preparing the annual road maintenance programs by force
account for 1992-1995 (Annex 3) totaling US$ 131.5 million (US$33 million per
year as an average) and the equipment rehabilitation and operation programs
(Annex 4). These programs (reflected in the projected current budgets, Table 8)
will contribute to eliminating the backlog in maintenance in the network that is
now maintainable or has been recently rehabilitated or reconstructed and will
initiate a normal process of maintenance. The Project also includes an agreement
on adequate funding and administrative arrangements, including a new SNC budget
structure, to ensure that the allocated funds are indeed used in maintenance.
2.31    Since opinions vary on the relative merits of maintenance by contract
and by force account, the proposed dlstribution of maintenance activities will
allow the cost and quality of the two approaches to be compared, as a first step
to reaching an-agreement on the private and public shares of maintenance. The
transition from force account to contract maintenance will have to be gradual,
in a country with the characteristics of Bolivia (see para. 2.16).



H.       Impact of the Investment Plan and the Maintenance Programs
2.32    The following table shows the results expected from the proposed Project
and the on-going and proposed programs for road reconstruction, on the condition
of the 20,500 kn that are, at present, maintainable. The rest of the network
will be kept passable.   The non-maintainable roads that are viable will be
upgraded in future plans, because this type of work is beyond the scope of this
Project.
[ Actual and Planned Condition of the Maintainable Network (gm)
1991                1996
Actual         2   planned  .
Paved Network
Good/Fair         988          62   2,784         100
Poor             _9_6          38        0          0
Total           1584 *       100   2,784 *       100
Gravel Network
GoodlFair       2,801          25   6,749          68
Poor            8,207          75   3.256          32
Total         11,008 *       100   10,005 *      100
Earth Network
Good/Fair         747           9    1,644         21
Poor            7.128          91   6,034          79
Total          7,875         100   7,678         100
Total Network
Good/Fair       4,536          22   11,177         55
Poor            15.931         78   9.290          45
Grand Total    20,467        100   20,467        100
(*) 192 km of disintegrated paved roads will be restored and
about 1,000 km of gravel roads will be upgraded.
2.33    As a summary, total expenditure on roads to date, while growing, has
been insufficient to maintain the,road network at an acceptable standard. When
the level of total investment in maintenance proposed by the Project is reached,
total road investment will be enough to stabilize the network in an acceptable
condition, while staying within the projected financial capacity of the
Government. Of this investment, periodic maintenance by contract will comprise
about US$218 million (including about US$85 million financed by the Project),
about 26% of the Investment Plan.   Maintenance by force account (including
salaries) will add a further US$132 million (US$33 million per year as an
average), adding a further 14% to the total road budget. Of this last amount,
about 70% will be for routine maintenance, 24% for some periodic maintenance and
6% for emergencies. The total maintenance expenditure will then be about 40% of
the total road budget, an acceptable percentage in a country that is far from
completing its principal network.



- 17.
INVESTMENT PLAN AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
290
260-
240-
220-
200
I60 -
c
140-
120-
100 
so 
40      A
20
0                       L      -
1992   1993    1994    99S5    1998   1997   199a    1999   2000   2001
Year
+   Total Road Program    o  Matnten.Force Acct. A    Iainten.by Contract
0   MAIN . FORCE ACCT.



- 18 -
Figure 2
NETWORK LENGTH
12
Iii
10-
9.
.              :
4
2
: :
194591        1992           1993           1994          1995           1996
a  LAngth   v*  Met   +   Leth QbvtI Nat
NETWORK CONDITION
80
80
0C
30
go
140
1991          1992           1991           4994          4995           1996
YEAR
0   Paved NatoOrk    +  Gravel Netwark



19 -
I.      Road Financing and User Charges
2.34    The measures set out above will, in the future, improve SNC's planning,
budgeting and operations but they do not guarantee that enough funds will be
allocated to maintenance and rehabilitatation and that the funds promised will
be actually delivered. In the past, almost all the available investment funds
have been used for new construction rather than for periodic maintenance (Table
9) and the recurrent funds made available have fallen short of allocations
sometimes because tax collections have fallen short of target and sometimes
because the funds have baen diverted to new construction. The administrative
restructuring to separate maintenance from construction should, to a certain
degree, reduce the incidence of diversion but further measures are required to
ensure a consistent and adequate flow of funds for maintenance. Otherwise, the
maintenance activities could decrease after the Project (1996) due again to lack
of appropriate funding and, as a consequence, the condition of the network would
deteriorate and the main benefits of the Project would be lost.
2.35    The recommendation of the first phase of the Road Financing Study,
completed in February 1992, was the creation of a road maintenance fund financed
from dedicated user charges (a fuel surcharge, improved revenues from road tolls
and additional charges for the annual vehicle licensing fees) to iinance road and
bridge maintenance. While the proposed fund would provide greater accountability
for SNC and eliminate the possibility of the Government withholding adequate
funds for maintenance, the measure, if approved, could be contrary to the
objectives of the fiscal reform, and reduce competition for funds within the
Government. Since it is expected that the SNC's planning and budgeting process
will substantially improve with the Project, SNC will be able in the future to
defend sound technical decisions, achieve adequate allocation of funds and
demonstrate that the allocated funds are well spent. A professional assessment
of the results of the maintenance program in the previous year and the evaluation
of returns produced by the invested funds would be the basis to achieve approval
for the allocation of funds in subsequent years. A period of two years will be
necessary to check if the SNC's planning and budgeting improve as expected and
how the Treasury operates in order to guarantee that the allocated funds are
released in a timely manner. At the same time, the possible alternatives for
financing road and bridge maintenance starting in 1996 will be analyzed in the
second phase of the Road Financing Study, including the terms for establishing
a possible road maintenance fund (terms of reference in Annex 5). At the end of
the two years, the Government and IDA will assess again the situation and the
recommendations of the study to decide if it is necessary to establish the fund
before 1996 to guarantee adequate maintenance funding. In any case, an agreement
will be reached by September 30, 1994 on the mechanisms for financing road and
bridge maintenance for 1996 and thereafter.
2.36    Road users contribute to Government revenue through taxes and duties on
vehicles, fuel, lubricants and spare parts and through fees for vehicle licenses,
a capital transactions tax, and road tolls. The major parts of the road user
revenues, by far, derives from fuel taxes and road tolls (covers 99Z of total
user revenues). The user charges on fuel generated about US$8(' million in 1991,
or 892 of total road user revenues; road tolls generated additional US$8 million
in 1991. This amount adequately covered the variable economic expezLditure caused
by road traffic (i.e. maintenance and bdministrative budget) and the counterpart



-20-
funding cost £or investments, and covered a portion of the debt service for past
investment projects. In total, the road user charges covered 86% of the total
expenditures on roads.
2.37    The  current  user  charges,  however,  cause  some  distortions  and
inefficiencies.  For the fuel tax, the current difference in the level of taxes
applied to gasoline and diesel results in small vehicles paying much more in
total user charges than their allocated share of variable maintenance
expenditure, whereas heavy vehicles which use diesel fuel pay less than their
variable maintenance expenditure:
Consumer    User    Uset Charge
Price    Charge    as Z of
Fuel Type       US$/Liter  US$/liter  Consumer Price
Premium gasoline    0.59      0.30       512
Regular gasoline    0.42      0.13       31_
Diesel              0.31      0.03       102
For road tolls, the low average traffic levels, low toll charges, and high levels
of toll evasion and leakage result in low gross revenues.   A recent study
estimated that with better administration and control, the revenue intake could
increase up to US$12 million per annum without an increase in toll levels or by
to as much as US$17 million with increases in tolls which would not significantly
impact on volumes of traffic. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
retail fuel prices will at least maintain their current margin above border
prices plus distribution costs (the sum assumed to be equal to opportunity costs)
throughout the period of the Credit. An attachment establishing the basis to
monitor the fuel prices was also agreed.
2.38    Although the current road user revenues cover a significant proportion
of the road expenditures, the actual requirements to properly develop and
maintain the network require much higher expenditure, and hence revenues. The
recurrent budget requirement to maintain a stabilized network after 1996 (or
after project completion) will be about US$65 million per annum (including
administration, see Table 10). In 2001 a further US$72 million per annum will
be needed for amortization of current and proposed loans and US$6 million for
counterpart funding for new construction. The current user charge revenue of
US$89 million would be inadequate, even if all of it were to be allocated to
finance road maintenance and construction expenditures.



- 21 -
Re cuired Expenditure
1991         2001
Actu,       Required
(Uss milllon, constant 1991 prices)
Investment
(counterpart funds              73.1           6.0
only)
Maintenance                      30.0          64.0
Admniuistration                  3.1            2.8
Debt Service                     42.5          72.4
TOTAL                   105.2         14S.2
2.39    There have been two recent partial studies of road user charges.  The
first study in 1988, carried out as part of the preparation for the Export
Corridors Project, reviewed alternative ways of generating current toll revenues,
and the more recent Road Financing Study (first phase) was concerned with road
maintenance financing.  The first part of Annex 5 includes a summary of the
projection of maintenance expenditures required in the medium term (year 2001)
made in the first phase of the Road Maintenance Financing Study.   It also
includes a summary of the recommendation for financing this level of expenditure.
2.40    In order to ensure proper project implementation and sustainability of
project objectives, an agreement will be reached with the Government not later
than September 30, 1994 on the mechanisms for financing road and bridge
maintenance for 1996 and thereafter.   Furthermore,  in order to ensure an
adequate budget allocation for maintenance during project implementation, it will
be agreed at negotiations that IDA approval of the annual work programs and
approval of new contracts will be contingent upon the Government meeting the
following agreed recurrent budget allocation: 1992- US$ 28.1 million; 1993-
US$42.2 million; 1994 - US$46.1 million; 1995-US$43.2 million; and 1996-US$0.4
million.
J.      Road Construction Industry
2.41    About 425 construction firms are listed with the National Chamber of
Construction Companies in Bolivia, although a total of 1,285 private contractors
executed works for the Emergency Social Fund (ESF) program, partly financed by
the Export Corridors Project (2012-BO). The contractors not listed with the
Chamber are characterized as "informal" construction firms, but more than 95% of
the total number of these "informal" contractors that worked with ESP performed
fairly well. Since most of the works of the program (those valued at less than
Us$250,000) were directly contracted, it appearc likely that ES? demand generated
the formation of new construction firms and opened the door to small, informal
contractors which had shied away from the laborious bidding process used by the
public sector.   This example shows the potential of the local construction
inidustry to carry out small and medium-size projects, such as periodic and
routine maintenance projects. The prorosed Project will foster this potential



-22 -
through a periodic maintenance program and a work compound construction program,
both to be carried out by contract, which will be awarded under local competitive
bidding (LCB) for all contracts under US$2 million, totalling about US$32 million
(out of the almost US$85 million financed by the Project). In addition, every
year, SNC directly contracts to small local firms some emergency works, bridge
repair and other specific works and in the future will continue to do so.
Furthermore, the greater emphasis to be put on maintenance activities by SNC, as
a consequence of the implementation of the proposed Project, will leave to
private contractors many works in road rehabilitation and reconstruction, so far
carried out by SNC's own labor force.
2.42    On the other hand, out of the seven contracts above US$5 million awarded
by SNC in the past two years, five were awarded to joint-ventures formed by a
lncal firm and a foreign firm and the remainder two were awarded to one foreign
firm (Brazilian). This is due to the lack of civil works to be contracted in the
neighboring countries that forces the construction firms of these countries to
bid for civil work contracts in Bolivia, at prices well below the SNC's prices
of reference. To ensure that these low prices will not affect the quality of
works, the proposed Project provides financing to contract independent
consultants to supervise the works. Furthermore, the Project includes financing
for a study to examine all remaining issues which constrain development of the
local construction industry.
K.      Road Decentralization
2.43    Decentralization of responsibility for road maintenance and construction
is expected to begin in 1992.   This decentralization would rationalize and
improve the provision of services, and avoid duplications that now exist. It
also would mobilize local resouzies in order to reduce the financial burden of
the Central Government. The pro 3s8 of decentralization is now pending approval
by the Bolivian Congress and there will be some delays due to administrative
problems and lack of resources to implement the decentralization.   In the
meantime, IDA is financing, undcr the Export Corridors Project, technical
assistance to SNC for preparing detailed terms of reference to develop a plan for
road decentralization (see Annex 6). When the decentralization is approved and
the detailed planning of the process is completed, it will be possible to
implement the technical assistance, for SNC and the new road regional
directorates, to be financed by the proposed Project.
2.44    Approximately only 8,000 km of roads (about 6,500 km of the existing
fundamental network and an additional 1,500 km under construction, see Annex 6,
Table 1) will remain under SNC's administration, according to the recommendations
of a preliminary study completed in March 1990 under the IDA-supported Economic
Management Strengthening Operation program.  The rest of the network (about
33,600 km) will be transferred to the Regional Development Corporations, creating
Road Department Directotates (Direcciones Departamentales de Vialidad-DDVs) in
all of them. The organizational chart proposed for the decentralization of MTC
is shown in Chart III.  The basic organizational chart for the new DDVs is
indicated in Chart IV.   This will require the corresponding transfer of
personnel, equipment, and resources to the regional corporations. The central
administration will keep only supervision and control of the transferred roads,



- 23 -
to guarantee the fulfillment of technical guidelines and appropriate uses of the
resources transferred (see Annex 6).
III.  PAST BANK (IDA) EXPERIENCE IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
3.01    Prior to the two reconstruction and import credits, the Association's
previous transport operations in Bolivia were limited to five credits signed in
the period FY 1972 to 1978 (Table 11). Three were for railways (FY 1972, 1974
and 1977), one for road maintenance (FY 1978), and one for civil aviation (FY
1977). SNC had enjoyed extensive financial and technical assistance from the US
Government from 1955 and from IDB in the 1970s.   The absence of new IDA
operations between 1978 and 1986 reflects the deterioration of economic
management during this period.
3.02    The Bank's first involvement in the road subsector in Bolivia was the
Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 1587-BO - Bolivia was an IBRD borrower prior
to 1985, but reverted in this year -- because of its economic collapse between
1980 and 1985 -- to being an IDA-only country), for a total cost of US$31.6
million including Bank financing of US$25 million. The loan was approved in
January 1978 and the project was carried out between 1981 and 1986. The loan was
closed in December 1986, three years behind schedule and an undisbursed balance
of about US$14,000 was cancelled.
3.03    The project was designed to improve the capability of SNC for road
maintenance and aimed to establish a gradual process starting from a pilot
program.  This was to be launched in the three more trafficked and very
representative districts of La Paz, Santa Cruz and Cochabamba. This would be
expanded to the rest of the districts by a national program. The project was
also designed to prepare and implement the SAM and the SAE nationwide and to
train SNC's personnel. An additional important component of the project was the
National Transport Plan, for which the technical work was undertaken in 1979 to
1980 and the final report produced in 1981.
3.04    Project 1587-BO only partially achieved its objectives of implementing
a wide maintenance program in the three districts named. The main cause of the
deficiency was the economic and political crisis during the years of the project.
Some implementation delays at the beginning, mainly in procurement and technical
assistance, also reduced the benefits of the project. The major benefits were
the new equipment provided under the loan, the design of the SAM by consultants
and the maintenance of the high-volume roads in acceptable condition. However,
these benefits were substantially reduced because the SAM was not really put into
operation, and the maintenance of low-traffic roads was practically nonexistent
and their deterioration overall was higher than before the project. Neither the
design and implementation of the SAE nor the personnel training program were
successful. This was mainly because consultants found it very difficult to engage
suitable experts acceptable to SNC at a very difficult time in Bolivia.
3.05    As summarized in the PCR (Report No. 8673), the main lessons derived
from this project are: a) social and economic stability are essential for the
success of the projects; b) permanent and qualified staff are necessary in the
institutions during project implementation; c) road maintenance projects must be



- 24 -
prepared and implemented guaranteeing continuity in maintenance activities and
gradually establishing the necessary improvements and requirements; d) bidding
documents for civil works, goods and technical assistance must be prepared as
soon as possible, to avoid delays in the maintenance programs, acquisition of
equipment and materials and in awarding consulting services that are basic to the
good performance of the project; e) maintenance and equipment management systems
must be designed in close collaboration with the institutions that will use them
in the future and adapted to the capacity and real needs of the institution; f)
detailed and well studied maintenance programs, considering all types of
activities and affecting the entire network are absolutely necessary; g)
maintenance programs must contain activities and standard parameters that allow
them  to be monitored  and  supervised;  and,  h)  suspension  and  delays  in
disbursements can have very negative effects on road maintenance, with costly
consequences, if much of the network is in or approaching the critical condition
when pavement break-up begins.
3.06    The  National  Transport  Plan  (see para  3.03)  provided  the  first
comprehensive review of the condition of transport infrastructure in Bolivia,
together with an assessment of the transport services offered and the demand for
them. Projections were made for twenty-years, and detailed investment plans were
produced for a ten-year period. Unfortunately the projections failed to identify
the economic and social crisis that started almost as soon as the plan was
published.   This crisis reduced the possibilities of funding the proposed
investments, which soon became little more than aspirations.   Some further
studies continued to be carried out by local consultants who had worked on the
Plan, partly financed by the loan, until 1988. With the change in government,
the National Transport Plan was terminated and its functions absorbed by the new
Subsecretariat of Transport Planning. These have since been transferred to the
Transport Planning Department.
3.07    There were no Bank projects in Bolivia between 1981 and 1986 due to
severe disagreement on the management of the economy.   After resumption of
lending in 1986, there have been two import support programs aimed at providing
urgently needed spare parts for the agriculture, energy and transport sectors;
followed by the Export Corridors Project (Cr. 2012) approved in 1989 to assist
in the upgrading of road and rail networks critical to facilitating exports.
3.08    The RIC-I (Reconstruction Import Credit 1703-BO) was approved in May
1986.  The main objectives of this credit (US$64.0 million) were: a) to support
the economic stabilization and structural reform program begun in August 1985;
b) to alleviate the economy's foreign exchange constraint by financing the
importation of priority equipment, spare parts, and other inputs for key economic
and infrastructure support sectors; and, c) to be a first step in the
rehabilitation of major public enterprises that would play a central role in
Bolivia's medium-term development.  The project was basically completed and was
closed in December 1990.
3.09    The RIC-II (Credit 1828-BO, US$47.7 million) was approved in June 1987,
nine months after the RIC-I began disbursing.   Its main objectives were to
continue supporting the government's reform program and to provide financing to
help in restoring economic growth. Adopting the operational mechanism of RIC-I,
the proceeds of the RIC-II were also used to finance imported priority equipment,



25-
spare parts, and other inputs for the agriculture, energy, and transport sectors.
Furthermore, the procurement agent system has been strongly supported by the
credit.  At present, the credit is well advanced and substantial progress has
been achieved during FY92. The amount committed and disbursed represents about
90% of the credit amount, leaving a nonutilized balance of about US$4 million.
3.10    A third operation was signed in December 1988 for an amount of US$49.4
million equivalent in yen. This co-financing operation by the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) has basically the same objectives,
conditionalities, and operating mechanisms as RIC-II, but is intended to finance
only public-sector imports. It gives IDA responsibility for clearing all the
contracts under OECF financing and for keeping OECF fully informed at each stage.
Despite an agreement in August 1990 to streamline these arrangements,
disbursements are still slow. The present disbursement level only amounts to
about 60% of the credit and the additional amount committed is minimal. This
will likely require at least a six--month extension of the closing date (March
31, 1993).
3.il    IDA's next project in the transport sector is the Export Corridors
Project (2012-BO) approved in May 1989. The project consists of major components
of a program that aims to promote Bolivia's exports and reduce the costs of its
foreign trade by the following measures: (a) improving land transport corridors
to the Atlantic and to the Pacific, (b) strengthening railway management, (c)
improving road and rail maintenance, (d) strengthening the Ministry of
Transportation and Communications in planning and policy making, and (e)
facilitating trade by use of containers and airfreight. The credit amount is
US$37 million.   An all-weather road linking La Paz to the Chilean border
(Patacamaya and Tambo Quemado) to be financed by IDB and the Japanese Government
completes the program. Credit 2012-BO was declared effective in February 1990.
The expected closing date is June 1995.
3.12    The credit includes financing for the following road components: (a)
deferred maintenance and overlay of the La Paz-Oruro highway and supervision of
the same (about 230 km), (b) labor-intensive road maintenance and drainage
improvements on some 30 sections of the main routes to Bolivia's international
borders, to be undertaken by small contractors using labor-intensive methods,
through the Emergency Social Fund and (c) technical assistance to implement
throughout the country, the SAM and the SAE, which were not yet adequately
calibrated to Bolivian performance levels and costs. Generally, these components
are being executed on schedule, after some initial delays in the date for
effectiveness due to government changes and delays in completion of legal
conditions.   The civil works on the La Paz-Oruro highway are contracted and
progressing satisfactorily. It is expected that they will be completed by 1992;
the labor-intensive road and railway maintenance through ESF has already been
successfully completed and disbursed; and the technical assistance to implement
the SAM and the SAE has been completed by January 1992.
3.13    Disbursement on most of the railway components did not begin until late
1991, because ENFE did not meet the conditions for disbursements until then, but
now management and the Performance Contract, agreed with the Government in 1990,
have engendered a more commercial attitude that is showing good results already.
However ENFE has not yet complied with an additional condition for first



-26-
disbursement against works on the La Paz-Arica rail lane, requiring improved
collaboration with the Chilean company. Meanwhile, the INPEX consultancy studies
on the use of containers for freight transport and for promoting air transport
for exports have been delayed because of problems arising from the agency's lack
of experience with IDA-financed contracts.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.      Justification
4.01    The charecteristics of Bolivia, described in paras. 1.5 to 1.9, have
made for low traffic volumes and unuaually high costs of transport (about twice
those in neighboring countries). A major effort has been made to complete the
basic network, but improving maintenance continues to be a critical requirement
(more than 85% of the network is in poor condition) to efficiently service
growing traffic volumes. This priority will require the allocation of additional
funds for road maintenance and for strengthening road organization and operations
in the near future.  IDA's strategy for Bolivia recognizes that the country
requires an adequate transport infrastructure for promoting exports, expanding
industrial development, and developing agriculture.   Reduction in vehicle
operating costs is also of a high prioriy because the high cost of transportation
is one of the major impediments to rural development and thus to poverty
alleviation. With the proposed Project, IDA can use the experience gained under
the previous operations to assist the Government to catch up on the backlog of
maintenance, forestall further deterioration of the road network and correct
institutional weaknesses.
4.02    Under the Export Corridors Project (ECP), SNC agreed with IDA on a
detailed maintenance program for 1990 and an outline program for 1991-93. SNC
will prepare and submit to IDA, before October 31 of each fiscal year, a detailed
maintenance program for the following fiscal year, consistent with the outline
program for 1991-93 and satisfactory to the Association. The road maintenance
level required by the ECP compelled the Government to keep increasing the budget
for SNC's current expenditure from approximately US$23 million in 1989 to US$26
million (plus about US$20 million in the investment program) in 1991. However,
these amounts are not yet sufficient to achieve a satisfactory maintenance level,
especially in the rural network. On the other hand, it is difficult to ask for
a major budgetary effort from the Government when the country is still far from
completing construction and rehabilitation of the road network.   Therefore,
additional financing is necessary, and the proposed Project will help the
Government to achieve this financing, and provide technical support to ensure
that the funds are well spent. If, as expected, the new credit becomes effective
in 1992, the total maintenance and rehabilitation budget will be able to reach
about US$120 million in 1993, including about US$35 million for periodic
maintenance by contract, and similar amounts in the following year.
4.03    The Project will help to finance the maintenance budget with a
increasing share from the beginning, a peak in 1993-1994 and a reduced share in
1995, so that the maintenance budget for 1996 would be totally financed by the
Government (see para. 2.35).  This will allow SNC to catch up on the large
backlog of maintenance and to match maintenance budgets to real needs, optimizing
investment decisions.



- 27 -
4.04    The program of periodic maintenance by contract included in the proposed
Project corresponds to roads that will remain under SNC's administration after
the possible decentralization and therefore, will not be affected by the
decentralization. The rest of the network that is maintainable but not included
in the periodic maintenance program by contract will be maintained under the
maintenance program by force account. The roads that are not maintainable (more
than 21,000 km) need major rehabilitation or reconstruction and this type of work
is beyond the scope of the proposed Project. The maintenance program by force
account includes only works to keep these roads passable. If during the period
of the project decentralization is implemented and a period of adjustment is
needed, IDA will have the right to suspend disbursements until it has reassessed
the need for the affected components, and agreed with SNC on how to proceed.
4.05    The project was designed and prepared during implementation of the
Export Corridors Project and is a logical follow-on. Negotiations were held in
Washington in April 1992. The Bolivian delegation was headed by the Minister of
Transport, Communications and Civil Aeronautics.
B.      Obiectives
4.06    The objectives of the proposed Project are as follows:
(a) Improve road conditions in order to reduce vehicle operating costs,
improve access to markets, and encourage trade development;
(b) Improve the road maintenance budget process;
(c) Improve road maintenance management, planning and operations;
(d) Improve investment planning for roads;
(e) Assure  SNC's adequate maintenance funding;
(f) Strengthen the domestic construction industry by having private
contractors participate in road maintenance works; and
(g) Transfer maintenance technology and organization to the local
governments in the framework of the proposed decentralization.
C.      Proiect Description
4.07    The Project incorporates part of the periodic maintenance by contract
included in the Itnvestment Plan 1992-1996 (para. 2.23) and the Road Maintenance
Program by force account for 1992-95, based on the use of the SAM and the SAE
(para. 2.30).
4.08    The periodic maintenance sub-projects also include routine maintenance
activities.   Routine maintenance will be mainly carried out by SNC.   This
distribution of maintenance activities will make it possible to comparei, in terms
of cost and quality, force account versus contracted maintenance, in order to
determine the most convenient shares of private and public maintenance execution.
The following are the main components of the Project.



- 28 -
(a)   Periodic Maintenance by Contract
4.09    The four-year plan of periodic maintenance by contract was agreed with
the Government during negotiations, and will be updated annually and presented
by SNC to IDA for review by September 30 of each year. The staff of the Project
Implementation Unit (UEP) in SNC is capable of updating the programs according
to the agreed methodology.   The subprojects included in the plan have been
evaluated in the framework of a multiannual maintenance program based on a
detailed inventory of road conditions prepared by SNC and its consultants. The
evaluation includes those remaining sections of the paved roads not included in
the reconstruction programs or already habilitated or reconstructed, and all the
gravel roads with sufficiently high standards and traffic volume to warrant
periodic maintenance.
- Civil Rorks
4.10    As a result, 781 km (50%) of the paved network (Tables 12.1 and 12.2)
and 765 km (7X) of the gravel network (Table 13) have been included in the
periodic maintenance program to be financed by the Project. Cumulative additions
of other roads in excess of 5% of the agreed total (in km) will occur only with
IDA's agreement. Out of the 781 km of paved road, 186 km have been selected for
thin overlay (2 inches or 5 cm), 510 km for surface treatment and 85 km for
sealing., The 765 km selected from the gravel network will be regravelled (4
inches or 10 cm). The works will include drainage, installation of road signs,
other improvements and routine maintenance activities, to bring the roads up to
a satisfactory condition. The average base cost per km ranges from US$70,000 to
US$94,300 for overlay and improvement, from US$35,000 to US$120,000 for double
surface treatment and improvement, from US$16,600 to US$34,800 for regravelling
and improvement and from US$17,000 to US$18,800 for sealing and improvement. The
unit coste, while high, are acceptable.   The base cost for the periodic
maintenance program for the paved network is US$42.6 million. The base cost of
the periodic maintenance program for the gravel network is US$17.5 million.
- Engineering Design
4.11    The task of completing the final engineering design for the roads
included in the four-year periodic road maintenance program oy contract is beyond
the capacity of SNC.   Therefore, funds are included under the Project for
contracting outside consultants to assist SNC in carrying out the engineering
designs for roads included in the last two years of the program. As a part of
the plan of action agreed during negotiations, these engineering designs will be
completed by December 31, 1992. (Engineering designs for roads included in the
first two years have been completed during project preparation).   This will
facilitate the project's timely execution. The total base cost for these designs
is US$0.2 million for the paved network and US$0.2 million for the gravel
network.
- Supervision of Civil Works
4.12    To  provide  quality  control  and  ensure  compliance  with  bid
specifications, independent consultants funded by the Project will supervise the
civil works on the periodic maintenance program by contract. It is estimated



-29-
that the supervision will cost about 6% of the total works to be contracted and
should total US$2.6 million for the paved network and US$1.0 million for the
gravel network.
(b)   Maintenance by Force Account
4.13    During  project  preparation,  the  maintenance  activities  and  the
parameters of the SAM and the SAE were reviewed and updated and used to prepare
the maintenance programs for 1992-95. Total requirements for labor, materials,
and equipment were determined using performance standards for each activity,
based on approved work methods. The base cost for the maintenance program by
force account (routine, some periodic, and emergency) for the period covered
under the Project (1992-95) is US$131.5 million (Annex 3) or about US$870 per km
per year, counting the total network, or about US$1,600, counting only the
network that is properly maintainable (20,500 km).  The required amounts are
substantially above the amounts budgeted in recent years. With this program,
those remaining sections of the paved network not included either in the
maintenance program by contract nor in the SNC's reconstruction programs, and
about 4,000 km (36%) of the gravel network and 900 km (3%) of the earth network
will be resurfaced.
4.14    The 1992-95 maintenance programs by activity as specified in Tables 1-5,
Annex 3, form an integral part of the Project and were agreed during
negotiation.. The Government agreed to provide the funds needed to implement
these programs. Agreement was also reached that by September 30 of each year,
SNC will present to IDA a satisfactory updating of the road maintenance budget
for the next fiscal year, and by March 31 of each year report to IDA the actual
budget, by category of expenditure, spent for maintenance in the preceding fiscal
year.
(c)   Bridge Maintenance and Repair
4.15    SNC's proposed bridge maintenance and repair program includes 77 bridges
(Table 14) identified and surveyed by SNC's engineers responsible for bridge
maintenance. The works required to preserve the integrity of these bridges
comprise some minor structural repair and maintenance work, as well as protective
and channeling work in the rivers crossed. Most of the bridges are located on
the roads included in the periodic maintenance program by contract. The base
cost for this component is US$3.5 million. The agreed new organization structure
of SNC (para 2.17) includes a bridge maintenance unit within the maintenance
department and, as part of the agreed plan of action, SNC will complete
engineering designs for bridges to be started in 1994 and 1995, by December 31,
1992. (Engineering designs for brieges to be started in 1992 and 1993 have been
completed during project preparation).
(d)   Work Compound and Workshop Construction
4.16    Adequate work compound workshops and warehouses  are essential to
maintaining a road network and an equipment fleet. Under Loan 1587-BO, the Bank
financed technical assistance to reorganize existing work compounds and
workshops. However, several existing work compounds and warehouses require



-30-
reconstruction to bring the existing facilities to an acceptable standard. Also,
there is a need for construction of several small workshops to carry out minor
repairs and preventive equipment maintenance. Details of the program are given
in Annex 4, Table 5. The Project includes US$3.5 million for this program to be
carried out by local contractors.
(e)   Eguipment
4.17    Purchases of new equipment are not   necessary to carry out the
maintenance programs (1992-1995) by force account (para. 2.14), unless new units
are justified by future adjustments of these programs. However, many units need
to be rehabilitated before they can be put into service. A program of equipment
rehabilitation and repair has been prepared by SNC using the SAE with the
assistance of consultants (Annex 4, Table 3). This program includes the needs
for equipment rehabilitation and major repairs during the period 1992-95 and
comprises all units more than three years old in 1991. It is based on the needs
in equipment availability to carry out the 1992-95 maintenance programs by force
account. The total cost of the program is about US$3.0 million. The equipment
rehabilitation and repair will be carried out by contract.  This contracting
system will have the additional advantage of preventing the expansion of SNC
staff. Minor repairs included in the equipment repair programs will be carried
out by SNC's and local suppliers' workshops that have adequate facilities.
4.18    The following needs will be met by other types of equipment to be
financed by the proposed Project:
-   Adequate control of axle loads and maximum vehicle weights requires
the acquisition of veh4cle weighing scales and the rehabilitation
of control stations, that can also be used to control vehicle
emissions. The Project provides US$1.0 million for these purposes.
SNC will put into operation the axle weighing eqvipment, financed
by this Project or other lenders and donors, by December 31, 1993,
following the results of the study, financed by the Credit 2012-BO,
completed in January 1992.
-   Improving traffic data and strengthening works supervision require
acquisition of traffic counters and laboratory equipment for the
SNC soil laboratory (Annex 7). The Project includes US$0.9 million
for these purposes.
(f) Road Safety
4.19    The current signalling system is inadequate. Except on major traffic
arteries, there are no road markings and vertical signalling is minimal. Safety
barriers are almost nonexistent. A program for marking and signalling and for
barriers has been prepared for the period 1992-96. The cost for the materials
needed to carry out this program is US$1.6 million (Annex 8).   The Project
provides funds for the acquisition of these materials, which will be installed
by SNC personnel.



-31-
(g) Institutional StrengtheninR
4.20    This  component  is designed  to improve maintenance management  and
administration in SNC, even in the case of a possible decentralization during the
years of the Project.   It aims to increase the level and quality of road
maintenance, focusing SNC's activities on maintenance tasks through the
following: (i) an action program to be agreed with SNC during negotiations; (ii)
technical assistance; and, (iii) training.
(i)   Action Program
4.21    During negotiations, agreement was reached on an action program (see
para 5.23). It includes the following changes in SNC's organization:   (i)
creation of a maintenance branch in SNC, separate fror the engineering and
construction branches, assisted by the UEP and comprising the maintenance
department, the equipment department and the districts; (ii) creation of a bridge
maintenance unit within the maintenance department; (iii) strengthening of the
equipment management unit, withir the equipment department; and (iv) appointment
of an engineer in charge of road maintenance in each of the SNC's ten districts.
(ii)    Technical Assistance
-   Implementation of the SAM and the SAE in the local Departmental
Road Directorates (DDV).
4.22    The Project will provide technical assistance for strengthening the
technical and administrative capacity of the proposed new DDVs, and their
organization during and after the probable transfer of responsibility for road
administration. This technical assistance will also include: (a) implementation
of the SAM and the SAE in the new DDVs; (b) training for DDVs' staff in the use
of the SAM and the SAE; (c) study of human, physical, and financial needs of SNC
and the new DDVs; and (d) organization and use of these resources after the
decentralization. Detailed terms of reference are included in Annex 9 (confirmed
during negotiations). The Project provides US$1.0 million for this assistance.
If the decentralization is not carried out during the years of the Project, this
technical assistance will not be implemented.
- Road Infrastructure Financing Study
4.23    The existing system of road financing is unsatisfactory. SNC acts only
as an executing agency for road maintenance and construction. It has limited
planning capability and financial responsibility. The existing system of road
user charges is inefficient in raising revenue, and there is no direct link
between the most important user charge, that derived from fuel taxes, and
expenditure on road infrastructure. The technical assistance included in this
Project will analyze the possible alternatives to ensure adequate maintenance
funding when the Project is completed. The study will also provide for a review
of the standards of road design, the costs of maintenance and construction, and
the appropriate level and structure of road user charges.  Detailed terms of
reference are included in Annex 5 (confirmed during negotiations). The total
cost of the technical assistance is estimated at US$0.4 million. The study will
be completed by December 31, 1993.



-32-
_ Construction Industry Study
4.24    This study will analyze the existing capabilities and structure of the
Bolivian construction industry to identify constraints on management, equipment,
and finance. The analysis will assess the effectiveness of government incentives
to strengthen the viability of local firms.  The study will also review the
existing levels of construction technology and ways to improve it. Other areas
covered by the study will include: wage rates, employment regulation, import
procedures and customs duties, taxation regime, and regulations affecting the
construction industry.   The study will be completed by December 31, 1993.
Detailed terms of reference (confirmed during negotiations) are included in Annex
10. The cost for this study is estimated at US$0.2 million.
- Proiect Executing Unit (UEP)
4.25    The UEP was created in SNC in 1989 to coordinate actions on projects
with external financing. Nevertheless, it has focused on the implementation of
the SAM and the SAE, using CAP's financing first and IDA's later on. In recent
months the UEP has also coordinated the preparation of information for this
Project. We consider this unit an important part of project implementation,
especially as from the very beginning the chief of the unit has been assisted by
a foreign consultant. This consultant now has a comprehensive knowledges not
only of the UEP and the Project components but of the SNC's policies and
procedures as well. The Project provides financing to extend the contract of
this consultant, or to contract another one, during the four years of the
Project, at an estimated cost of US$0.5 million.
(iii)    Training
4.25    Training was to have been important in the development of the first
Highway Maintenance Project (1587-BO), but only 7Z of the planned effort was
carried out, due to the political and economic crisis during the years of the
project. However, training and equipment materials were purchased and one
training center was established in Suticollo, near Cochabamba. Recently, SNC has
rehabilitated this training center. With some additional purchases of equipment
and training materials for this school, it will be possible to carry out a
detailed training program, prepared by SNC (see Annex 11).   This program
(confirmed during negotiations) is mainly addressed to potential users of the SAM
and the SAE and equipment operators.  The Project includes financing for the
training program, at a base cost of US$0.3 million and an additional US$0.2
million for training activities and scholarships for SNC's qualified staff.
(h) Procurement agencies' fees
4.27    By  law,  all  public-sector  procurement  for  amounts  over  200,000
bolivianos (approximately US$60,000) must be handled by international procurement
agents. The Government so far has general agreements with two such agencies:
the UN Office of Project Services, the Crown Agents (UK) and C3D (France). Each
implementing agency may choose which to use. Provision for procurement services
of these authorized procurement agents is estimated at an average of 2.8Z of the
costs of works and goods to be processed by them. The costs of these procurement
services total US$3.0 million.



- 33 -
D.      Project Costs and Financing
4.28    The total cost of the four-year (1992-95) program, including provision
for contingencies over the implementation period, is estimated at US$240.0
million equivalent. Of this sum, US$80.0 million, or 33.3 percent of the total
project cost, would be financed by IDA.  The remaining US$160.0 million (an
average of US$ 40.0 million per year), or 66.7 percent of the total project cost,
would be financed by the Government.   The IDA Credit will finance the foreign
exchange component for civil works and equipment and the technical assistance
program. The table on the following page summarizes the components, the foreign
and local base costs, the provisions for physical and price contingencies and the
loan financing plan. The project cost by year is shown in Table 15, and by
agency in Table 16. The costs reflect July 1991 prices.
4.29    Project cost estimates are based on: (a) final engineering for the first
and the second years of the pariodic road maintenance program and preliminary
engineering for the third and fourth years; (b) preliminary cost estimates for
bridge and workshop rehabilitation obtained from the up-dated costs of past
works; tc) published suppliers' spare parts and ot;-er materials prices, adjusted
for inflation; and (d) prevailing fees for individual technical assistance
consultants (US$12,000 per man-month for expatriate consultants and US$6,500 for
local). The costing was done in foreign currency equivalent, so the expected
realignment of the exchange rate will not affect the total project cost in
dollars.
4.30    Provision for physical contingencies has been adopted at a rate of 10%
of the base price for periodic maintenance by contract, bridge maintenance and
work compound and workshop construction. Physical c ntingencies are estimated
at US$7.1 million. Provision for foreign and local price escalation is based on
IDA projections of price index variations for road-related manufactured goods
imported to Bolivia. The rate used is 4 percent for the period 1992-96. Price
contingencies total US$20.4 million equivalent.
4.31    During negotiations the Government, to ensure timely implementation,
agreed to earmark the counterpart funds for the Project for the next four years
as follows: 1992 - US$28.1 million; 1993 - US$ 42.2 million; 1994 - US$46.1
million; 1995 - US$43.2 million and, 1996 - US$0.4 million; (see Tables 15 and
16).
4.32    Furthermore, it is necessary to ensure that, starting in 1996, the
maintenance budgets will be totally financed by the Government (see para. 4.03).
For this purpose, an agreement will be reached by September 30, 1994, on the
mechanisms the Government will use to finance road and bridge maintenance
expenditure, routine and periodic for 1996 and thereafter (see para. 2.35).
E.      Economic Evaluation
4.33    During project preparation, an economic analysis was made of all road
subprojects included in the periodic maintenance component and all equipment
rehabilitation included in the equipment component. These components account for
72% of the total project costs and 58% of the IDA financing.   The average
economic rate of return is 39% for the periodic maintenance component, with an
average of 37% for the paved network and 45% for the gravel network, and 42% for



-34 -
SECOND ROAD AINTERACE MOPRJECT'
flNAICISO OF TROJECT C0STS
. ~~~~~~~~~ 0 F~~~~~~~~~ianoinI Plea
Local PoreiRn Total            Local Toratit Total    I SNC          IDA
| _._--illion ----            --.8$$ alion ..--.          .uS$m4tllo-
A.   Periodic asintenance, Paved Natwork
a) Overlay                               10.6      43.7       54.3        2.8      11.5       14.3      2.8       11.5
b)  Surface treatment                    20.1      81.7      101.8        5.3      21.5       26.8       5.3      21.5
c) SealinI                                1.1       4.6        5.7        0.3       1.2        1.5       0.3       1.2
d) Engineering Studies                    0.0       0.8        0.8        0.0       0.2        0.2       0.0      0.;
*) Supervision                            2.3       7.6        9.9        0.6       2.0        2.6       0.6       2.0
| Subtotal                 .             34.2      138.3      172.5        9.0      36.4      45.4       t;o 96.
a    Periodic mainteonanc*s Gravel network
a) RUgravelling                          13.3      53.2       66.5        3.5      14.0       17.5       3.5     14.0
d) Engineering Studies                    0.0       0.8        0.8        0.0       0.2        0.2       0.0       0.2
e) Supervistion                           0.8       3.0        3.8        0.2       0.8        1.0       0.2      0.8
0_SuStot^t 0              '   ~~~~~~14. i  55-5   0  71.1   A_ 3. t,l      S 0 ISI    .7%03          5-O_
C    htntenanca by Porce Account
a) Personnel                            262.6       0.0      262.6       69.1       0.0      69.1       69.1      0.0
b) Equipment operation                  173.7      44.8      218.5       45.7      11.8       57.5      57.5       0.0
c) Road materials                        *7.2      11.4       18.6        1.9       3.0        4.9       4.9      0.0
cubt al  .           ,"                 443.5      56.2      499.7      116.7   -  148 , 131.5    jSl.5. 0.0
| rid,e maintenance                             2.7      10.6       13.3        0.7       2.8       3.5       0.i       2.8
P.   WorkCoupound Construction                  3.8       9.5        13.3        1.0    .:'2.5      I3.5       1.0 -     2.5
P    Equipmunt
a) Rehabilitation                         3.4       8.0       11.4        0.9       2.1        3.0       0.9      2.1
b) Scales & control atations              1.1       2.7        3.8        0.3       0.7        1.0       0.3      0.7
c) Counters and Lab. Equip.               1.1       2.3        3.4        0.3       0.6        0.9       0.3      0.6
Subtotal'  K    .                         37 .    12.9        a8.6    -    .5       3.   4    9           "        4
0a,         f.t            .'                   1.9       4.2'::  . .  6        0.5       I.1       .1..                1
H    Institutional Strengthening
a) Inpleent. of SAM & SAE                0.0       3.8        3.8        0.0       1.0        1.0      0.0        1.0
b) Road Infra. Financing                  0.0       1.5        1.5        0.0       0.4        0.4       0.0      0.4
a) Conct. Industry Study                  0.0       0.8        0.8        0.0       0.2        0.2       0.0      0.2
d) Project Coordination                   0.0       1.9        1.9        0.0       0.5        0.5       0.0      0.5
*) Training Courses                       0.0       1.1        1.1        0.0       0.3        0.3       0.0      0.3
f)  Training Activities                   0.0       0.8        0.8        0.0       0.2        0.2       0.0      0.2
Subtotai                                  0.0       9.9 -       .i         .6                  2.5    0.0
r    Procur"e t aervic.B                       °.0    ; 11.4   ,  11.4          0.0       3.0       3.0       0.0       3.0
BASE COST                            505.8     308.6      815.9      133.1      81.6      214.7    147.9      66.8
Physical contingencies                    6.8      19.8       26.6        1.8       5.2        7.0       2.5      4.5
Price contingancica                      38.4      31.2       69.5       10.1       8.2       18.3       9.6      8.7
TOTAL COST                              551.0    359.3       912.0      145.0      95.0      240.0    560.0    80.0



- 35 -
the equipment component . The following Table provides a summary of the results.
Further details are provided in Annex 12.
Component Cost
US$ million   ERR
Periodic Maintenance
- Paved Network                 42.6    37X
- Gravel Network                17.5    45%
Subtotal Periodic Maintenance     60.1    39X
Equipment Rehabilitation           3.0    42.
4.34    The economic analysis of the periodic maintenance coraponent was carried
out using the HDM III model.  The following options were examined by the model
on 838 km of the paved network: (a) routine maintenance; (b) sealing of 10 mm
(only for roads with asphalt concrete); (c) double surface treatment of 20 mm;
and, (d) asphalt concrete overlay of 50 mm. Four components of postproject
routine maintenance were considered for each section of paved road evaluated as
follows: a) patching, (b) resealing, (c) patching and resealing, and (iv) routine
maintenance. A separate analysis was conducted for 893 km of the gravel roads.
The evaluated project was similar in all cases and included proviuion of a new
surface of 150 mm of gravel, with associated complementary works such as
construction of retaining walls, provision of drainage, and so forth.  Four
components of postproject routine maintenance were considered for each section
of road evaluated: (a) replacement of between 5 and 50 m3/km/year of gravel; (b)
grading at intervals determined by the volume of traffic, from once every fifteen
to ninety days; (c) replacement of the surface with 100/150 mm of new gravel at
intervals also determined by the volume of traffic; and, (d) routine maintenance.
4.35    The analysis resulted in the following recommendations: for the 1,731
km of road analyzed, 185 km merit only routine maintenance because of low actual
and projected traffic; these sections of road were therefore excluded from the
periodic maintenance program. Of the remaining 1,546 km included in the program,
186 km justify overlay, 510 km justify surface treatment, 86 km justify sealing
and 765 km of gravel roads merit regravelling.
4.36    Three sensitivity analyses were carried out on the economic evaluation
of each subproject. The first considered a 25% increment in construction and
maintenance costs, but with the benefits constant. The second considered a 30%
reduction in benefits, while the third assumed that the value of car and
passenger time savings was zero. Almost all tests produced acceptable rates of
return (greater than 12%) for all subprojects. Two exceptions were subprojects
in the gravel network (in the district of Santa Cruz) with a cost of less than
US$0.6 million and a combined road length of 23 km. There are reasons to believe
that the economic rate of raturn on both links is underestimated because of the
conservative assumptions of traffic growth.  Both links are expected to have
higher than average traffic growth rates because they provide links to committed
new industrial developments. They have therefore been retained in the program.
The estimated cost and economic rate of return for each road link are shown in
Annex 12.



- 36 -
4.37    The basic rates of return vary from 162 to more than 1002.  Economic
ratea of return are sensitive to the investment cost of subprojects. This being
so, agreement should be reached during negotiations that IDA will be consulted
before implementation of any subproject where final engineering costs exceed the
original estimate by more than 252 in dollar terms.
4.38    Furthermore, the Bank's  HDM model was used to analyze different quantity
standards for routine maintenance and select the optimum alternative for a
specific road condition. The levels of maintenance were so optimized and used in
the SAM to obtain the maintenance program and budget.   Another model, the
Expenditure Budgeting Model (EBM) was then used, interacting with the HDM model,
to select the maintenance policies and maximize the investment under the budget
restrictions.   Theee new quantity standards were then used in the SAM to
determine another maintenance program, adjusted to the resources available.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.      Prolect Execution
(a)     General
5.01    Implementation of the Project will take about four years from the third
quarter of 1992 through the second quarter of 1996 (Chart V). This is the time
necessary to carry out the plans for road and bridge maintenance, work compound
construction, equipment rehabilitation and technical assistance.
5.02    SNC will have  ovarall responsibility  for the Project.   The new
organization structure of SNC, agreed during negotiations, includes a new
maintenance branch (para. 2.17), separate from engineering and construction, to
improve the efficiency of road maintenance. The maintenance branch comprises the
maintenance department, the equipment department, the new bridge maintenance unit
(para. 4.15) and the ten districts. This new organization will be implemented
before credit effectiveness. In this way, SNC will be enabled to focus more on
maintenance tasks, thus increasing the probability that the Project will succeed
in permanently increasing the level and quality of road maintenance. As part of
this restructuring, SNC will appoint an engineer in charge of road maintenance
in each of its ten districts.   With these changes, SNC will be capable of
carrying out the Project. Purthermore, local and foreign contractors working in
the country have already satisfatorily carried out programs at or about the scale
foreseen under the Project.
5.03    The maintenance branch and the future DDVs will be the beneficiaries of
the credit. The labor-intensive road maintenance and rehabilitation funded by
ESF saw the emergence of many small contractors. This valuable experience will
be taken into account. General administrative coordination and relations with
IDA will be supported by the project executing unit (UEP) in SNC, which was
established under previous credits.   The UEP, now within the maintenance
department, will be transferred to the new maintenance branch. This will extend
the present role of the UEP to the equipment department and the districts. The
UEP will be assisted by an expert financed under the Project.



-37.
(i)   Periodic and Routine Maintenance
5.04    Overall responsibility for carrying out the road maintenance component
will be vested in the maintenance branch. It will carry out most of the routine
and emergency maintenance as well as some periodic maintenance. All other road
maintenance will be carried out by contract. Preparation of final engineering
and bidding documents and final cost estimates for civil works of roads scheduled
to be contracted in the first two years of the Project have been completed by SNC
with the assistance of consultants.
5.05    Civil works contracts will be packaged to comprise about 50-150 km of
road works grouped, wherever possible, by geographical location and type of work.
This would facilitate contractors' logistic activities, speed up the work, and
attract more foreign contractors to compete.  A list of tentative package.,
agreed during negotiations, is provided in Table 17.
5.06    To ensure adequate quality, all civil works to be contracted will be
supervised by engineering consultants funded under the Project. They will ensure
compliance with design specifications and report any delay in execution as well
as propose on-site solutions in case of unforeseen difficulties. They will also
submit to SNC quarterly progress reports.
(ii)   Other Components
5.07    Maintenance and rehabilitation of bridges will be carried out by
contract and supervised by the new bridge maintenance unit (paras. 4.15 and
5.02)* Work compound and warehouse construction and rehabilitation will also be
carried out by contract and supervised by the construction units in the
districts. Rehabilitation of all equipment will be done by private suppliers'
workshops under control of the supervision division in the equipment department.
This same division will control the acquisition of spare parts and material for
equipment operation. Acquisition of traffic counters will be controlled by the
maintenance department, acquisition of laboratory equipment by the geology and
geotechnic division, and acquisition of asphaltic materials by the maintenance
department. Equipment for the axle-weight study and traffic counters will be
installed under the supervision of the maintenance department.
(iii)   Technical Assistance and Training Programs
5.08    The responsibility for the various technical assistance and training
assignments will be as follows: (a) implementation of SAM and SAE in DDV's -
maintenance branch, (b) road infrastructure financing - planning and road policy
department, (c) construction industry study -, planning and road policy
department; and (d) technical assistance to project executing unit - UEP.
B.      Procurement
5.09    Procurement  will  be  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, May 1985". The
selection and appointment of consultants for studies and technical assistance
will be consistent with the August 1981 "Guidelinest Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency." During negotiations,
standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods and works, which will be
printedp a standard letter of invitation and a model form of contract for the



-38-
employment of consultants, were agreed upon. They will then be used for all
procurement financed under the proposed credit.
5.10    Works.   The civil works components include contracts for US$84.4
million. Civil works contracts for periodic road maintenance are estimated to
cost US$75.6 million. Bridge maintenance and repair is estimated to cost US$4.4
million.   Workoompound construction is estimated to cost US$4.4 million.
Contracts for periodic road maintenance valued at US$2.0 million each or above
(US$52.7 million), will be awarded through international competitive bidding
(ICB) and when valued below the US$2.0 million limit, if not in excess of US$22.9
million equivalent in aggregate, will be awarded through local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. LCB procedures will also be used for
bridge maintenance and repair and construction of workcompounds totaling US$8.8
million, since these will have a small cost (no more than US$300,000 each) and
be  geographically  scattered.    Rehabilitation  and major  repairs  of  road
maintenance equipment may need to be carried out at specialized workshops abroad,
to whom complete machines or assemblies (engines, transmissions, etc.) would be
sent.   Thus, in prder to save on freight costs, these overhauls would be
contracted, up to an aggregate of US$3.0 milion, through limited international
bidding (LIB) based on lists of prospective contractors from convenient locations
and ensuring adequate competition. Minor repairs of equipment valued at below
US$25,000 and not exceeding US$0.5 million in aggregate, will be contracted
locally, on the basis of price quotations requested from at least three qualified
workshops.
5.11    EcuiDment. Materials and Goods.  Traffic counters, weight scales and
laboratory equipment totalling US$2.1 million and road safety materials (US$1.8
million), will be grouped in packages valued at above US$100,000 and procured
through ICB. However, small groups of items costing less than US$25,000 and not
exceeding US$0.5 million in aggregate, may be procured on the basis of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers. For the purpose of comparing
foreign and local bids for goods under ICB, domestic manufacturers may be allowed
a margin of preference in accordance with Bank's guidelines.  A summary of
procurement arrangements is presented in the Table below. Due to the complexity
of the data, the project implementation schedule cannot be presented in a single
table. The information is included in TableO 12, 13, 14 (i and ii), Tables in
Annex 3 and 4, and Chart V.
5.12    IDA will review ex-ante all procurement documentation under ICB and LIB
procedures as well as LCB docume'nts for work contracts estimated to cost above
US$500,000 equivalent.   LCB _  tments for work contracts valued at between
US$250,000 and US$500,000 equivalent will be subject to ex-post-review by IDA.
All other procurement documentation will be retained by SNC and subject to
selective ex-post review by IDA. Under these procedures IDA's prior review will
cover about 70Z of total contract values.



- 39 -
i~~~~~~
Vorke
w.rodta Maintenance (P&ved letoerk)                                  43.3       10.2                             5 33.5
(34.$)      (6.2)       C-)          C )    (43.0)
Periodic (etnrenance (Gravel Network)                                9.4        12.7        .                    22.1
(7.7)     (10.1)       C-)                 (17.6)
SrIO MIUtenAnOc  and XepOIr                                           -          4.4        -                     4 4
C.)       (3.6)       (-)          C )     (3.6)
Work Comound Comtruction                                                         4.4        .                     4.4
C-)       (3.2)       3-)          C )     (3.2)
Rquprut Rehabilitstion                                              3.0 1         -        0.5                   3.5
t2 1)        C          0) t0.4) b/  C )     (2.5)
Zunet Wrtetle and Coode
epare rate tg   -d Oo,d                                               ,-                                635.    65.5
C-)         C-)       C-)          C-)      C-)
Other gqipaent (Traff.co=zt, Leb, smal.)                            2.1           -         -             -      2.1
(1.5)        C-)        C-)          C-)    (1.5)
Aephbltic Materilel for Rod Maint. by S                                                                  5 .6     5.6
load Sefety Materials                                               1.3           .        0.3 b/         -       1.8
(1.0)        C-)       (0.4)         C-)    (1.4)
Conu2tants
*rvW  end Superuision                                          .            .        3.0c/          -       5.0
C-)         C-)       (4.0)         C-)    (4.0)
?netitutional Strnthenin                                                                   3.0 di         -      3.0
C-)         (-)       (3.0)         (-)    (3.01
Recurrent lapenditure                                                -            .         .           69.1    69.1
NIP - lrot tD  linanced (Compoueto fnaced only 1by the Oavermnnt)
a  Figuree in parauthels are the eounto financed by MD.
31  Shopping
IlCntatn  services
d  Coneutin  ervies. trai   tuitioL eDd fello eips
Linted Internattoul Riddn  CLI)
C.          Disbursements and Special Account
5.13    Disbursements will be made on the following basis:
-   80Z  of  total  expenditure  on  civil works  from  the  periodic
maintenance by contract program in the paved and gravel networks,
and engineering and supervision of the same, and for the bridge
maintenance and repair program.
-   702  of  total  expenditure  for  work  compound  and  equipment
rehabilitation.
-   1OOZ of foreign expenditure for equipment and road safety materials.
-   1002 of expenditure for technical assistance by consultants.
The allocation of credit proceed. for the various categories is shown
in Table 18.
5.14    Retroactive financing is recommended for payments made under the Project
after January 1, 1992, but before the date of signing of the Credit, up to a
total of US$8.0 million to finance the program of maintenance for 1992 and
technical assistanca to the UEP.



40-
5.15    A special account will be established in the Central Bank with an
initial deposit of US$4.0 million (this figure represents approximately four
months of expected IDA disbursements). SNC would be entitled to make payments
from the special account for the IDA-financed portion of all expenditure.
Applications for replenishment of the special account would be submitted using
statements of expenditures (SOEs) for expenditures under contracts for: (a) civil
works whose value is the equivalent of US$500,000 or less; (b) equipment and road
safety materials costing the equivalent of US$25,000 or less; and (c) consultant
services  and training  costing the equivalent of US$20,000  or less.   At
negotiations, agreement will be reached with the Government on the terms and
conditions for the special account, including the implementation of internal
controls for the management of the account.
5.16    The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed credit, based on
the assumption that the credit would become effective by October 1992, is shown
in Table 19.   The estimated profile  extends disbursements through mid.1997,
almost five years, which approximately coincides with the standard profile for
Bolivia.  By comparison, the road component of the Export Corridors Project
(about US$20 million) will take about three years to disburse.  To allow for
possible slippage, the closing date would be June 30, 1998.
D.      Audits
5.17    Under the Export Corridors Project (2012-BO) it was. agreed that the
implementing agencies wold be required to appoint private independent commercial
auditors to avoid the delays in submitting audit reports to the Association under
previous projects.   This agreement has been extended to this Project.   All
records relating to project expenditures will be kept by the UEP within SNC.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that SNC will contract private
external auditors acceptable to the Association, to audit project expenditures,
Special Account, Project Account and Statements of Expenditures, in accordance
with generally accepted auditing standards. The audit report will be submitted
no later than four months after the end of each fiscal year.
E.      Environmental Impact
5.18    So far, SNC's capacity to analyze the environmental impact of road
projects is very limited. Its planning department reviews environmental issues
in particular projects on an ad-hoc basis, but it has no staff permanently
assigned to the task. It also does not have up-to-date environmental guidelines
to be used by contractors. In the past, SNC has turned to outside consultants
for a study whenever a major issue arose.  While outside help is a viable
strategy to deal with major studies, SNC's capability needs to be strengthened.
The Environmental Technical Assistance Project, currently under preparation, aims
to address the environmental institutional strergthening needs of the central
environmental authorities, and of sectoral executing agencies like SNC. For this
Project (but mainly for future SNC projects probably involving new construction
or major upgrading in environmentally sensitive areas), it is important to
institutionalize an environmental assessment and management capability within
SNC.    Therefore,  as  a  condition  for  negotiations,  SNC  established  an
environmental unit (EU) within the planning department with an environmental
specialist and support staff.   The unit will be provided with sufficient
resources to carry out its task.  The EU will be responsible for issuing an
environmental assessment (including initial project screening and terms of
reference for environmental impact studies). The final environmental declaration



- 41 -
for all projects will be the responsibility of the newly established
Environmental Protection Agency, before the signing of each civil works contract.
This will disclose any environmental issues, and describe mitigatory measures
needed to address it. The EU will also prepare environmental guidelines to be
used by contractors and supervise the work of consultants when a full impact
assessment study is required. In particular, the EU will do the following:
(a) Prepare a plan for measures to mitigate the direct and indirect
effects cf the road.
(b) Examine the design and the contracts of road construction and
maintenance to verify that environmental aspects have been
considered,  and  to prevent  or mitigate  the possible  negative
effects.
(c) Help to educate personnel in the construction area of SNC on the
measures that should be taken to avoid or mitigate negative effects
of construction on environmental, cultural, and archeological
resources.
(d) Follow the construction process of the works, advising the SNC on
problems and suggesting corrective measures.
Se) Help to select forest guardmen for the protection of special areas
and protected species, and help to train them so that they fulfill
their responsibility of protection agents.
(f) Train the staff of the SNC on environmental, cultural and
archeological matters.
(g) Liaise with the Ministry of Education on matters related to cultural
protection of the projects.
(h) Collaborate with other government agencies responsible for the
renewable natural resources and environmental protection, in
preparing guidelines for evaluation studies of environmental
programs  for  transport,   emphasizing  road  construction  and
maintenance.
(i) Aid in identifying and contracting additional consultants needed to
execute  environmental  protection  programs  included  in  road
construction and maintenance plans.
(j) Participate in the preparation of all annual and quarterly reports
on implementing measures included in the environmental protection
programs.
(k) Identify and organize the collection and analysis of the information
needed to prepare ex-post studies on environmental effects,
including the methodology to be used.
5.19    Since the civil works under the Project involve only maintenance (routine
and periodic) of the existing infrastructure with no new road construction or
major upgrading, they will not adversely affect the quality of environmental or
ecological systems. Only minor environmental effects would result directly from



-42 -
the road maintenance works themselves, which include quarrying, borrow pits, and
disposal of road matarials and wastes. A study of such possible effects on the
environment was carried out by SNC with the assistance of a specialist financed
by Credit 2012-BO. The study recognizes that the maintenance programs financed
by the Project will have a positive effect for the environment, and will help to
eliminate or reduce negative effects produced by road construction and/or lack
of adequate road maintenance (namely reduction of road-related erosion and
improvement of stream drainage at road crossings). The results of the study also
include the measures to be taken to relieve those possible effects on the
environment. These measures have been considered by SNC as specifications for
the maintenance works and incorporated as safeguards into the bidding documents
for all the civil works financed by the Project and into the SNC code of
maintenance. The summary, conclusions, recommendations and main specifications
for contractors and SNC resulting from the study are included in Annex 13.
F.     Monitoring and ReRorting
5.20   During negotiations, agreement was reached on annual proiect reviews with
the participation of the Government, SNC and IDA, which will cover the following
topics:
- SNC's new organization performance
- Investment Plan (including coordination of sources of funds)
- Program of periodic maintenance by contract (1992-1995)
- Program of maintenance by force account (1992-1995) and actual
expenditure
- Retail prices of transport fuels
- Maintenance financing
- Road decentralization
- Program of institutional strengthening
- Environmental mitigation measures
- Audit reports
5.21  A mid-term Proiect review will be carried out in 1994 and will include an
assessment of SNC's maintenance planning and budget allocations and the
correspondence between budget allocations for maintenance and actual and timely
release of funds by the Treasury. The review will also include agreement on the
mechanisms for financing road and bridge maintenance, starting in 1996, based on
the assessment above and the recommendations of the Road Maintenance Financing
Study (paras. 2.35 and 4.23). The supervision of project implementation will be
carried out according to the Supervision Plan in Annex 14.
5.22 The four-year plan of periodic maintenance by contract will be updated
annually and presented by SNC to IDA for review by September 30 of each year.
SNC will also present to IDA a satisfactory updating of the road maintenance
budget for the next fiscal year, and by March 31 of each year report to IDA the
actual budget, by category of expenditure, spent for maintenance in the preceding
fiscal year.  Physical progress on the maintenace programs, data on quality
control and the parameters in the SAM and the SAE (annual work quantities,
performance standards etc.) included in the tables of Annex 3 and 4 will be used
as performance indicators to monitor the Project.
5.23 In addition, agreement was also reached during negotiations on an action
program including the following:



43 -
Credit        , Put into effect the agreed new maintenance
Effectiveness  organization (para. 2.17)
- Put Into effect the bidding documents agreed during
negotiations
Dec. 31, 1992  Complete engineering designs for civil works to be
__________   started in 1994 and 1995 (paras. 4.11 and 4.15)
Dec. 31, 1993  - Put into operation the axle weighing equipment
(par&. 4.18).
- Complete the road financing study (pars 4.23) and
the road construction industry study (para. 4.24).
Sep. 30, 1994  - Assess SNC's maintenance planning and budget
allocations.
- Agree on the mechanism. for financing maintenance
for 1996 and thereafter (paras. 2.35 and 5.20).
5.24    SNC will submit guarterly reports to IDA containing; (i) an updated list
of eligible subprojects of periodic road maintenance by contract; (ii) progress
in implementation of all civil work contracts and other project components
including the latest cost estimates; (iii) the status of credit disbursements
against forecast; (iv) the amount of counterpart funds allocated to the Project
in the fiscal year and the amount actually spent; (v) the actual road maintenance
budget for the preceding year, the budget allocated for the current year, and
physical progress plan for the year; and (vi) the effects of the Project on the
environment during the period reported.  Finally,  SNC will submit to IDA a
propect completion report by December 31, 1998, or 6 months after the credit is
closed whichever is earlier.
0. Proiect Benefits
5.25    The Project will contribute to a substantial upgrading of about 33% of
the maintainable network, with 100% of the entire paved network and 70Z of the
gravel network in good or fair condition by 1996, substantially reducing the
large backlog of maintenance. The Project will also improve maintenance planning
and organization and budgetary control. Other project benefits include higher
availability of road equipment, reduction in maintenance costs, and introduction
of effective and systematic maintenance practices, including the use of
contractors for maintenance. As a consequence, this will substantially reduce
vehicle operating costs. The average rate of economic return is expected to be
39% (see para. 4.34).
H. Pro2ect Risks
5.26    This is the third IDA/IBRD-financed road project in Bolivia and it has
been prepared on the basis of experience gained in the previous projects. In the
past, one major obstacle to bringing the road network to acceptable standards was
weak maintenance management. Under the Export Corridors Project, comprehensive
management systems were completely implemented by January 1992, and now are
available to SNC's staff, which will help overcome one of the major past risks.
Another risk in the past, the possibility of delay in starting civil works
because of insufficient engineering design capability, will also be avoided by
having completed designs before appraisal for the first two years and by
including funds in the Project for technical assistance for engineering designs
for the two last years.



- 44.
5.27    The main remaining risk is delay  in implementation  for lack of
counterpart funds. To minimize this risk, an agreement has been reached with the
Government to allocate in its recurrent budget the necessary counterpart funds
for the Project.   Another potential risk is some institutional weakness,
especially if decentralization is carried out. Experience in other countries of
the region indicates that it is relatively easy to decentralize the remittance
of funds but difficult to decentralize administrative procedures and controls.
This is mainly because of the lack of sufficient qualified staff at the
departmental level. Strengthening the, maintenance department of SNC, especially
UEP and the possible decentralized agencies, the designed supervision strategy
(Annex 14), and extensive training programs will help to limit these risks.  In
addition, the planned implementation of the maintenance and equipment management
systems in the future DDVs, the study of personnel and physical and financial
needs for SNC and the DDVs, and the organization and use of these resources after
the decentralization will further mitigate this risk. Taken together with the
training of SNC staff in the use of the SAM and the SAE of equipment operators,
and the technical assistance to the UEP, these measures adequately address the
institutional risk.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01    Agreement was reached during negotiations on the following:
(a) SNC will establish a new structure (para. 2.17) which will include
the following changes: (i) a planning unit capable of undertaking
prefeasibility studies and updating the Investment Plan will be
established in the planning department (para 2.21);   (ii) a new
maintenance branch will be created, separate from the engineering
and construction areas (paras. 2.17, 4.21 and 5.02); (iii) the new
maintenance area will be assisted by the UEP and will include the
present maintenance department, the equipment department and the
districts (paras. 4.21, 5.02 and 5.03); (iv) a new bridge
maintenance unit will be created within the maintenance department
(paras. 4.15, 4.21 and 5.07); (v) the maintenance management unit
within the equipment department will be strengthened (paras. 2.15,
4.17 and 4.21); (vi) an engineer in charge of road maintenance to
be appointed in each of the SNC's ten districts (paras. 4.21 and
5.02); and, (vii) the new environmental unit created in the planning
department will be provided with sufficient resources to carry out
its tasks (para. 5.18).
(b) The 1992-1996 Road Investment Plan of SNC was reviewed, found
generally satisfactory and agreed. SNC will give evidence to IDA
before introducing any new major investment into the program that
such investment is economically justified and will not exceed the
financial and managerial capacity of the Government. The capacity
is taken to be that indicated in the agreed Plan, so any change,
which will require an increase in treasury funding in any year of
more than 10Z above that in the agreed Plan, will need to be agreed
with IDA. The Plan will be annually reviewed by IDA, in light of the
results of the economic evaluation studies to be undertaken by SNC
(para. 2.26). The review will include an assessment of the succees
in co-ordinating the various sources of finance for the Plan (para.
2.26).



- 45.
(c) Retail prices of transport fuels will be maintained, throughout the
period of the credit, at least at their current margin above
opportunity cost, which includes the sum of border price,
distribution costs and dealers' margins (para. 2.37). An attachment
establishing the basis to monitor the fuel prices was also agreed;
(d) IDA approval of annual work program and approval of new contracts
will be contingent upon Government meeting the following agreed
recurrent budget allocation: (paras. 2.40 and 4.31)
1992 - US$28.1 million
1993 - US$42.2 million
1994 - US$46.1 million
1995 - US$43.2 million
1996 - US$0.4 million
These amounts will be revised and agreed upon during the annual
progress reviews, depending on project implementation.
(e) If during the period of the project decentralization is implemented
and a period of adjustment is needed, IDA will have the right to
suspend disbursements until it has reassessed the need for the
affected components, and agreed with SNC on how to proceed (para.
4.04);
(f) SNC will carry out periodic maintenance by contract according to the
list of roads agreed with IDA and included in the document "Programa
de Mantenimiento de Carreteras por Contrato 1992-95," that will be
updated annually and presented to IDA by September 30 of each year
(para. 4.09);
(g) Cumulative additions to the periodic maintenance by contract plan
of other roads in excess of 5% of the agreed total (in km) will be
done only after obtaining IDA's agreement (para. 4.10);
(h) The Government will cause SNC to implement the 1992-95 maintenance
program by force account, as detailed in the document entitled
"Programa de Mantenimiento por Gesti6n Directa, 1992-95" and
allocate the funds necessary to implement this program (para. 4.14);
(i) SNC will present to IDA, by September 30 of each year, a
satisfactory updating of the road maintenance budget for the next
fiscal year and, by March 31 of each year, will report to IDA the
actual budget, by category of expenditure, spent for maintenance in
the preceding fiscal year (para. 4.14). To facilitate monitoring
on the funds used in maintenance, SNC will modify the structure of
its current budget, in coordination with the Ministry of Finance
(para. 2.30);
(j) SNC will consult with IDA before contracting any work under the
Project if final engineering estimates exceed the original cost
estimate by more than 25% in US dollar terms (para. 4.38);



-46 -
(k) Road civil works will be grouped in packages according to the
geographical location and type of work (para. 5.05).
(1) The revised standard bidding documents, agreed during negotiations,
will be printed and used for procurement of works and goods under
the Project (para. 5.09);
(m) SNC will contract private external auditors, acceptable to IDA, to
audit project expenditure, special account, project account and
statements of expenditures in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards. SNC will keep all records relating to project
expenditure within the institution (para 5.17);
(n) SNC will play an expanded monitoring and reporting role in project
supervision, according to a supervision strategy to be detailed
after the signature of the Credit (para. 5.21); and
(o) SNC will submit quarterly reports to IDA showing: (i) an updated
list of eligible subprojects of periodic road maintenance by
contract; (ii) progress in implementation of all civil works
contracts and other project components including the latest cost
estimates; (iii) the status of credit disbursements against
forecast; (iv) the amount of counterpart funds allocated to the
Project in the fiscal year and the amount actually spent; (v) the
actual road maintenance budget for the preceding year, the budget
allocated for the current year,  and physical progress of the
maintenance plan for the year; and (vi) the effects of the Project
on the environment during the period reported (para. 5.24).
6.02    During negotiations, agreement was also reached that annual project
reviews will be held with the participation of SNC, the Government, and IDA. The
annual reviews will cover the following (para. 5.20):
-   SNC's new organization performance
-   Investment Plan (including coordination of sources of funds)
-   Retail prices of transport fuels
-   Program of periodic maintenance by contract (1992-1995)
-   Program of maintenance by force account (1992-1995) and actual
expenditure.
-   Road decentralization
-   Maintenance financing
-   Program of institutional strengthening
-   Environmental mitigation measures
-   Audit reports
A mid-term proiect review will be carried out in 1994 and will include an
assessment  of SNC's maintenance planning  and budget  allocations  and the
correspondence between budget allocations and actual and timely release of funds
by the Treasury.  Taking into account the results of the assessment and the
recommendations of the Road Maintenance Financing Study, an agreement will be
reached on the mechanisms for financing road and bridge maintenance for 1996 and
thereafter (paras. 2.35, 2.40, 4.23 and 5.21).



-47-
6.03    Finally, during negotiations, an action program was agreed with SNC to
expedite project execution and expand maintenance capacity. The action program
(para. 5.22) will include the following:
(a) Completion of engineering designs for the civil works of roads and
bridges to be started in 1994 and 1995, by December 31, 1992 (paras.
4.11 and 4.15).
(b) Purchase of portable scales for vehicle weight control are to be
placed in operation by December 31, 1993 (para. 4.18).
(c) Completion of the Road Infrastructure Financing Study and the Road
Construction Industry Study by December 31, 1993 (para. 4.23).
(d) Agreement on the mechanisms for financing road and bridge
maintenance starting in 1996 by September 30, 1994 (paras. 2.35,
2.40, and 4.32).
6.04    As conditions for credit effectiveness, SNC will have:
(a) Implemented the changes in its organization detailed in para.
6.01(a); and
(b) Put into effect the bidding documents agreed during negotiations
(paras. 6.01(l).
(c) Signed the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Government.
6.05    On this basis, the project would comprise a suitable basis for a
development credit of SDR 58.6 million, equivalent to US$80.0 million to Bolivia,
on standard terms with a 40-year maturity.



BOLIVIA                                      Tablo 1
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PUBLIC SECTOR TRANSPORT INVESTMENT (USS million)
1987       1987       1988       1988       1989       1989        1990       1990
Sector                 Prog.     Actual      Prog.     Actual       Prog.     Actual      Prog.     ActuaL
~~~~~~.... .................. ................................................... _........... ...................................
Transportation         177.5       86.0      105.9       123.8      133.2      118.0      128.9       81.7
AgricuLture             64.9       23.7       20.9       51.9        42.3       36.7       44.0       34.6
Mining                  16.5        4.0        15.5       13.0       32.7       12.3       19.0        1.5
Hydrocarbons           151.0       87.9      141.2       92.3       185.5       92.9      156.4      105.4
Industry                13.4        2.2        0.3        2.7        1.6         1.3        2.0        0.5
Power                   15.2       21.4       45.7       22.6       44.0        22.4       27.6       19.7
Communication           34.6      .14.6       13.5       11.5       24.8         5.6       28.4       21.2
Health                  11.5        7.4        9.4        7.5        7.8         8.9       16.7       19.6
Education               16.3        8.7        4.7        7.0        10.0        9.8       16.1       14.4
Sanitation              40.3       16.9       28.6       30.0       37.7        30.5       35.6       29.3
Housing                 43.7       24.3       44.4       37.0       24.5        22.2       20.1       16.9
Water                    4.4        0.6        2.9        2.5         6.0        1.6        3.0        2.2
MuLtisector             16.8        7.5        7.7        16.2       22.5       14.3       16.3       12.7
Other                    3.7        0.3        5.9        0.8         0.2        0.7        0.8        0.8
Total Investment       609.8      305.5      446.6      418.8      572.8       377.2      514.9      360.5
Actual/Prog.                         50%                   94X                    66X                   70X
Transport Investment      29X        28X        24X        30X         23X        31X        25X        23X
Actual/Prog.                         48X                   117X                   89X                   63X
Annual Growth - Total                           -27X       37X         28X        10X       -10        *4X
Annual Growth - Transport                       -40X       44X         26X        -5S        -3X       -31X
..........................................................................................................



- 49 -
BOLIVIA                                                        Tabte 2
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
NATIONAL ROAD NETWORK
LINKS WITH AADT GREATER THAN 1,000 VEHICLES PER DAY
. .................................................
Ruta      Link                                                        Length             TMDA
No.         Origin              Destination                   Kms          (1989)
.....................................................................................
2         1 El Alto                La Paz                              12          28,537
4         2 QuilLacollo            Cochabamba                          13           6,619
9         3 Warnes                 Santa Cruz                          33           4,490
.....................................................................................
Sub total                                                                   58            9,942
9         4 Guabira                Montero                              3           2,966
4         5 Vinto                  Quillacoilo                          4           2,917
9         6 Montero                Warnes                              21           2,849
7         1 Cochabamba             Sacaba                              11           2,720
4         2 La Guardia             Santa Cruz                          18           2.383
....................................................................................
Sub total                                                                   57            2,688
4         3 Corhabamba             Angostura                           15           1,957
1         3 Tarapaca               Senkata                              5           1,944
6         4 Aeropuerto             Sucre                                7           1,884
1         5 Calamarca              Patacamaya                         44            1,788
4         6 Suticollo              Vinto                                9           1,786
1         7 Tomatas                Tarija                               7           1,585
1         8 Senkata                CaLamarca                          38            1,567
107         1 El Alto                Viacha                              21           1,531
1         2 Oruro                  Vinto                                7           1,485
7         3 Sacaba                 Aguirre                             38           1,406
1         4 Patacamaya             Sica Sica                           22           1,359
4         5 Angostura              Tolata                              15           1,253
4         6 Santa CruZ             Cotoca                              18           1,238
7         7 Aguirre                Colomi                               5           1l189
4519            Punats                Padcaya                              4            1,091
4         1 Vinto                  P.Parotanl                          79           1,007
.....................................................................................
Sub total                                                                  254            1,289
TOTAL                                                                      369            2.865
.....................................................................................



- 50 -
BOLIVIA                                Table 3
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ROAD VEHICLE FLEET AND
ROAD TRAFFIC VC'.UME. 1983 TO 1990
................. .................................... .....
a) Vehicle fleet
vehicle type              1983      1984      1985      1986     1987      1988      1989      1990
1 Motorcycle              44,524   45,698   46,723   47,379   48,990   37,487   38,762   40,079
2 Car                     43,050   46,086   58,441   69,838   72,212   81,568   84,341   87,209
3 Jeep                    12,782   13,318   14,577   17,918   18,527   19,480   20,142   20,827
4 Van                     15,649   16,807   22,303   27,050   27,970   72,078   33,169   34,296
5 SmaLL  truck            24,182   25,978   29,281   38,329   39,632   40,105   41,469   42,879
6 Truck                   26,742   28,124   28,819   36,639   37,885   41,540   42,952   44,413
7 Small bus                5,863    5,981    6,031    7,409   *7,661    7,833    8,099    8,375
8 Bus                      3,357    5,798    3,435    3,862    3,993    6,295    6,509    6,730
9 Ambulance                   27        30        30        31        32        64       66        68
10 Tractors                     C         0         2         7         7         5         5        5
,................................................................................................
.ub total              176,176  187,820  209,642  248,462  256,S10  266,455  275,514  284,882
Official vehicles        9,233    9,233    9,485    9,523    9,523    9,002    9,002    9,002
Total                  185,409  197,053  219,127  257,985  266,433  275,457  284,516  293,884
,................................................................................................
Annual growth rate                   6.3%    11.2%    17.7%       3.3%      6.8%      3.J%      3.3%
b) Road trafic volune, as meesured by road transport fuel sales (thousand lftres)
Fuel type                 1983      1984     1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990
................................................................................................
Gasoline              452,943  433,753  442,643  462,354  515,672  516,565  531,0S4  529,312
Diesel                 246,520  237,909  236,444  248,510  291,910  300,084  333,753  388,617
................................................................................................
c) Fuel consumption per vehicle (litres/year)
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990
................................................................................................
Gasoline power           4,193    3,768    3,184    2,706    2,919    2,681    2,665    2,569
Diesel power             5,815    4,980    5,205    4,356    4,949    4,454    4,791    5,39'
........................... ......
Average                  4,564    4,037    3,584    3,039    3,328    3,051    3,109    3,160
................................................................................................



- 51 -
BOLIVIA                                Table 4
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ROAD TRANSPORT FUEL PRICE STRUCTURE,
FUEL CONSUMPTION AND USER CHARGE REVENUE, 1991
Premiun     Special
gasoline    gasoline       Diesel    Kerosene        Total
................................. .......................................................................................................
Ex refinery price         Ss/litre              0.71        0.49         0.36        0.29
Dealer's margin           Bs/l.tre              0.11        0.07         0.06        0.02
Transport alLowance       Bs/litre              0.03        0.03         0.03        0.01
Wholesale price           Bs/litre              0.84        0.60         0.44        0.32
Government taxes          Bs/litre              1.37        0.97         0.72        0.59
Producer's price          Bs/litre              0.74        0.52         0.39        0.31
Price to consumer         3s/litre              2.10        1.49         1.10        0.90
Consumer price
USS litre                 USS/litre             0.59        0.42         0.31        0.25
USS gallon                USS/gallon            2.24        1.59         1.17        0.96
USS barrel                USS/barrel            94.6        S7.1         49.5        40.5
Opportunity cost and road user charge (USS per litre)
Border price                  USS/litre         0.17        0.17         0.16        0.14
Distribution costs (est.)    USS/lltre          0.12        0.12         0.12        0.10
Opportunity cost              USS/litre         0.29        0.29         0.28        0.24
Price to consumer             USS/litre         0.59        0.42         0.31        0.25
User charge part of price    USS/lltre          0.30        0.13         0.03        0.01
.......................................................................................
Consumer price/
opportunity cost                                2.01        1.45         1.09         1.06
...................................................................................................
Sales for transport use
Sales 1990                million litres      23,938     473,493      275.235      27,255      799,921
Increase {X) 1991                               4.00X       4.00X        4.00X       2.00X        4.00X
Sales 1991                millIon litres      24.896     492,433      286,244      27,800      831.373
Revenues
Gross revenue               USS million        14.73      206.68        88.70         ?.05      317.15
Producer revenue            USS mIllion         5.89       82.67        35.48        2.82       126.86
Government revenue          USS million         8.84      124.01        53.22        4.23       190.29
User charge revenue         USS millIon         7.40       64.36         7.58        0.38        79.72
.............................................................................................



- 52 -
BOLIVIA                           TabLe 5
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF THE HIGHWAY NETWORK
Paved            GraveL         Earth           Total
YEAR                                km                km              km             km
1975    (SNC's Statistics)          1,166              6,559         29,831          37,556
1977           "    "               1,289              6,798         30,741          38,828
1979           "    "               1,327              6,760         30,741          38,828
1981           of   "               1,395              7,987         30,442          39,824
1983           "    "f              1,538              9,268         30,181          40,987
1985           "    "               1,554              9,850         29,627          41,031
1987           "    '               1,645              9,880         29,910          41,435
1989           "    "               1,776             10,942         28,968          41,686
1991    (New Inventory)             1,584 ()          11,139         28,963          41,636
C*)     Pavement of 192 Km of paved roads disintegrated and downgraded to gravel roads,
due to lack of adequate maintenance.



- 53 -
BOLIVIA                                                   TABLE 6
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CONDITION OF NATIONAL ROAD NETWORK, 1991
GOO          FAIR          BAD    VERY BAD           TOTAL    X BAD OR
km           km            km            km            km    VERY BAD
a) Principal network
.....................
Paved                                 122          775           475                       1,372         34.6
Gravel                                             958         3,100                      4,058          76.4
Earth                                                24          596             -           620         96.1
.................................................................................................
Sub totaL                             122        1,757         4,171                      6,050          68.9
b) Secondary Network
.....................
Paved                                   2           33            55                          90         61.1
Gravel                                 14          601         2,106                      2,721          77.4
Earth                                              214         1,665                      1,879          88.6
.................................................................................................
Sub totaL                              16          848         3,826                      4,690          81.6
c) Feeder Roads
................
Paved                                  35            21           66             -           122         54.1
Gravel                                 35        1,193         3,001           131        4,360          71.8
Earth                                   -          509         4,867        21,088       26,464          98.1
.................................................................................................
Sub total                              70        1,723         7,934       21,219        30,946          94.2
d) Total network
.................
Paved                                 159          829           596             0        1,584          37.6
Gravel                                49         2,752         8,207           131       11,139          74.9
Earth                                   0          747         7,128       21,088        28,963          97.4
.................................................................................................
TOTAL                                208         4,328        15,931       21,219        41,686          89.1
...t..............................................................................................
Percentage of totaL                   0.5         10.4          38.2          50.9        100,0
.................................................................................................
C') Very Bad includes alL roads that cannot be efficiently maintained
due to their geometric conditions and lack of drainage.



- 54 -
BOLIVIA                                               Table 7
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ROAD INVESTMENT PLAN, 1992 TO 1996
SUMMARY
1992/96     1992/96      1992/96
a) By project type            Local        Local        Local     1992/96      1992/96
and funding source              TGN         FFAL        Total     Foreign        Total
a)  Studies                   4,220          200        4,420       9,860       14,280
b)  New Construction         73,301       68,170      141,471     418,001      559,472
c)  Bridges                   8,707            0        8,707            0       8,707
d)  Maintenance               3,500       52,832       56,332      161,440     217,772
e)  Rjral Roads              17,800            0       17,800      14,760       32,560
....... ...............  .......... ........... ............. ........................... ...........................
Total                       107,528      121,202      228,730     604,061      832,791
Percentage
b) By project type
and year                       1992         1993         1994         1995        1996        Totat
a)  Studies                   2,530        5,230        3,420        1,850       1,250       14,280
b)  New Construction         44,999      125,753      121,035     130,673      137,012      559,472
c)  Bridges                     707        2,000        2,000       2,000        2,000        8,707
d)  Mafntenance              52,832       93,065       66,875       5,000             0     217.772
e)  Rural Roads              14,060        3,625        3,625       3,625        7,625       32,560
...............................................................................................
Total                       115,128      229,673      196,955     143,148      147,887      832,791
c) By funding source,
and year                       1992         1993         1994         1995        1996        Total
...... ...................................................
Local funds - TGN            22,359       27,436       23,656      15,424       18,653      107.528
Local funds - FFAL           29,184       29,825       25,794      20,374       16,025      121,202
Sub total local              51,543       57,261       49,450      35,798       34,678      228,730
Foreign                      63,585      172,412      147,505     107,350      113,209      604,061
...............................................................................................
Total                       115,128      229,673      196,955     143,148      147,887      832,791
................................................................................................
Notes:
FFAL Indicates the Fondo Fiducial de Aportes Locales
TGN sgnifics the National Treasury (Tesoro General de la Nacion)



-55 -
BOLIVIA                                  Table 8
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CURRENT REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE OF SNC: 1991 TO 1996
.......................... .......................................... .........
Proj.        Proj.       Proj.         Proj.        Proj.       Proj.
Revenues                                1991         1992         1993         1994         1995         1996
USSm         USSm        USSm         USSm         USSm         usS$n
........... ............................................................................................
Treasury transfers                      17.6         14.5         14.5         16.3        15.6         17.0
Own funds CtolLs)                        8.0         12.1         14.0         13.8         16.0         16.7
Foreign loans
Other
internal loans
Fondo de Finan. de Aporte LocaL (FFAL)
Total                                  25.6         26.6         28.5         30.1         31.6         33.7
......................................................................................................
Proj.        Proj.       Proj.        Proj.         Proj.       Proj.
Expenses                                1991         1992        1993         1994         1995         1996
USSm         USSm        USSm         USSm         USsm         USSm
....ff,................................. 1... ........ 2............12............ 12............ 2..................3
Staff                                   11.4         12.3        12.3         12.3         12.3         12.3
Services                                5.6          4.9          5.0          5.0          5.0          5.0
Materials                                7.0          7.1         7.1           7.5         7.9          8.5
Spare Parts and Tires                    1.6         2.3          4.0          5.3          6.4          7.9
......................................................................................................
Total                                  25.6         26.6         28.4         30.1         31.6         33.7
......................................................................................................
Inflation rate                          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2
Exchange rate (Us per USS)              3.7          4.2          4.9          5.6          6.4          7.4
Notes:
Materials costs assumed to reduce with improved efficiency and contracting as a result of SAM/SAE
Non wage costs of staff assumed to reduce from Box to 50X of staff costs from 1992



- 5h; -
BOLIVIA                                 Table 9
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SNC CURRENT AND CAPITAL REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE, 1985 TO 1990
.............................................................
Revenue                         1985        1986         1987        1988         1989         1990
USSm        USSm         USSm        USSm         US$m         USSm
National treasury               6.6         37.1         28.2        15.4         15.6         45.8
Operating revenue                1.6         5.9          6.5         7.3          7.7          7.7
External funds                 36.8         70.4         51.2        50.8         51.6         38.0
Other revenues                  2.2          5.7          7.5         6.0          0.9          0.4
internal credit                 0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
Financial fund                  0.0          0.0          1.7         7.5          0.8          0.0
...................... ...............................................    ...*.........
Total                          47.1        119.0         95.0        86.9         76.5         92.0
Expenditure                     1985        1986         1987        1988         1989         1990
USSm        USSm         USSm        USSm         USSm         USsm
........... ........................ ...... ... .......... . . .. .. ....
Staff                           3.4          7.4          9.5        10.7          9.5          9.7
Services                        1.6          4.2         11.2         3.2          4.4          4.7
Material                        0.6          3.5          3.7         4.1          6.2          7.1
Investment                     39.4         98.1        63.1         64.6         55.7        70.0
Reserves                        0.0          1.8          5.0         1.1          0.3          0.1
Balance                         2.1          3.9          2.7         3.3          0.4          0.3
...............................................................................................
TotaL                          47.1        119.0        95.0         86.9         76.5         92.0
Maintenance expenditure        1985         1986         1987        1988         1989         1990
US$m        USSm         USSm        USSm         USSm         USSm
Routine                         1.4          3.3         12.7        10.9         11.9          n/a
Periodic                        0.0          0.8         0.6          0.2          0.4          n/a
Improvements                    0.1          0.3         1.5          0.3          1.3         n/a
............................................ ......................................................................... .........................
Total                           1.5          4.4        14.8         11.5         13.6          n/a
Maintenance expenditure        1985         1986         1987        1988         1989         1990
.... ....... . . .. . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . .        .. . . . . . . . . ..
Routine                        93.8%        75.9%       85.6%        95.2%        86.9%         n/a
Periodic                        2.2%        17.2%        4.1%         2.0%         3.3%         n/a
Improvements                    4.0%         6.9%       10.3%         2.7%         9.8%        n/a
...............................................................................................
Totel                         100.0%       100.0%      100.0%       100.0%       100.0%        n/a
Note: Revenues and Costs for 1985 expressed in USS are unreliable because of exceptionally
high inflation and unstable exchange rates.



- 57 -
BOLIVIA                                TabLe 10
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PROJECTION OF COSTS AND EXPENDITURE OF ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE
.......... ..................., ......  ,^...........................
Costs
1996     1997     1998      1999     2000     2001
Activity                   US$m     US$m      USSm     US$m     USSm      US$m
........................... ...................................................... .............. ..............
Maintenance
Routine                     7.5      7.8       8.1      8.3      8.6       8.9
Emergency                   1.1      1.1       1.1      1.1      1.1       1.1
Bridges                     1.3      1.3       1.3      1.3      1.3       1.3
Administration              2.6      2.6       2.7      2.7      2.8       2.8
Periodic                   20.0     35.0      40.0     45.0     50.0      52.7
Subtotal                   32.5     47.8      53.2     58.4     63.8      66.8
Amortization               21.9     21.9      27.0     24.3     21.5      21.5
Counterpart                 0.2
Subtotal                   22.1     21.9      27.0     24.3     21.5      21.5
New Construction
Amortization               62.0     50.2      51.9     51.0     51.0      50.9
Counterpart                19.0     10.0       6.0      7.0      6.0       6.0
Subtotal                   81.0     60.2      57.9     58.0     57.0      56.9
TOTAL COSTS               135.6    129.9    138.1    140.7    142.3    145.2
Investment
New Construction          137.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
TOAL EXPENDITURE          169.5    147.8    153.2    158.4    163.8    166.8
.......................................................................................... .  .
Notes: Total Expenditure includes all capital investment, independently of the financing source.
Maintenance costs exclude SNC current expenditure on new construction.
Investment in new construction is taken from Annex 2.



- 58 -
BOLIVIA                                    Table 11
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
IDA TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECTS, 1978 TO 1990
Credit
Amount          Disbursed
Nurber                      TitLe                             Year        USS million                    %
.. .,.... @. . ..,......................... ............. ............................ ^. .........
0346      First Railway Maintenance Project                   1972                 8.0                 100O
1121     Second RaiLway Maintenance Project                   1974               32.0                   87X
1422     Third Railway Naintenance Project                    1977               30.3                  100X
1423     Civil Aviation Project                               1977                25.0                  95X
1587     First Highway Maintenance Project                    1978               25.0                  100O
1703     Reconstruction and Import Credit 1                   1986                 7.5                  99X
1828     Reconstruction and Import Credit II                  1988                 8.6                  86X
2012     Export Corridors Project                             1988               37.0                   39X
Reconstruction and Import Credit (OECF)             1988                 2.2                  55%
................................................................................................. 
Amounts fop RIC's refer onty to transport Sector cofnponents of credits.



BOLIVIA                                                                Table 12 Ii)
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT.......
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE 8Y CONTRACT      PAVEDO ROA  PROGRAM (1992 - 1995)
LE1IGTHI WIDTH  SURFACE   AAkDT    PROPOSED IERR %    1 99 2             1 993          .19 94          1 9 95      11
C')                      ~~~~~~          ~     ~~I 115$ I  USS  luSS          COST       f1 CDSTI
ALVI EL ALTO-VIACHA                  21.20    7.30  AC          1083     AC        51.20    1,718.218.00                                                    81,048
LPCO  LA PAZ-COTAPATA                38.50    7.30  DST         556      DST       16.60    1,766.607.00                                                    4,5,886
UAVIO VIARNES-NGNERO                 19.60   7.30  AC           1960     AC        28.00    1,848,485.00                                                    94,310
SCO2  SAN ISIDRO-LA PALIZADA          7.19   6.00 AC             156     DST       27.50      383,225.27                                                    53,300
SCG3  LA PALIZADA-ABRA DEL OUJIUE     8.85   8.00 GR***          175     DST       28.30      471.702.88                                                    53,300
SC03 ABUA DEL OWUIE-HATAIlAL         19.46   5.80 OST            175     DST       28.30   1.037,213.33                                                     53,300
SCO4 MATARAL-AGQIA CLARA             26.00   5.80 DS?           235      DST       58.10   1,355,793.76                                                     53,30D
SCO4 AGUA CLARA-MAIRANIA             24.50    5.80  CR          235      DST       58.10    1,305,844.12                                                    53,300
SCOS  TARMA-LA GUARDIA               35.155   6.00  AC          939      SSI       23.30      607,409.00                                                    17,086
II               I~~~~~~OTAL KM. 1200.85 1     I      I                    1 I                      1 I                            1               II 
OJW  OUILLACOLLO-VISTO               4.50    7.30  AC         4002      AC        59.50                        241,218                                     53,604
VISU  VINTO-SUTICOLLO                 8.50   7.30 AC            1620     AC        40.20                        487,544                                     57.358
SUPA  SUTICOLLO-PAROTANI             13.02    7.30 AC           882      AC        38.90                      1,077,063                                     82,724
COPA  PAROTANI-CONfIIAL              78.25    7.30 AC           689      AC        21.50                      6,078,561                                     17,6811
SC08 GUASIRA-KN 24                   24.30   6.00 DST           600      DST       43.10                      2,094,660                                     86,200    '
SCOS KM 24-OKINAVA                   22.74   8.00  EA***        600      DST       43.10                      2,749,853                                    120,926 
ORVI ORURO-VINTO                      5.00    7.00 0ST          1144     DST       86.40                        140.149                                     28,030
VillA  VINJO-NACHACAMACA             26.84    7.00 DST          491      DST       23.00                      1,222.092                                     45 532
SCG9 GUAStRA-NINEROS                 25.92   6.00 OS?           1267     OST       45.80                      2,138,711                                     82,512
SCIO  NINEROS-CIIANE                 16.91   8.00  GR"'*        466      DST       33.80                      2,022,339                                    119,594
5           ~~~~~TOTAL  KM. 1 225.98 1   I       1         1           1        I              I               1              I                II 
£901  COCNABABA-ANGOSTtMRA           14.68    7.00  DST         1841     AC        79.70                                      1,027,600                     70,000
C802 ANGOSIURA-TOLATA                14.74    7.00 DST          1277     AC        50.70                                      1,031,800                     70,000
C803  IOLATA-PARACATA                11.46    7.00 DST          897      AC        33.00                                        802,200                     70,000
RSHU  RIO SECO-HUARINA               56.20    7.00 OST          735      DST       41.40                                      1,967,000                     35,000
mUIi IWARWNA-TIQUINA                 39.00    7.00 OST          335      DST       27.00                                      1,365,000                     35,000
TOTA  TOKTAS-TARIJA                   3.50    7.30  AC          1748     SST       63.00                                         65,800                     18,800
TASA  TARIJA-Cr.SAII GERONIND         5.70    7.30 AC           997      $ST       52.50                                        107,160                     18,800
SAPA  Cr. SAN GEROINIO-PADCAYA       40.00    7.30 AC           324      55?       30.80                                        752,000                     18,800
II              ~~~~~~TOTAL M. 1 85.28 1      1       1        1           1        1              1               I               I               11I
1C804 JPARtACAYA-LA VILLA          55.49 57.00  DST              468      DST       72.0                 1                              5       219,600     40,000
IC£90  Lit V.Lt4-EPIZAXA           179.55  5 5.70  OS?           222     0ST       20.-90                I5                                   3,182,000  540, 000
£506 IEPIZAJIA-POJO               573.80 55.50 OS?               '135    DST       39.90                 I5                                  2,952,000  540, 000 
TOLA  T OtAYA-CLIZA               57.20 I7.30 DST               948      DST       41.10                1I                                     288,000  I40,0005
PARA 5PARACAYA-PUNATA             53.00 5  .00 DST              925      DST       62.90                 I5                                    120,000  540,000
I  I            ~~~~~~TOTAL  KM1. 1169.04 1   1       I        I           I        I              I               S              I                It1
If 0 T A L  G E N E R A I.   5 781.15 5       5       1        5           5        5 10,524,498.36 1 18,252,190.00 1 7,118,560.00 5 6,761,600.00  J5 
() AC    Asphatt Concrete;              DST = Double Surface Treatcnwft;      GR =Grave(            ECA = Earth
I)AC   Asphalt Concrete Overla          DST =Oouble Surface Treatmient;       SST =Singte Surface 7reatment
()Disintegrated DST



BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD NALINTENANCE PROJECT                                                         Table 12 (II)
PERIWIC HAIMTENAT CE BY CONTRACT   PAVED ROAD PROGRM (1992 - 1995)
CoST SUNHMRY BY PROJECT TYPE
i                                          |         FIRST  YEAR                SECOND YEAR               THIRD  YEAR              FOURTT YEAR    |I                          I
I                                          |          1 9 9 2                     1 9 9 3                   1 9 9 4                  1  9 9 5         TOTAL        TOTAL
I                                          I                         I                          I                         I                        I         I                I as
j     DESCRtPTIOV P.I.I. IR --------------------- ----------------------------------------- - ---------
I                                          I    IN           WS      |    ' AU                  I~  KHN    I    W         IlKX   I       SUS       jI KH            SUS      Ij I
IIIi. ..... . .  I…….....…….. ..……I. ... .I. I... ....  ...i.. ...I ..I............ I
I        .,o                                                  s      I                 usK$s                              I K    I        u                         $ u
|A)  OVERLAY RiA  IWPROVCEMET              j 40.80    3.566.703.00  104.27    7,*84.686.0O    40.88 I 2,861,600.00 1              I                   185.95   14.312,689.00 I
3)  SURFACE TREATMENT AND IMPROVEMENT  |124.50 | 6,350.386.36   121.71 1 10,367,504.00    95.20 | 3,332,00D.00 1169.04 1 6,761,600.00    510.45   26,811.790.36
C)  SEALING AlND IIWROVEENT              | 35.55 |   607,409.00 |  0.00 |               0.00 I 49.20        924.960.00 |           |                 84.75  I 1.532,369.00
I                                          j 200.85   10,524.498.36 I 225.98 j 18,252,190.00   185.28    7,118,560.0D 1169.04 1 6,761,600.00    781.15   42,656.848.36
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------.     ------------------------------------------------.......-.---.-...................



BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD MAktNTENANCE PROJECT                                            TabLe 13
PERIODIC NAINTENAICE BY CONTRACT      GRAVEL ROAD NETUORKC
LENGTH  I VIDTHISUFACEIAD            PROPOSED               I    1 9219_93                  1-9.94--        1.99 5
CODE      RO0AD0    SE CTIO                   I 0   ------------            NPROVEHENT--------             ...  .   ..                                 .....
()                 (**)    I ERR~ %  I     US       I      US              u 5             usS
HIMR INA-ACEACACIII               18.00    6.5   CR           330      RGR        43.9      520,320.00
ACIIACACHI-ANCODRA INES           36.05     6.5   GR          200      RGR        86.2      764,870.00
VILLA TtIMARI-ETERAZANA           26.95     9.0   CR          '.9'     RGR       122.2      501,026.00
QUILLACOLLO-BELLA VISTA            8.41     7.5   GR          219      RORt      114.5      141,206.00
SAM NIGUEL-SAN FEARSISCO          29.55     5.0   CR          225      RGR        41.4      567,497.00
LA LOIA-ANONA                     11.52     6.0   GR          229      RGR        16.3      317.844.00
INGENIO MMP-SAN JIOUJII           11.68     3.5   GR          129      RGR        15.8      496,646.00
OKIINAVA-PLIERTO SANEGAS          13.00     6.0   CRt         280      RGR        19.9      522,945.00
CR.RT.4-GUISUSILLAS               30.99     4.0   CR           89      RON        18.2   1,198,718.00
TEXAS-CAIDELAItIA                 21.76     4.5   CR          146      RGR        15.6   1,043,756.00
ANCORAINES-ESCCONA                39.69     6.0   CR          145      RGR        54.7      512,055.00
LA PALIZADA-PUENTE                43.84     3.5   CR          104      RGR        24.4    1,269,375.00
I            ~~~~~TOTAL  KR. 1291.64 1      1       1         I           I        I                1              I               I
EL ALTO-CIACAITATA                10.82     5.0   CR          110      RON        22.1                      254,872.00 
CL.RT.7-PTO.VILLARROEL            26.41    10.0   CR          240      RGR        26.9                      479,837.00 
CitU1T.4-CAPINOTA-IRPA IRPA       26.68     5.5   CR          282      RGR       111.2                      481,052.00
POJO-LINITE DESTEITAL             36.21    8.0   CR           135      RCR        90.4                      701,658.00
NATARtAL-VALLE GNAJIE             52.23     6.0   CR           65      RGR        20.8                      937,879.00
NW RECITAS-SAN NICOLAS            15.98     4.5   ONt         108      RGR        15.6                      591,090.00
CIHITE DISTRITAL-CINIARAPA        23.63     6.5   ON          131      RGR       107.3                      375,261.00
CWIAIAPA-SAK ISIDRO               19.04     5.5   ON          156      RON       179.1                      247,730.00
TAPACRNI-COLONJA SPXl JUAI        13.70    10.0   GR          247      RGR       119.0                      180,511.00
I            ~~~~~TOTAL   KM1. 1224.70 1    I       I         1           1        I               I               I               I
KALLASA-VALENCIA              I14.0 co    5.5    ON            57 I RGR    I39.6 I                                          364,224.0
CR.RT.4-EL PASO               j 495w        55     C    j    338 j    C           77.7                 J199 528:00 I
AWAitAEZ-TARhIU~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  36.00~~~~4  6.0'GR    129     RGR        39.
AIOUILE-EPIZAJIA                 89.00    6.0   CR            110     RGR         74.1                                    1.46:332.00
I            ~~~~~TOTAL  M   1  143.95 1    1       1         I           1        I               I               I               I
I RRO-CAPACNOS-PARIA          121.0         7.      R326               9GR        24.0                                                      546,336.00
AACIIACANARtCA-HIUAINI        1221.00     7.01.  CR   1       217      CRGR       91.6 I                               11 572,352.00
SUARE-YAIARAEZ                529.00 I6.5   CR   I            145      RON        51.1                                 1481,052.00
COUIJA-PCRVENIR               533.00    9.0   GR              299      RGR        27.3                                                    1.150,479.00
I            ~~~TOTAL KN. I105.001                                                                                  
IT 0 T A L  C E M E R A L      j 765.29 I        I       I         I           I        I 7,856,258.00 j 4,249,890.00 52,537,252.00    2,750,219.00
1ONAM  TOTAL                                                                                                                              17,393,619.00
(*)  CR = Gravel               (**) RON  Regravettinig



- 62 -
80LIVIA                                         Table 14 ti)
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
BRIDGE PROGRAM
..............
....................................... ........................................................ --. .......--  -........
BRIDGE           RIVER            ROAD                          ADT    TYPE LENGTH DECK  SPANS TYPE    1992   1993   1994   1995
Cm)    WIDE  (No)    OF  --------------------.-
cm)         WORK          CUSS  x  1000)
................................................................................................ ............................
DISTRICT LA PAZ 0-1
Japones          Desaguadero      Petacamaya-Tambo Quemado          81  PTC      76   3.9    4   M                             78.1
Lipary           Choqueri         La Paz-Rio Abajo                 157  PTC    102   7.3    3   M                3.2
Zona Zone        Zone Zona        Aranjuez-Tahuapalca-Pacuanl    157  MX        3.9     4    1   M                1.8
TahuapaLca                        Aranjuez-TahuapaLca-Pacuani    157   B        175   3.9    1   RP             16.0
Puerto Leon      Quit; Calzon    La Paz-Beni                       228  SS    25.3   4.2    2   NC       16.4
Alto Choro       Choro            La Paz-Beni                      228  SS    28.2   3.8    1   RP              15.3
San SiLvestre    Corolco          La Paz-Benl                      338  SS       14   4.6    1   RP                     11.3
San Pedro        Corolco          La Paz-Beni                      228  SS    37.3   4.2    1   M         5.3
Velo de La Novia Unduavi          La Paz-Chulumani                 186  mX      9.7   6.4    1  M         3.7
Pabon            Tomanpaya        La Paz-Coripata                   29  S8   50.85      3    3   N                      15.9
Villa             Jankouma        La Paz-ChuLumani                 170  MX       28   4.5    1   N
SUB-TOTAL        .........               30.3   36.3   27.2   78.1
................................................................................................. ............................
DISTRICT CHUQUISACA D 2
Rio Grand.       R. Grande        Sucre-Epizana                    340  MX  124.00   3.8    4   M         6.5
Matarat          Mataral          Sucre-Epizana                    119  SS   54.87   3.8    3   M         3.6
Tabacal          Tabacat          Sucre-Epizana                    119  SS   18.29   3.8    1   N         1.5
Zudanez          Zudanez          Sucre-Camiri                      92  SS   29.80   3.4    1   M               10.7
Huerta Mayu                       Sucre-Epiz3na                    119  SS   13.72   3.8    1  N          1.2
Arce (coLgante)  R. Grande        Sucre-Epizar3                    340  MX   82.20   3.0    1   RP                      44.3
Cercado          Cercado          Sucre-Epizana                    118  MX   28.80   3.8    3   N         1.4
Heron            Neron            Sucre-Epizana                    119  MX   18.29   3.8    1  M          1.5
Sucre (colgante) PiLcomayu        Sucre-Potosi                     126  MX  175.00   3.2    1   RH                            127.4
Arquillos                         Sucre-Camiri                      50  MX   29.80   3.4    1   RP       10.0
Acero (Pacheco)  Acero            Sucre-Camiri                      31  MX   62.00   3.8    1   RP              24.1
SUB-TOTAL         .....                  25.8   34.8   44.3  127.4
............................................................................................. ..,,,,,,...........
DISTRICT TARIJA D-3
San Juan de Oro  San Juan de Oro Tarija-Potosi                     115  MX   93.60   4.3    1   RP       42.0
Serene           Serene           Tarija-Villamontes                93  MX   19.00   4.2    1   N                7.3
Canadas          Canadas          Tarija-Viltamontes                93  MX   19.00   4.2    1   RP                      24.4
Isiri             Isiri           Tarija-Villtarnntes               41  MX   22.60   4.0    2   RP                             10.6
Las Carreras     San Juan de Oro Tarija-Potosi                     115  mX   30.70   3.6    1   RP       11.9
SUB-TOTAL         .....                   3.9  7.3  24.4  10.6
................................................................................................. ............................
DISTRICT COCHABAMBA 0-4
Puente Eno       Ene              Cbba. -Ste.Cruz                  884  PTC 110.30  7.00    3   RP                            135.3
Cesarsama        Cesarsama        Cbba.-Sta.Cruz                   884  PTC 148.00  7.00    4   RP                            117.9
Ivivgaurzame      Ivivlgarzame    Cbba.-Sta.Cruz                   884  PTC 157.20  7.00    4   RP    101.6
Sact&            Sacta            Cbba.-Sta.Cruz                   884  PTC 916.00  7.35   20   RP       96.8
Chipirlri        Chipirirf        Cbba. -Trinidad                  235  PTC  36.60  7.00    1   RP              47.6
Sborazama         Bomborazam      Cbba.-Trinidad                   235  PtC  29.00  7.00    1   RP              58.7
Eterazama        Eterazamc        Cbba.-Trlnidad                   235  PTC 137.10  7.00    4   RP              73.0
San Pablo        San Pablo        Cbba.-Trinidad                   235  PTC  25.00  7.00    1   RP                      81.2
Chaquimayu       Chaquimayu       Cbba. -Chapare                  4937  PTC  25.00  7.00    2   RP                      80.3
Lacayani         Laceyani         Cbba.-Oruro                      736  PTC 130.00 10.00    3   RP       29.3
Viloma            Viloma          Cbba.-Oruro                     1734  PTC 270.16  8.00    9   RP              90.0
Copachuncho      Copachuncho      Cbba.- Ste. Cruz                 443  RC   64.25  7.04    5   RP                     141.9
SUB-TOTAL ........................... 227.6  269.3  303.4  253.2
................................................................................................. ..............................................................
TYPE OF WORK                      TYPE OF BRIDGE
B =STONE
RPs REPAIR                        SS =STEEL STRUCTURE
RH. REHABILITATION                SS =SUSPENTION BRIDGE
RC- RECONSTRUCTION                RC .REINFORCED CONCRETE
NC- NEW CONSTRUCTION              PTC-PRESTRESSED CONCRETE
M a MAINTENANCE                    B9 =BAILEY BRIDGE
MX *MIX
......................................................................  .........................................



- 63 -
BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD KAINTENANCE PROJECT                           Table 14 (if)
BRIDGE PROGRAM
................................. ..................................,            --.......................
6RIDGE           RIVER           ROAD                           ADT  TYPE LENGTH  OECK SPANS TYPE    1992   1993   1994   1995
Cm)   WIDE (No)   OF   ............................
(m)        WORK          (USS  x  1000)
.................................................................................................  ...........................................................................,,,
DISTRICT SANTA CRUZ 0-5
Comrapa          Comarapa        Sta.Cruz-Cbba.                  135  RC    45.6   6.9    4   M      99.0
Tiquipatrs       Tiquipaupa      Sta.Cruz-Cbbe.                  156  RC    11.0   8.8    1 M       52.3
La Pascana       Pascans         Sta.Cruz-Cbba.                  156 RC    11.4   6.9    1  M        26.7
El Tambo         El Tambo        Sta.Cruz-Cbba.                  156 RC    11.4   6.9    1  M        26.0
San Isidro       S. Isidro       Sta.Cruz-Cbbs.                  156 RC    52.0   6.9    4   M       122.2
La Palizada      La Palizad      Sta.Cruz-Cbba.                  175  RC    11.4   6.9    1  M               90.5
El Cuilco        Cuflco          Sta.Cruz-Cbbs.                  175 RC    11.4   6.9    1  M                45.5
El Salto         El Salto        Sta.Cruz-Cbba.                  175  RC     8.3   7.7    1  N        18.0
La Hoyada        La Hoyada       Mataral-V. Grande                31 RC    39.0   4.0    3   RP              35.2
Yapacani         Yapacani        Sta.Cruz-Guabira-Cbbs.          822  PTC  702.0   7.0   18  M                     282.7
Chane            Chane           Ste.Crtvz-NMneros               466 PTC   78.9   7.6    3   M                            106.5
Taruws           Pirai           Sts.Cruz-Cbbe.                  279  PTC   90.0   7.3    2   M                           161.8
Las AbeJas       Abejas          Sta.Cruz-Cbba.                 939  RC      7.6   7.2    1  M                      15.5
San Jose         Son Jose        Sta.Cruz-Cbbe.                  939 RC    50.4   7.0    4  H                       75.0
Cuebrada Seca    Ouebrrda Seca   Sta.Cruz-Cbba.                  939  RC    20.0   8.0    1                  88.7
SUBTOTAL        ......... 344.2  259.9  373.1  268.3
.................................................................................................  .......................................................
DISTRICT ORURO D-6
Sarras 11        Barras          Oruro-Turco                      86  PTC  o0.00 4.00    4  M        13.5
Huaraco          Huaraco         Oruro-La 9oz                    883  RC   12.00 12.00    1  1       50.0
Colloom          Colloma         UncIa-Nequeta                    55 RC   55.80  7.30    3   RP                           190.8
Sloe Sic*        Slfe Sica       Oruro-La Paz                    752 RC   45.00 10.00    3  H         0.8
Xars             Kara            Llcom-CalAMnS                    20  RC   14.40  4.00    1  RP      35.6
Katu             Katu            Cer.Cohanl-Canamina              20 NX   18.30 4.00    1  14                 8.0
Arcra            Desaguadero     Oruro-Pisiga                    102 PTC  76.32  4.00    4   RP              39.0
Barras I         Barras          Oruro-Psigsa                    102 PTC  80.00 4.00    4   RP               23.9
CaracoLlo        Caracollo       Oruro-La PaZ                    718 Rt   45.00  4.00    4   RP                     76.0
Machacamarca     Machacassrcs   Oruro-Potosi                     533  PTC 129.00  7.30    5  M        0.9
Tacagua          Tacagus         orwjro-Potosl                   172  PTC  52.00  7.30    2   RP            42.1
Laucs HuachacallaLauca           Oruro-PlsIga                    102  PTC 100.00  4.00    4  M                              9.0
La Joya          La Joys         Caracollo-La Joys               102 PTC  80.00  4.00    4   RP                            13.0
Espanol          Desoguadero    Oruro-Pf6iga                     103  RC   25.00  7.30    1  RP        1.8
Carasilla        Carasilta       Oruro-PisIga                    103 PTC  76.40 3.77    4   RP                       2.0
Colorado         Colorado        Uncia-Pocogt                    103  RtC  43.20  4.00    3   RP                            1.6
SUJ-TOTAL ......    .     ...     . 102.?  113.0   77.9  214.4
...........................................................-.....w.........  ............................
DIStRICT POtOSI 0-7
Hayutombo        mayutrmbo       Potosi-Sucre                    263  RC   42.50  7.00    2   RP      8.1
Chaqufmayu       Chaqulmayu      Potosi-Sucre                    263 RC   64.00  7.00    3   RP       12.8
Negro Twrbo      Negro Tabto     Potoul-Sucre                    263 MX    9.70  7.30    1  RP        2.4
"atac&           Mataca          Cr.Ruta n00-Turuchips            11  SB   80.00  3.00    1  N       39.6
moloa            Molona          Potosl-Tarijs                   150 SS   25.00  3.40    1  RtP    60.0
Ouebrada Honda   0. Honda        Potosl-Ttelj5                    94  CS   25.00 3.40    1  RP        13.1
Ls Torre         La Torre        Potosl-Tarija                    94  CC   25.00  3.40    1  RP      21.8
SIJB-tOTAL          .... . 157.8
............................................................... .................................. ..................... --...... .. 
T 0 T A L                             942.5  720.6  850.3  951.9
...............................................-.-.- --.-.-.---.--..----  -- -....*  -........................
TYPE OF WORK                     TYPE OF BRIDGE
S *STONE
RPm REPAIR                       SS *STEEL STRUCTURE
RH- REHABILITATION               SB mSUSPENTION CRIOGE
RCe RECONSTRUCTION               RC aREINFORCED CONCkETE
NCs NEW CONSTRUCTION             PtCmPRESTRESSED CONCRETE
N * MAINTENANCE                  5B *BAILEY BRIDGE
MX &MIX
...............................................-



64 -
tCLIVIA                                            TabLe 15 CI)
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PROJECTED MAINTENANCE EXPENDITURE BY YEAR AND AGENCY
..,  ----...........................
1992              .1993 ..............199..
a)  Mainteance by Contract           $NC     IDA   Total               SNC     IDA   Total              SNC      IDA   Total
USSE    USSin   USSm              USSI    USa    USsi               USSm    USSm    USSm
PerIodIc maIntenance - Paved         0.0     0.2     0.2               3.5    14.0    17.5              3.8    15.4    19.2
PerIodlc maIntenance   Gravel       0.0      0.2     0.2               0.9     4.0     4.9               1.6     5.8      7.4
........................ .......................................................................    o   .................. I...........    . ....... I................
Sub total Contract                  0.0      0.4     0.4               4.4    18.0    22.4              5.4    21.2    26.6
. ....1992 ....  *--.- 1993 ..... .                                 ..... 1994 .
b)  Ilalnt. by Force Account        SNC      IDA   Total               INC     IDA   Total              SNC      IDA   Total
us45    USSI   USSI               USS     ussIa   USIa             USS      USSm    USSn
Personnel                           12.3     0.0    12.3              12.3     0.0    12.3             12.3      0.0    12.3
TIres                                1.3     0.0      1.3              1.7     0.0      1.7             1.8      0.0      1.8
Fuel and lubrfcants                 6.8      0.0     6.8               6.7     0.0     6.7              6.9      0.0     6.9
Spars parts                          2.0     0.0     2.0               6.5     0.0     6.5              7.2      0.0     7.2
Road materials                       0.3     0.0      0.3              1.4     0.0      1.4              1.6     0.0      1.6
Iiscelltneous                        4.9     0.0      4.9              5.0     0.0      5.0             5.0      0.0      5.0
Sub total Forcet Accowt             27 .6    0.0    27.6              33.6     0.0    33.6             34.8      0.0    34.8
. ..... 1992 ......                -   1993 . -.*--.-.1994 ....
c)  Other project componeita         tNC     IDA   Total               SIC     IDA   Total              INC      IDA   Total
USSm    USSe    USi              USIa   USSe   USIS                USIa    USSm    USSI
............................ .......................... . ...........  ........................    ...............................................
8 idg maintenence                                     0.0              0.3     1.3      1.6             0.2      0.7     0.9
Workshop Cowound ConstructIon                         0.0              0.5     1.2      1.7             0.1      0.3      0.4
Equipsent                                            0.0               0.8     2.0      2.5             0.7      1.4      2.1
Road Safety                                           0.0              0.0     0.0      0.0             0.5      1.1      1.6
Institutlonal strengthenIng                  0.3     0.3               0.0     0.8     0.6              0.0      0.8     0.8
.............................................................................................
Subtotal Other                       0.0     0.3      0.3              1.6     5.1     6.7               1.S     4.3      5.8
Procurentnt Agenefss                                  0.0                       1.0     1.0                      1.2      1.2
total ease Cost                     27.6     0.7    28.3              39.6    24.1,   63.7             41.7    26.7    68.4
.... l1992  ....                  . . 1993  ......                ......   994 . ....
d)  Contingencies                   INC      IDA   *otal               SNC      IDA   total             INC      IDA    total
USIa    USIa    USIa              Ustm   UstI    USa               USIa    USSI    USSI
Physical contingencies                                0.0              0.8      1.8     2.6              1.2     1.?      2.9
Price cortingencles                  0.5     0.2      0.7              1.8     2.$      4.3             3.2      3.6      6.8
.......................................... .                       ........................ ........................
Sub total                            0.5     0.2      O.?              2.6     4.3      6.9             4.       5.3      9.7
TOTAL                               28.1     0.9    29.0              42.2    28.4    70.6             46.1    32.0    78.1
.......................................................................................................................



- 65 -
BOLIVIA                                             Table 15 Ci1
.............
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT-
PROJECTED MAINTENANCE EXPENDITURE BY YEAR AND AGENCY
................................ .............................................. ._
........ 1995 .....                  ...-.1996 ------ .                     ..... 1992/96 .-.
a)  Maintenance by Contract              SNC      IDA   Total                 SNC       IDA   Total                SHC       IDA   TotaL
USSm    USSm    USSnm                USSm    USSm    USSm                 USSm    USSm    USSm
Periodic maintenance - Paved             1.4      5.8      7.2                0.3      1.0       1.3               9.0    36.4       45.4
Periodic maintenance * GraveL            1.1      4.6      5.7                0.1      0.4       0.5               3.7      15.0     18.7
.......................................................                  .................................................
Sub total Contract                       2.5     10.4     12.9                0.4       1.4      l.b              12.7    51.4    64.1
.    - - 1995 .                      ......-1996 .    -.*.1992  ..6...
b)  Maint. by Force Account              SNC      IDA   Total                 SNC       IDA   Total                SNC       IDA   Total
USSm    USSm    USSm                 USSm    USS$M      USSm              USSma    USSm    USSm
..............................................................................................
Personnel                               12.3      0.0     12.3                                   0.0              49.2       0.0    49.2
Tires                                    1.8      0.0      1.8                                   0.0               6.6      0.0       6.6
Fuel and lubricants                     7.3       0.0      7.3                                   0.0              27.7      0.0    27.7
Spare parts                              7.5      0.0      7.5                                   0.0              23.2      0.0    23.2
Road materials                           1.6      0.0      1.6                                   0.0               4.9      0.0       4.9
MIscellaneous                            5.0      0.0      5.0                                   0.0              19.9       0.0     19.9
,.......................................................I.............................  ........................  .................................................
Sub total Force Account                35.5       0.0    35.5                 0.0      0.0       0.0             131.5      0.0   131.5
. ..... 1995 ...... .                ....... 1996 ........ 1992/96.
C)  Ot'her project components            SNC      IDA   Total                 SCi      IDA   Total                 SNC       IDA   total
USSm    USSm    USSm                 USSm    USSm    USSm                 USSrn    USS'm   J55a
Bridge malntenence                       0.2      0.8       1.0                                  0.0               0.7       2.8      3.5
iWorkshop Compound Construction          0.4      1.0       1.4                                  0.0                1.0      2.5      3.5
Equlpment                                0.0      0.0      0.0                                   0.0               1.5      3.4       4.9
Road Safety                              0.0      0.0      0.0                                   0.0               0.5       1.1      1.6
Institutfonal strengthening                       C.8      0.8                         0.1      0.1                0.0      2.6       2.6
......... ................0@...........................................................  ........................  ..................................... ........... 
Subtotal Other                           0.6      2.6      3.2                0.0      0.1       0.1               3.7      12.4     16.1
Procuremnt Agencie                               0.8      0.8                                                     0.0      3.0       3.0
total Bst Cost                         38.6    13.8    S2.4                   0.4      1.5       1.9             147.9    66.8   214.7
1095.    .                  *.--.1996 .*--                      ....1992/96 .-
dl  Contingencies                        6NC      IDA   Total                 $NC       IDA   total                $NC       IDA   Total
USIm    USSm    u$sm                 U6Smm        USIm    US0m            USSm    USSmm    USSm
.......................................................                  ........................              ........................
Physlcal contingencies                   0.5      1.0       1.5                        0.0       0.0               2.5      4.5       7.0
Price contingencies                      4.1      2.3      6.4                         0.1       0.1               9.6      8.7    18.3
......................                                                   ..................... *-. ....-..
Sub total                                4.6      3.3       Y.9               0.0      0.1       0.1              12.1    13.2       25.3
TOTAL                                  43.2      17.1    60.3                 0.4      1.6       2.0             160.0    80.0   240.0
.....................................................................................................  I.........



- 66 -
BOLIVIA                                                 Toble 16
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TINE DISTRIBUTION OF PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY FINANCING AGENCY
................... ........................................ .. .
X of
AGENCY                COSTS                                  1992       1993       1994       199f        1996      Total      Total
usSon      USSm       US         USSm       USSm        USSm
.................................... ............................................................................. .............. ................................ ,,... 
SNC        Basic                                             27.6       39.6       41.7       38.6         0.4      147.9
Physical Contingency                               0.0        0.8        1.2        0.5         0.0        2.5
Price Contingency                                  0.5        1.8        3.2        4.1         0.0        9.6
Sib-total                             28.1       42.2       46.1        43.2        0.4      160.0       66.7X
,................ I...........................................................................................
IDA        Basic                                              0.7       24.1       26.7       13.8         1.5      66.8
Physical Contingency                               0.0        1.8        1.?        1.0        0.0         4.5
Price Contingency                                  0.2        2.5        3.6        2.3         0.1        8.7
Sub-total                              0.9       28.4       32.0        17.1        1.6       BO.0       33.3X
Total      Basic                                             28.3       63.7       68.4       52.4         1.9     214.7
Physfcal Contingency                               0.0        2.6        2.9         1.5        0.0        7.0
Price Contingency                                  0.7        4.3        6.8        6.4         0.1       18.3
Total                                 29.0       70.6       78.1        60.3        2.0      240.0      100.0X
........................... .............................................................  ..........



- 67 -
Table 17 (i)
BOLIVIA                     Page  1
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TENTATIVE LIST OF PACKAGES FOR CONTRACTS
(Periodic Maintenance)
...........................................................................................
LENGTH   COST          FINANCING
YEAR             ROAD SECTION           TYPE            KM   (US$1)       IDA      SNC
..... ........ >w~....................... ~.... ...... ...................................
A) PAVED ROADS
..... ........  ...................... ...........
1     1992 El Alto - Vlacha                   AC            21.2       1.7      1.4       0.3
2     1992 La Paz - Cotapate                  DST           38.5       1.8      1.4       0.4
3     1992 Warnes - Nontero                   AC            19.6       1.8      1.4       0.4
4     1992 Toruma - La Guardia                SST           35.6       0.6      0.5       0.1
5     1992 San Isidro - La Palfzada           DST            7.2       0.4      0.3       0.1
5     1992 La PatIzada - Abra del Quine       DST            8.9       0.5      0.4       0.1
5     1992 Abra del auine - Aguaclars         DST           19.5       1.0      0.8       0.2
5     1992 Mataral - Aguaclors                DST           26.0       1.4      1.1       0.3
5     1992 Nateral - Aguaclera                DST           24.5       1.3      1.0       0.3
Stutotal                                        86.1       4.6      3.6       1.0
6     1993 QuIltlcollo - Vinto                AC             4.5       0.2      0.2       0.0
6     1993 Vinto . suticollo                  AC             8.5       0.5      0.4       0.1
6     1993 Suticolto - Parotani               AC            13.0       1.1      0.9       0.2
6     1993 Parotant - Confital                AC            78.3       6.1      4.9       1.2
Subtotal                                       104.3       7.9      6.4       1.5
7     1993 Cuabira - Km 24                    DST           24.3       2.1      1.7       0.4
7     1993 Km 24 * Okfnaew                    DST           22.7       2.7      2.2       0.5
Stutotal                                        47.0       4.8      3.9       0.9
8     1993 Guabira - Hineros                  DST           26.0       2.1      1.7       0.4
a     1993 NIneros - Chano                    DST           16.9       2.0      1.6       0.4
Subtotol                                        42.9       4.1      3.3       0.8
9     1993 Oruro - Vinto                      DST            5.0       0.1      0.1       0.0
9     1993 Vinto - Nachaurca                  DST           26.8       1.2      1.0       0.2
Subtotol                                        31.8       1,3       1.1      0.2
10     1994 Cochbamba   Angostura              AC            14.7       S.0      0.8       0.2
10     1994 Angosturs  Tolata                  AC            14.7       1.0      0.8       0.2
10     1994 Tolat. . Partcay                   AC            11.5       0.8      0.6       0.2
Stbtotal                                        40.9       2.8      2.2       0.6
11     1994 Rio Seco - Nuarina                 DST           56.2       2.0      1.6       0.4
11     1994 Huarinn * Tiqulno                  OST           39.0       1.4      1.1       0.3
Subtotal                                        95.2       3.4      2.7       0.7



- 68 -
Table 17 (i)
BOLIVIA                    Page  2
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TENTATIVE LIST OF PACKAGES FOR CONTRACTS
(Periodic Nalntenance)
,..........................................................................................
LENGTH   COST          FINANCING
YEAR            ROAD SECTION            TYPE            KIM   USSN)       IDA      SNC
................................. .................................................................. 
12     1994 Tomats- Tarija                     SST            3.5       0.1      0.1       0.0
12     1994 Terija - S.GeronImo                SST            5.7      0.1       0.1       0.0
12     1994 S.Geronfmo - Paracaya              SST           40.0      0.8       0.6       0.2
Stutotal                                        49.2       1.0      0.8       0.2
13     1995 Paracaya - to Villa                DST            5.5      0.2       0.2       0.0
13     1995 La Villa - Epizana                 DST           79.6      3.2       2.6       0.6
13     1995 Eplzana  Pojo                      DST           73.8      3.0       2.4       0.6
13     1995 Tolata . Cl2za                     DST            7.2      0.3       0.2       0.1
13     1995 Paracaya - Punta                   DST            3.0      0.1       0.1       0.0
s3btotal                                       169.1       6.8      5.5       1.3
1992/95 Total                              AC           186.0     14.2      11.4      2.8
1992/95 Total                              DST          510.6     26.8      21.5      5.3
1992/95 Total                              SST           84.8      1.6       1.3      0.3
1992/95 GRAND TOTAL                                     781.4     42.6      34.2      8.4



- 69 -
Table 17(i)
BOLIVIA                    Page  1
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TENTATIVE LIST OF PACKAGES FOR CONTRACTS
(Periodic MNantenance)
LENGTH   COST          FINANCING
YEAR            ROAD SECTION           TYPE            KM   (USSN)       IDA      SNC
..........................................................................................
O) GRAVEL ROADS
.................................
I     1992 Vitt Tunari- Eterazama             OR           27.0      0.5       0.4      0.1
1     192  uiltecolto - Bella Vista           OR            8.4      0.1       0.1      0.0
1     1992 S. Miguel - S. Francisco           GR           29.6      0.6       0.4      0.2
1     1992 La Lome   Aroma                    GR           11.5      0.3       0.2      0.1
Subtotal                                        76.5      1.5      1.1       0.4
2     1992 Ingenfo Mors - S. Joaquin          GR           11.7       0.5      0.4      0.1
2     1992 Okinaws - Puerto Banegas           OR           13.0       0.5      0.4      0.1
2     1992 Madrecitas - San Nicoles           BR           16.0       0.6      0.5      0.1
Subtotal                                        40.7      1.6       1.3      0.3
3     1993 PoJo - Limite Distrital            GR           36.2       0.7      0.5      0.2
3     1993 Limite Distritel - Comerape        BR           23.6      0.4       0.3      0.1
3     1993 Comerape  - S. Isidro              BR           19.0       0.2      0.2      0.0
Subtotel                                        78.8      1.3       1.0      0.3
4     1993 Huarine - Achacachl                OR           18.0       0.5      0.4      0.1
4     1993 Achecachl - Ancoraimes             BR           36.1       0.8      0.6      0.2
4     1993 Ancoraimes - Escomc                BR           39.9      0.5       0.4      0.1
4     1993 El Alto - Chocaltays               BR           10.8       0.3      0.2      0.1
Subtotal                                       104.8      2.1      1.6       0.5
5     1993 La Paltzede * Puente Tapers        GR           U3.8       1.3      1.0      0.3
6     1993 Cruce Ruts 7 . Puerto Villariotl BR             26.4       0.5      0.4      0.1
6     1993 Cruce Rule 4 -Irps Irp             BR           26.7       0.5      0.4      0.1
Subtotal                                        53.1      1.0      0.6       0.2
7     1994 Ycpecenl * Colonla S. Juabi        CR           13.7      0.2       0.2      0.0
7     1994 Neteral * Vallc Grands             OR           52.2      0.9       0.7      0.2
7     1994 Cruce Ruto 4 * QuIrusilles         GR           31.0       1.2      1.0      0.2
7     1994 ;exss * Condetlrts                 GR           21.8       1.0      0.8      0.2
Subtottl                                       118.?      3.3      2.7       0.6
6     1994 MalIeas  - Velencle                GR           14.0      0.4       0.3      0.1
a     1994 Cruce Rute 4 * El PoJo             CR            5.0       0.1      0.1      0.0
8     1994 Af qultc - Eplamna                 CR           89.0       1.5      1.2      0.3
Subtotal                                       108.0      2.0       1.6      0.4
9     195 Oruro - Paris                       CR           21.0       0.5      0.4      0.1
9     1995   chctemrcs * Huarnuni             CR           22.0      0.6       O.S      0.1
Subtotal                                       43.0       1.1      0.9       0.2



- 70 -
Tabte 17 (ii)
BOLIVIA                       r'ry-
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TENTATIVE LIST OF PACKAGES FOR CONTRACTS
(Periodic laintenance)
.. ................ ....................................   ,  .........."......
LENGTH   COST            FINANCING
YEAR              ROAD SECTION             TYPE             KM   (USSR)         IDA       SNC
......................................._.................
10      1995 Yaqraez - TarabLco                    GR             36.0       0.5        0.5       0.1
10     1995 Sucre - Yanparaez                      GR             29.0       0.6        0.4       0.1
Subtotal                                            65.0        1.1       0.9       0.2
11      1995 Cobija - Porvenir                     OR             33.0       1.2        1.0       0.2
1992-95 TOTAL                          765.4       17.5      13.9        3.6



- 71 -
BOLIVIA                             Table 18
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ALLOCATION OF IDA CREDIT PROCEEDS
Amount of the              X of
Credit allocated           Expenditure
Project conponent                                    in USS equivalent          financed
...............................................................................................................
f)   Periodic maintenance          (Paved network)            36,400,000                       80X
ii)  Periodic maintenance          (Gravel network)           15.000,000                       80X
iv)  Bridge maintenance and rehabilitatfon                     2.800,000                       80X
v)   Work compoumd construction                                 2.500,000                       70X
vI)  Equipment (rehabilitatIon)                                 2,100.000                       70X
vfi) Equipment (acquisition) & Road Safety Program    2,400,000                                10X of foreign expenditures
viii)Institutional Strengthenfng (Tech. Ass)                    2,600,000                     100O
Ix) Procurement Fees                                          3,000,000                      100X
x)   Unallocated                                               13,200,000
................................... .........................................................................................
TOTAL                                                         80,000,000
....................................................................................
Source: Missfon estimates
July 1991



- 72 -
BOLIVIA                                               Table 19
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF IDA DISSURSEMENTS
DfsburSed In              Cumulative
Quarter                Dfbureemients           Cuwulative
USSI,    USS*                 USS.                  X
FY 1993
Septeaber 30, 1992                0.0                          0.0                0.0O
*-    Decenber 31, 1992                  6.0                         6.0                7.5K
March 31, 1993                     2.0                         8.0               1O.OX
June 30, 1993                     4.0      12.0               12.0               15.0K
FY 1994
Septeaber 30. 1993                4.0                         16.0               20.0K
Deceffber 31, 1993                 5.6                        21.6               27.0X
March 31, 1994                    6.4                         28.0               35.0X
Jium  30. 1994                    6.4      22.4               34.4               43.0X
FT 1995
September 30, 1994                6.4                         40.8               51.0X
DecOmber 31, 1994                 6.4                         47.2               59.0X
March 31, 1995                    6.4                         53.6               67.0X
June 30, 1995                     5.6      24.8              59.2                74.0X
FY 1996
September 30, 1995                5.6                         64.8               81.0K
Decerber 31, 1995                 4.0                         68.8               86.0K
March 31. 1996                    3.2                         72.0               90.0K
June 30, 1996                     2.4      15.2               74.4               93.0X
FY 1997
September 30, 1996                2.4                         76.8               96.0X
December 31, 1996                  1.6                        78.4               98.0X
March 31, 199?                    0.8                         79.2               99.0X
Jurm  30, 199?                    0.8       5.6               80.0              100.0X
........................................................................................
total                                   80.0     80.0
Loan eignIng date:                           July 1992
Loan effectivenes:                           October 1992
Project completiont                          December 31, 1996
Loan Closing Datet                           JUne 30, 1998
........................................................................................
** InCtUdbr fnltlt deposit tO SPCCIat AcCOUne *nd retroaCtlve fir nCIn9



t I'-3'
............  ............................... L............................. .... .................%.......   1 .11    ......  .  ......
* 1t.
.a      uIaos,uIg      I      uivuwuii                  211A131116   I                         213.111
E3~ ~I.                                          .Jga
I ~~~~~~111. i                     ~     ~    ri~USIf  1
1I fl11 |U                                                       t9w
1'JIEUZlUU13I3S         UO 31UJ311
tOItUZINVD10   sellnuo u3u  sIntZ  n"ff GUOIXU  * UOUr
lfillimsies                              l~~I     =a nuin
~~~~~3~~~~3H18 N.m.........
(ow aL%iz t i iI.113o3a 3uos3al
14013UZ114139I1    G33&1nVNOU3U  '11AID   n   cu Ilo1jivaiunwooI4   .UOdSMUIII SO  AULS.INRU



ORGANIZATION OF THE NATIO1n  HIGHAY SERVICE
TECIINICAL       j
I       COUNSEL
I  umel        n            "I       c.....,   1c415u-1u-
[= t+_ ~~~~~~~~............
IsmW~~~~~
i,,,,,,l illmmWl                                              VAN=
I  *u it I              II   ws 
w.I
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 11  1i  SU CD   I                                            I    .HI 9.
LIZ-1~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _             *  * .ICVLS
DWSNIUX3SIIVI2AEMI9U IUII
r    UU3 W             16  EI
SRICTS   I 
M
~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                       S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P



co                                                    to T
a                          -; 
d r         aZ   a-       S. ....               .        ........
-4      C.,Vt                                                ..   ...  .
^"'~C             ,     C                      ,.                     _
_. X.....a....   m
*  II  .     ,   ....       ...... _
__ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     a   - .   ..       -_



tIZMZ4mU1I                     LaZo-.gZ
wWmr.6aMEbmW w-u-wm -
I
I              C
*                      a..
I              C"
*       I.
a
_________________                 ii
*       aa
nsu
* pg     ii
I              C
*                      I               zj
*                      I
Ii                 -  -.                I!  
a.
* a. -
*         ,
*         a
*         S
- -* . . - n.e. -  *                     - - -
i's-I
*                                             1'1  b
*                I ,
*                      a
*                       4b4
*                      *
*                      *                -
*                                       z-
-.
I                'WI                         0.-
*                      ZN
a..
N                    L*2
a-                            20        2
140  -
-I                                   I
I
*                I
*                I
*                S
a    S
-- -                *                6
*                I
*                I
*                a
a                C
2
14W
iU I4
- St -



Char: XV
- 76
BASiC ORGOAIZATIONt OF THE
DEPARTAMENTAL DIRECTORATE OF ROADS
P U B L I C         UJ  XS
1.. ,........ ILRR
HORNS.  .ID~~~~CUNEL.TN~
I  CU T I  El
I R E C T 0 a
1111
DIUISION
P1q
AND l T  ,                           j     E
rm"sxHcNTUCIO              OAItDlUTt



BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD HAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule (1992-1995)
......................
;a  ;...aiedic ltFing;     *- -      ... ...-.-         ....- .........
*     Cattact hewe  b  coias  )     a                                                                 , a                             a                               a
1) SD                                                       a                                 a                               a                                         a
*      1)  asa                        j       j               :
a            113 £up.rvIeIa          a |             *    a                                                                                                  a               I:***-***@**-******we*.**-9 ................................i- ..   
:8.      rt,odlc Ibtctmunco by
Ceatract (Gravel *ztv""k)    8
I) IDa
a            (t) Morke                      I       I
a          (11) Kaase.11tg          a       Il                                                Iuu                                                                               a  *    *-@-s--**s"*****§|***************** 
a    111 IN    prv5~              
aC.   PrtlJdic   bytforce bp        a                               a                                 a-a----
a.   Contrsc (CrmOLas si leLvoak                                                                                                       
a           (1) Mat aehabilitat              I       I       I      a                                            *        *
by CI  Iaaprllu                a                                                                                                                                        
a     C      (1)oesc Ma<rks         a       c       on  _--- ..e..,s..,.s..e.e...e.e.m.e.m.e ,...se.sa ..e..e ................*s   _._ a...........................  
*         (111)                                                     * Saavoflta  a fi
DC.   (I.tsaaec  bt  =tC A          a                                                                                                                                          a
rG.    B"d S_ft                                                                                                                                                      '
aD.   3tdreBadntsns ssd                                        I j l  a                 I        a       I                       '       I 1  |                            a
a tssw testieraeg 
I                                   a  "                            a                                 a                               a                              a          a
G. safety lapevsete
*                 ,                                                 a                                 a                               a                              a    ,     a   lNf
00 0)



ea.
0
CD             .  r,""*4 Z"*@                                               *@""""4 *"                                                    I            I           I              *            I           I            I                         *S3))1-11I Suisf (1-)    8
I * I l"@4| $""44.............@..................................  .@@6.w@,@. ............ ................................ @.@. ...... 4.4.X.X.................................III* | ^1jtX 
I|| S6***SSSSS4SSS@SSSU6405IS~64                                          600 S39g66eeZ@S*66@8**U*OSWS5V6SS4@SS5S@3*WS5S*6*046                                                        I   !                    I                    z n3~   (*)an                 *tX
1 ......                                                                    I                                                                                                            I . .... ........ ..l.t     a                                                           ) 
*                                                        0                                                    0                                                     *                                                  a                                                          Ila 1  
'. '   .                .                       1            '             1           I            I            * ..............  I. 2 I                              'I                                                 *           I     p       b nUi          U li        ae  1
*           I              |            | I  I S  IIn lI^selxS  l3°l1Xlts1inl                                                           t 
..........   ............                                                                                                                                                                                   ............  .....................................,,, 
:I            31                                                                                                                     .....PA                                   .............
1  *  I  I  I  *    1           I            I            S             l..,,.....e.shu..4.....au.                           I           I            I            *            *irnm~~~~~o*................
tssst-tsg) lasp *| vqSaIolu@esldel 3*DgOX
a:o*t 3 S            AIv au a                 s
I  S                             S                                                   6                                                     8                                                  8                         6*0001 515 *~*"lw



- 79 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Transvort Administration
Ministry of Trans ort. Communications and Civil Aeronautics
1.       Primary responsibility for planning in the transport sector rests
with the Ministry of Transport, Communications and Civil Aeronautics (MTC).
However, effective responsibility for determining the sector investment level
is vested in the Ministry of Planning and Coordination (MP). It is the MP
which recommends to the Congress how the treasury funds, on which all
operational Ministries depend, should be allocated. Final responsibility for
budget allocation is that of the Congress.
2.       The Ministry of Transport, Communications and Civil Aeronautics has
responsibility for the management of the transport and communications sector,
including all land transport modes and civil aviation, but excluding sea,
maritime and river transport that are under the Ministry of Defense. It has
responsibility for the management of the principal transport agencies - the
national highways agency (SNC), the railway authority (ENFE), the national
airports authority (AASANA), the national airline in which the state has a
majority interest (LAB), the national telecommunications company (ENTEL) and
the post company.
3.       Until recently, the Ministry had three sub-secretariats, one for
planning, one for transport and one for communications. A fourth sub-
secretariat was added when the MTC assumed responsibility for civil aviation,
but in line with government policy for reducing the size of the public sector,
the Subsecretariat of Planning was eliminated and its responsibilities
distributed among the remaining three subsecretariats. There is now a
director of planning within the Subsecretariat of Transport, with
responsibility for control of projects and planning in the transport sector.
4.       The organizational diagram of the Ministry (see Chart I) indicates an
over bureaucratized structure, with more administrative than operational
general directors. The Ministry lacks qualified and experienced professional
staff and is unlikely to remedy this deficiency unless the salaries are more
competitive with the private sector. The current Economic Management
Strengthening Operation (EHSO), in which 600 public service positions will
receive salary supplements, does not include the MTC, so the position of its
salaries relative to other ministries will deteriorate rather than improve.
5.       As the role of the public sector is changing in Bolivia, with a
marked reduction in state intervention in activities in which commercial
interests, so the role of MTC will also change. The state enterprises whose
activities are presently managed by the MTC are being given more operational
and financial responsibility, as evidenced by the implementation of operating
agreements (Acuerdo Programas) with many of them. These agreements specify



- 80 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
the respective managerial and financial responsibilities of the Ministry and
the companies, and provide targets for the company'e financial performance. A
similar agreement is scheduled to be made later this year with SNC. A further
move towards even less state intervention will come with privatization. A
start is being made with the Government proposing to sell all or part of its
majority ownership in LAB.



-81-                        ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 7
BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD HkINTENANCIJ PROJECT
Road Investment Plan
The Six Year Investment Plan
1.   The Investment Plan (1992 to 1996) agreed vith the Government propose the
following expendituret
New                     Mainte-     Rural
Studies      Construction        Bridges      nance      Roads   Total
US$000            US$000        US$000       US$000    US$000      US$m
1992      29530         44,999           707        52,832     14,060  115,01
1993      5,230        125,753         2,000        93,065     3,625 229,673
1994      3,420        121,035         2,000        66,875    3,625  196,955
1995      1,850        130,673         2,000         5,000     3,625 143,887
1996      1,250        137,012         2,000             0     7,625 147,887
___________ _________________________________________________________    ________e
Total    14,280        559,470        8,707      217,772    32,560  832,791
2.         A very high proportion of the Plan io expected to be financed by
International institutional and bilateral loans.   The expected financing
structure of the Plan is shown in the following Table. TON signifies direct
treasury funding and FFAL signifies funding from a special IDB fund, whose
operations are described in detall In paragraphs 6 to 8:
------National-----
Foreign     TGN         FFAL       Total      Foreign
US$m       US$m         US$m       US$m           2
Studie,           9.86        4.22        0.20      14.28        69.0
New const. A    418.00       73.30       68.17    559.47         74.7
Bridges              0        8.70           0       8.70           0
Maintensnce      161.44       3.50       52.83    217.77         74.1
Rural roads      14.76       17.80           0      32.56        45.3
--en ---..--a--_-------_--_---------------e-------a---- ---- e-----c a --
Total           604.06      107.53      121.20   8P%79          72.5
3.         The Plan Is based on a list of all planned projects, prepared by NTC.
The phasing of the proposed projects has been determined so th2t the funding
requirements are compatible with projections of what is likely to be available
over the next five years. The Inveostment Plan will be revised annually, to take
account of progress In the Implementation of current projects and changes in the
macro-economic environment that could influence the investment finance available
for highways.



- 82 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 7
4.          The constraints taken into account in determining the phasing of
projects are:
i)          that future debt obligations arising from foreign funding of projects
should not exceed the amounts which the Ministry of Planning considers desirable
ii)      that the requirement for local counterpart funds should not exceed the
amounts which the Ministry of Planning expected to be available during the period
of the Plan
iii)        that the planning and management capacity required to supervise the
projects in the Plan should not exceed SNC's management capacity, and
iv)         that the Plan should include all projects already in execution and
all projects for which funding has already been committed,
5.          It was assumed that the capacity of the national construction would
not be a constraint. If the capacity of the national construction industry were
to be insufficient to construct the planned projects, additional capacity would
be available from neighboring countries. Brazilian companies in particular have
made an important contribution to the national construction capacity in the past
and are likely to have sufficient excess capacity to repeat the contribution
during the next five years, should it be needed.
Counterpart funds
6.          There are two sourcee of finance for counterpart funds, - current
revenues of the national treasury and the FFAL (Fondo Fiducial de Aportes
Locales). The latter is a fund generated from IDB projects where there is a
difference between the interest rate and amortization period of loans from the
IDB to the Government and the terms of lending loans to borrowing institutions.
The difference between the repayments of the two sets of loans forms a fund, from
which soft term loans (15 years amortization, including a five years grace period
and five per cent interest) can be used to finance the counterpart component of
IDB loans.
7.          The SNC has been and is expected to be the principal user of this
facility. Deposits in FFAL have amounted to more than US$107 million, of which
about US$57 million is outstanding in loans for counterpart funding of IDB
projects. By the end of the Plan period, the FFAL is expected to receive further
receipts, to provide a total of available funds of about US$235 million, whereas
committed future loan allocations, apart from projects included in the proposed
Plan, amount to less than US$1 million. The availability of this fund for IDB
projects greatly reduces the impact of counterpart funding requirements on the
treasury's current account resources during the implementation period of a loan,
since onlv the amortization costs of the loans from FFAL need to be funded, not
the full amount of the counterpart portion of the project costs. In the long
term, the net present value of the financing cost of the counterpart funding will
be little changed if the interest rate charged on FFAL loans is similar to the
rate available on governme.t deposits,  since the balance of the PFAL is
considered to be part of the national reserves. By similar reasoning, use of the



- 83 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 7
FPAL funds to finance road infrastructure projects will reduce the level of the
national financial reserves from which they are taken. However, the amounts are
not sufficient to cause problems.
8.          The following table shows the projected amortization costs (in US$
millions) of FFAL loans to SNC, and the costs of direct treasury funding of the
counterpart portion of non IDB projects included in the proposed Plan.  The IDB
has not yet agreed to finance all of the projects assigned to it in the Plan.
Should they decide not to finance any particular project or projects, the
counterpart funding from the treasury will need to increase the full amount of
the counterpart funding of these project or projects.  Although the annual
investment cost of the proposed Plan reaches a maximum of three times the 1991
budgeted investment cost, the call on treasury funds for counterpart funding
reaches a maximum 12% above the 1991 level. The Plan is now being reviewed by
the ministries of Planning and Finance to see if this level of funding is
feasible.
Year        1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     Total
US$m     US$m    USSm      US$m     US$m     US$m     US$m
FFAL           1       29       30       26       20       16    122
Treasury      16       17       14        4        3        4      58
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Total         17       46       44       30       23       20     180
------_---------------------------------------------------------------_
Foreirn debt obliRations
9.          With few exceptions, the whole road construction program is financed
with foreign aid or grants. This allows Bolivia to undertake many infrastructure
projects which would otherwise be impossible because of the lack of finance. In
many cases, such as loads from IDA, Bolivia foreign funding generally involves
long amortization periods, low interest rates and long grace periods.
10.        Less than 5% by value of projects are financed entirely from national
sources. The principal source of finance in the past has been IDB. Although the
dominance of this source is projected to continue in the future, it will be less
marked than in the past. It is expected that IDB might provide up to 58% of the
foreign funding, Spain 20%, FONPLATA 9%, IDA 7%, Japan 4X and various other
sources making up the remaining 2%. All sources other than FONPLATA provide soft
loan terms, but is also unlikely that more than 20% of IDB's funding will be on
soft terms. The following table shows the expected foreign investmeut required
during the five-year implementation period of the Investment Plan.
Year        1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     Total
US$m     US$m    US$m    US$m       US$m     US$m     US$m
Plan         46       63      172      147      107      113      604



- 84 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 7
11.         The principal debt obligation constraint will not occur in the next
five years, as the majority of finance from international and bilateral sources
is available to Bolivia on concessionary terms, which provide for an initial
grace period, approxzimately equivalent to the project construction period, with
lower interest rates and no capital repayments. The principal constraint comes
some five years after the start of a new investment cycle, when capital
repayments and full interest payments Gtart. The Investment Plan provides for
the next peak of loan repayments to approximately coincide with the termination
of loans from the peak of an earlier investment cycle (that of the late 1960'8).
12.         The next table shows the projected debt repayments, interest and
capital, (in US$ millions) of current loans for road projects and the projected
schedule of debt repayments for loans implicit in the Investment Plan.
Year        Current     Planned            Total
Loans       New loans         obligations
US$m        US$m              US$m
-----------------------------------------------------------
1990        32            0                32
1991        43            0                43
1992        43            6                49
1993        50            8               58
1994        57            8                65
1995        52            8                60
1996        51           11               62
1997        48           11               59
1998        45           17               62
1999        45           17               62
2000        45           18                63
2001        45           46                91
2002        42           49                91
2003        36           52                88
2004        34           53                87
----------------------------------------------------------
13.         The repayment requirements in 1991 for current loans (which have a
total value of more than US$650 million) amount to about US$43 mlllion, and will
peak at about US$57 million in 1994 before beginning to decline as some of the
earlier loans are completely amortized. The repayment schedule for the Plan will
require US$17 million in 1998 and 1999, then increase quickly to US$53 million
by 2004. The total debt obligation in respect of highways projects will peak at
US$91 million in 2001 and 2002.
14.         The total treasury obligation is made up of the counterpart funding
requirements and the foreign debt obligation, including that still outstanding
from previous loans. The total obligation during the next flive years is shown
in the following Table. The peak requirement in 1994 will be US$89 million. The
increased capital financing requirement to the roads sector will be offset by the
funding of all current maintenance costs from user charges.



- 85 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 7
Year        Counterpart Foreign Debt
funding     Repayments  Total
US$m        US$m        US$m
-----------------------------------------------------
1992        22          49          71
1993        27          58          85
1994        24          65          89
1995        15          60          75
1996        19          62          81
-----------------------------------------------------
Total      107         294          401
15.         The total debt obligation will be a significant but manageable burden
to the TGN. Its impact in the year 2002, measured in terms of a percentage of
GDP, will be reduced to about its 1992 level when GDP increases of 4% per year
and inflation also of 42 per year are taken into account.
SuRervision caDacitY of SNC
16.         SNC is currently supervising a program of about 17 projects with a
total investment value of less than US$150 million, whereas the Plan will
involve a peak of about 24 projects with a total value of about US$ 420million.
The supervision capacity required to manage an investment plan is more closely
related to the number of contracts which must be managed at any time, and so is
also related to the total value of the plan, more than to the number of projects.
If the average value of each contract remains at or about the current level, the
managerial capacity of SNC will need to increase by more than 2502.
17.         SNC will provide a revised structure and staffing proposal which
takes account of the projected work load in respect of supervision of the
Investment Plan. Under the Export Corridors Project, MTC has requested funds for
the implementation of an information system to help in the management of all
investment projects in the transport sector.   The largest part of this
information system will be devoted to management and supervision of the road
investment plan. This system will be compatible with the requirements of the
Ministry of Planning and will help to integrate the physical (MTC) and financial
(HP) aspects of project supervision.
18.         The implementation of these information systems will greatly increase
the capacity of SNC in respect of project supervision, but will require a change
in the staffing structure, with more qualified engineers and fewer unqualified
administrative personnel.   These charges will be reflected in the revised
staffing structure to be provided by SNC. The change to a computerized project
information system and the implementation of a staffing structure which takes
explicit account of the magnitude of the supervision task, will provide
supervision capacity compatible with the management task implicit in the
Invoetment Plan.



- 86 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 7
Content of the Investment Plan
19.         The Plan will require a total investment of US$833 million over the
five year period. The annual average investment will be US$167 million, with a
maximum of US$230 million in 1993, compared with an budgeted investment of US$63
million in 1991. The following table shows the total annual investment indicated
in Plan:
Year         1992     1993     1994     1995      1996     Total
US$m     US$m     US$m     US$m     US$m     US$m
-------------------------------------------------------------------__
Plan          115      230      197      143        148      833
Although the Plan will require a large increase in total investment, only a small
proportion of the total investment cost represents an immediate call on treasury
fundo.  Treasury funding will be required for two purposes, to provide the
counterpart requirements and to service the overseas debt. Most of the increase
in 1992, 1993 and 1994 is for already committed projects.
20.         The structure of the plan is less concentrated on new construction
(67.1) than in most countries at a similar stage of the Bolivian development.
This is reflection of the inclusion of two large maintenance projects, the
reconstruction of the access roads to the new Santa Cruz to Cochabamba highway
and this Project. Once the projects are completed, necessary capital expenditure
on reconstruction will reduce to a minimum and be replaced by adequate current
expenditure on routine maintenance.
21.         Less than 2Z of the total cost is allocated to studies, including
feasibility studies. This partially reflects previous expenditure on feasibility
studies for projects which could not so far be financed, but could also indicate
a need to increase expenditure on this item towards the end of the Plan period.
22.         Total planned investment on rehabilitation and reconstruction is
US$218 million, an average of US$43 million per year but with a concentration in
1992 and 1993 with expenditures of US$93 million and US$67 million respectively.
This peak is a consequence of the coincidence of peak expenditure on the two
major maintenance projects.  These two projects will result in the complete
reconstruction of the paved network and for all justifiable reconstructions of
the gravel road network.   Once they are completed, the need for capital
expenditure on maintenance will reduce until the next cycle of periodic
maintenance. Thie reduced need is reflected in the low level, less than US$5
million, of investment maintenance expenditure scheduled for 1995 and 1996.
23.         Most bridge reconstruction is included in the specification of sub
projects forming part of this Project. A further small expenditure, less than
1Z of the total, is included in the Plan for reconstruction of bridges on links
not included in the Project. Rural roads expenditure depends to a large extent
on bilateral financing, especially from the United States and Japan.  These
projects amount to 4% of the total proposed investment.   The considerable
investment in equipment for rural road construction is financed exclusively by
foreign grants and does not feature in this Investment Plan.



- 87 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 7
24.         Tables 1 and 2 provide details of all the projects included in the
Plan. The Table is divided inuo six parts. Table 1 provides a summary of the
information found in Table 2.  It shows the allocation of funds between the
different types of project and indicates the distribution of costs by year and
by financing source.   Tables 2(i) through 2 (ix) show:   i) the effect of
including the full cost of the FFAL funds instead of just the interest charges;
ii) a summary of the total counterpart funds needed for each already committed
project; iii) new studies; iv) and v) currently committed projects; vi) as yet
uncommitted new construction projects; vii) specific bridge projects; viii)
maintenance projects, and: ix) rural road projects. Table 3 shows the FFAL
interest charges for projects which IDB have already agreed to finance.
Summary
25.         The Investment Plan provides a feasible basis for future road
development in Bolivia. Sufficient funds are allocated to periodic maintenance
and the proposed increase in routine maintenance should avoid the need for
unscheduled early reconstruction of the roads whose reconstruction is included
in the Plan. All of the current commitments for foreign funding are included in
the Plan, but some of them are deferred to later than originally envisaged
because of *the lack of counterpart funds and the limits to SNC's project
management capacity. By the end of the Plan period, the paved network will have
increased by more than 750 km, or by more than 402. The counterpart funding
requirement is within the treasury's capacity and the long term debt liability
of the roads sector will have reverted to its 1992 level by 2004.



- 88 -
ANNEX 2
BOLIVI                                                            Table I
SECOND ROAD NAINTLNANCE PROJECT
ROAD IMVESTH1T PLAY, 1992 TO 1996
1992196     1992/96      1992196                           Percents8e
a) By projeect type          Local        Local        Local     1992/96      1992196  by project
*ud fuudlSg soureo             TON         FFAL        Totol    Foreign         Total        type
S '000    US$ '000    US$ '000    U$ '000    U$ '000                 2
______._.....................__............................
a)  Studies                  4,220           10        4,230       9,860       14,090         2.02
b) NMw Construction          73,301       3,409       76,710     418.001      494,711        68.9S
el  Bridges                   8,707           0        8.707           0        8,707         1.2Z
d  maitutenance              3,500        2,642        6,142     161.440      167,582        23.42
o)  Rural Roade              17.800           0       17,800      14,760       32,560         4.55
........ I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,_ ........................................................................
Total                       107.526       6,060      113,58    604,061       717,649       100I.O
bl By project type and year                                1            2           3           4             5        Totol
$ '000    US$ '000    DS$  000    0ss$  000        DS6  000     US$ '000
evv"*" .......................................____.__....................  _....................
a)  Studiee                                            2,483       5,088        3,420       1,850         1,250       14,090
be  New Construction                                  33,787     114,662      109,926     114,548       121,788      494,711
c) Bridges                                               707       2,000        2,000       2,000         2,000        8,707
d) taItecnanco                                        36,367      75,965       53,480       1,770             0      167,582
,)  Rural Road$                                       14,060       3,625        3,625       3,625         7,625       32,560
...................... ......................................._____._._....__...   __.......................
Total                                                 87,403     201,339      172,451     123,793       132,663      717,649
@3  By fundins source and yoer                             1           2            3           4             3        Total
0S$ '000    0s$ '000    DS$ '000    0Ss '000       U6$ l000     DS9 '000
.............................................. .................................................................................._
Local funds - TGN                                     22,359      27,436       23,656      15,424        16,653      107.526
Local funds . -L                                       1,459       1,491        1,290       1,019           601        6,060
Sub total local                                       23,818      28,927       24,946      16,443        19,454      113,588
foreig                                                63.585     172,412      147,505     107,350       113,209      604,061
.........................................................................................................
Total                                                 67,403     201,339      172,451     123,793       132,663      717,649
-_........................................................................................  _...............
loteem
ItAL Indicates the Fondo Fiducial de Aportte Localos
TGI esgf es the  ational Treacury (Tesoro Oeneral de Ia Macion)



- 89 -
ANNEX ^-
ROAD Z1vMSn    PLAIs 1992 TO 1996                                         SU(RT                                                                     Table 2 (±)
tIRCLDDING YCULL COST OF FIAL FLINDS (excluding interest charge)
1992196     1992196       1992196
Sy project type            Local        Local        Local       1992196      1992196
I fudtng source              T5GS          FAL        Total      Porsigu        Total
Studies                   6.220          200        4,420         9.860       14.280
Seu Constructiou         73.301       68a170      141.471      4)8,001      559,472
Bridge$                   6.707             0        8.707            0        8.707
Haintenance               3,S00       52.832       56,332       161,440      217.772
Rural loads              17,800             0       17.800       14,760       32.560
.......…._...
al                       107.528      121,202      228.730      604,061      832,791
cestage
By project type
.year                                                 1992          1993         1994         1995         1996         Total
.............................................................             …_    _  _., _ _______
Studies                                             2,530         5.230        3.420        1,850        1,250         14.280
New Construction                                   44,999       125,753      121,035      130,673      137,012       559,472
Bridges                                                707        2,000        2,000        2,000        2,000          8,707
Haintenance                                        52,832        93,065       66,875        5.000             0      217.772
Rural Roads                                         14,060        3,625        3,625        3.625        7,625        32,560
............... ....
'otal                                                 £15,126      229,673      196,955      143.148      1£47,67        632,791
3y funding source
year                                                  1992         1993         1994         1995          1996        Total
...................................................
ocal funds - TGS                                      22,359        27,436       23.656       15,424        18£,63       107,528
ocal funds - 1LA                                      29,164       29,825       25,794       20.374        16,025       121,202
;ub total local                                        51,543       57.261       49,450       35,796        $4,676       228,730
oreig                                                63,585       172b412      147,505      107,350      113,209       604,061
........................................................................_
otel                                                  115.128      229,673      196.055      143, 148      147,87       $32,791
.._.



ANNEX 2
ttOPOSED htChAYA tNVES1t PItOORM  . CO9OtTTED PROJECTS - councarpart funds (US$ thousand)                                                                          Table 2 (IL)
..........._..._..._........_._..............._  __.  ...........__.........___..............._..._.
a) DesIgn                                                                     1991          1992          1993           1994           1995        1996      Tocal
................................................_.....   _.................  ......................................
Suer*                   tpatt                     8ID         Loc1            100                                                                               100
Santa Barbara           Batll  Vtst              JItCA        Local                                                                                                0
Prainv.stm,nt Apptatsal                           BID         Locl                          200                                                                200
Cuchu tnganto            Vllaton            PONKLATA          Local                          200           300                                                  500
Instituttonal Strsn&thening                      8It          Local            150                                                                              150
........................................................................ ....................................................................................................__..__
Sub total                                                                      250           400           300              0              0           0        950
bl Construttlon                                                              1991           1992          1993           1996           1995        1996      total
.............................................. ................................................................................______....._._...__._...._
Quiculbsy                Vacuso                   Ito         Local         3.300                                                                             3.500
Santa Crus              Trintdsd            VOIPLATA          Local         4.700         6.000         6,112                                                16.812
Conftatl                Cathuaut                  BID         Local         6.200         8.000         7,950                                                22,150
Totacea                 Puente Mtndas    FONPLATA             Loesl         1.700            670                                                              2.370
?alsar Crand.           Yacutba              ONHPLATA         Local         1.500         3.300         3,372                                                 8.572
P*tascau*a              Ta-bo Qu*sado   IIVIJAPAN             Local                       1.500         1,400           1.400            700                  5,000
Potost                  Puente Hendon         ESPAIfA         Local           500           600            600            500                                 2.200
O*asboqu,               Iesrjo                  Ft8AO         Local
Cautri                   Plar Orands            FItAD         Local
Togattts                San Leranao          Forslgo          Local            500                                                                              500
S. Suanavautura         Tuuupasa             Foreign          Local         1.410                                                                             1,410
Cotapata                Sta. Iarbara              StD         Local                                     7,000           7.000          7.000       3.520    24.520
......................................................... ............................................................................................ ___.,.. _
Sub total                                                                  22,010        20,270        26,634           8.900          7,700      3,520    89.034
cl and d) Iridga, and Maintanance                                            1991           1992          1993           1994           1995        1996      Total
,,,,,..,........................_. _...___........_. ____ ....................................................
Progrta  ?L 480                                 ;SAID         Local         2.182         2,000         2.000           2.000          2.000      2.000      12.182
Sasaipata               Tarus                     StD         Local            145                                                                               145
Southarn DOstrtcts                                CA?         Local            700                                                                              700
El Alto                 Oruro                     IDA         Local            700                                                                               700
ChMisrt                 yepacnaL         swICArimFL           Local         5.000        11,368        11,357                                                27,735
National  latntenance Progras                tDA/IDB          Local                       4.800          4,800          4,800          4,600                 19,000
Chuquisaca Roads                                              Local            300                                                                               300
...................... .....................................__._._... _.................................... _......   _   _  _..............
Sub total                                                                   9,027        18.168        18.167           6t800          6.600      2,000    60.762
.)  Canlnos Vacinales                                                         1991          1992          1993           1994           1995        1996      Total
............................................................... ................................................................................................__..____
Rural Roads  Phbc* It                                         Local            300           338                                                                 638
Santa Crux                                                    Local                                                                                                0
Northern Chuquisaca                                           Locsl            130                                                                               150
Yung.. La Pas                                                 Local            200                                                                               200
.................................................... .......................................................................................... _..................________.__..._.____...______........_
Sub total                                                                      S50           338             0              0               0          0         988
f)  Rssunsn                                                                  1991           1992          1993           1994           1995        1996      Total
...,...__.__........_.__..........._.........._.......   ._............._........_.........._....
Estudlos                                                                       250           400           300              0              0           0         950
Nuevo* construccion*s                                                      22.010        20.270        26,636           8,900          7,700       3.520           0
Puentes                                                                     2.182         2.000         2.000           2.000          2.000       2,000     12.182
Iant.nt iuato                                                               6,845         16.168        16.167          4.800          4.600           0    48,5o0
Caaotnos vacnLalts                                                             650           338             0              0              u.          0         988
........................._...
total                                                                      31.937        39.176        45,101         125700          14,300       5.320    62.700



-91-
ANNEX 2
Rtch   lUWIfnII  vIt, 1ist TO lots                                          81TUD000                                                                 Tabla 2 3U31
..... ................,.,.............................................,..................
Pr.J.cS                                    Length       Sourco        Total          1ot1        1992           1193          1994       1995      1996      1891196
~~~~~~................... ............................... ".........................................................................................._
Oruto                 ftPats,                 225      58T5I8              0                                                                                        0
144c1        1.500                       100           800                                            3,500
Total        1.500                       700           $00                                            1.500
.........................................................................................................................................................
SBata sarbaca         Sella V*loC             II$         JiCt        l.500                        300         1,200                                           1.300
Local            0                                                                                        0
Total        1.300            0          300         1.200                                            1.500
.................................................................,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,..............................................................
Vraleyatuat APrialaI                         548          *tD        1.380                                   3.380                                            2,340
Local          150                                     150                                              I5O
rotal        13510                         0         1.5310                                           1.510
p6caja                La t.ooe                 40    FORIMATA           210                       210                                                            210
Local           70                        70                                                             i0
Trots&         260                       280                                                            280
.............................................................................................. ............................................................................................................... ,
Itrdidl                Chiv.                  U32      EXrTJ            9t0                                                    940                                ts
Local          240                                                   240                                200
Total        I.200                                                 1,200                              1.200
.........................................................................................................................................................
Cueho  trenho         Vlllages                323    VOUPtAA          2.10C                        t00           *00           S00                             2.100
Local        l.000                       200           400           400                              1.000
Total        3.100                     1.100         3.000         t.000                              3.100
...................................... ........................................................................................_...
Itslbajrata           O,.yma*ralm              es      31153            400                                                    *00                                400
foeal          100                                                    100                               100
Total          500                                                   500                                500
,........................................................................................................................................................
Psaaatrcsea            Vtlloofta              240      81752n          1.000                                     500           500                              1,000
Local          440                                     220           220                                440
Total        1.440                                     7M0           720                              1.440
.._ . _ . . . ..A...... 
VIlIl  Ttuair          Son tgraclo           124        1TtR890          SdO                                                              880                     640
Local          220                                                              220                     220
Total   ,   1.300                                                             1.100                   1.100
Pecoto                 TarIjs                 380      8171O           1.000                                                              SoO        300        1,000
Locls          500                                                              250        250          S00
Total        I300                                                               750        750        1.500
us,e L   Ito          QwLquLb.7                93      1175216O          330                                                                         350          350
Local          I50                                                                         I50          I50
Total          500                                                                         500          500
tlastultttooal Stcrfgtheflnlg                              S11           100                       100                                                            100
Local           50                        30                                                             50
Latol          ISO                       ISO                                                            130
Total          350                       150                                                            IS0
foreign        9.t60            0        1.510         3,6S0         2.460      1.300        80S        9.460
TON  Loesl        4.220             0          970         1.420           940        470        400        *.220
IAL Ltatoa            10            0            3                           0          0          0           10
tIA. full            z00             0          s             1350            0          0          0          zo0
Local (Ftl. Inttrespj           4.230            0          973          1,42S          9*0        *70        400        4,230
Local (11AL full)               4.420            0        1.020          1.570          9SO        470        400        4.420
5t,                            2.527 Total (VIrAL Letterst)           34.090            0         .483         5.o08         3.420      1.830      1,230       14.090
Cosa t r  o                    5.653 Total (tIAL full)               14.280             0       2.530          5.230         3.420      3,S50      1,20       14,280
.



- 92 -
ANNEX 2
ROAD ZIIVZSfnT PLAN, 1991 TO 1996                                               NUEYOS COtSTRUCCt01NCS (A)                                                    Table 2 (lv)
._...................................................................................................................................................
FundLng
Origtin                 Daitinatlon           Ltonth        Source         TotWl           1991          1992           1993           1994       1995        1996      1991/96
.... ................................................................ .......................................................................................................  
QQtcuib3                TYacuso                    42           8tD       32.370                         434                                                                434
Local        16.320                      4.3t0                                                              4.340
I Cost por k3        1.139.286         Total       '4.690                        4,774                                                              4.774
................................................. ......................................................................................  ....X....
Santa Cruz              TrwnIdad                  544    tFOPLATA         29,200                       4.000         14,450                                              18.450
Local       28,220                       3,000          4,320                                               7.320
2 Cost par 1k          103,551         Total        37.420                       7.000         18,770                                      .       25.770
Confital.               Calhuaat                   50           8DI       33.200                       1,819         13,665          6,708       6.708                   28.900
Local       22.10                       5,962          7.950          3.219       3,219                   20,350
3 Cost per km       1.107,000          Total        35.3S0                       7,781         21,615          9.927       9.927                   49.250
........................................... ..............................................................................................................
Totacoa                 Pu.ot HMndez               30    toNPLATA          8.280                       2,300          1.700                                               4.100
Local        4,695                       2.200                                                              2.200
4 Cost per km          432,300         Total        12,973                       *.500          1,700                                               6.200
.... ...................._........._.   ___  ..........................................  ....
Palmer Orande           Yacuiba                    60    F0NPLArA         13.880                       1.566          4,105          4,10S       4.105                   13,981
Local        8,570                       1.;81          2,196          2.196       2.196                    8.369
3 Cost per 1w          374.167         Total        22,450                       3.547          6,301          6.301       6,301                   22.450
FaPtlacaga              Taubo Queaado             192   800IJAPAN         81.600                         598          7.410         20,400      18,400     16,400        63.208
L.ocal       10.600                       1.500         2,223          2,225       2,223       2.225        10.400
8 Cost pot 1w          479,167         Total        92,000                       2.098          9.635         22,625      20.625     20.625        75,608
Potoot                  Pueant  Hand.:            109       ESPAN         60,400                       9,398         15.100         13,100    1I.300        5.702        60,400
Local        2,200                         505            550             550        5S0          45        2.200
7 Coat per kw          574.12          Total        62,600                       9.903         15.650         135,650     15.650      5.74i        52.s0C
............................................................... .................................................................__.__
Do2omboque              8*rmJo                    35       EXTLtO3o             0                                                                                              0
FIoAB       1,O000                        1,516         6,742          6,742                                15.000
8 Cost p.r km          272,727         Total        13,000                       1.,16          6,742          6.742                               15.000
........................................................ .................................................................................................. 
Caalrl                 PFlaar Crande              190      EXI 7NO              0                                                                                              0
FtDAZ       39,230                       2,300          4.100          6,100       6.100       8,100       26.900
9 Cost pot km          311.7J7         Total        $9.230                       2.500          4,100          6,100       6.100      8,100        26.900
....................................... I................................................................... s__..._______.__........................
Toeatitas               San 1.oranto               10        Local          1.300                         500                                                                500
10 Cost par km          130,000         Total         1,300                         300                                                                 300
.. eX............................................................................................................................
S. suenavanturs         Tusupass                   55        Local         3,144                          100         1,000          1,000                                2,10C
11 Cost par km           57.164         Total         3.144                          100         1,000          1,000                                2.100
Cotapata                Sta. bagbsra               49           3tD      165.300                                     20,500         21,000      21,000      21.000       83.500
Local       27,200                                       1.000         2,900       3,900       3,900        11,700
13 Cost par km       3,928,571          Total       192,300                                     21.500         23,900      24.900     24.900        95.200
.......................... ...........................................___-.-....   -   ........................... ..............
foratgn      424.230              0        20.113         76.§30        67,313      65.313      45.102       274.773
Local  TSG       122,359              0       12.302         18.908         16.88       8.846       8,145       64,789
rtAL intares         3.804             0           590            559            417        467         306         2.340
FtAL full          76.070              0        11.802        11.175          8,344       9,344       6,125       46.790
Local (FOAL interest)            126.163             0        12,892         19.467         17,005      9,313       8,451        67,129
Local (OVA]. full)               198,429             0        24,104         30.083         24.932     18,390      14,270       111.579
1.386 Total (FFhL interest)            530,393              0       33,007         96.397         84,318      74.626      53.553      341.902
Coat p.r km                    449.249 Total (FFAL fuLL)                 622.659              0       44.219        107.013         92.243      83.503    59.372        386.352
.........................................................................................................................................................



- 93 -
ANNEX 2.
ROAD tNVTHESTltE    PLAN. 1991 TO 1996                                        Nl0ZVO.  CONSTlUCCIONES (t)                                                  Table 2 tv)
.... ... __v_............................................. .............................................................................................. ....
funding
OC4Ln                   Destination          Length       Source         Total          1991          1992          1993           1994        1993       1996      1991/95
................................................................ .........................................................................................
tadeya                 La Manora                 40    tONPLATA         27.160                                     3.432          3,432      3.432      5.432        13.729
Local        6,790                                     1.358          1.358     1.35        1.338        3.432
12 Cost per km         8489750         Total       33,930                                     4.790          4.790      4.790       6.790       21.160
.........................................................................................................................................................
San Iorja              Trinidad                 220           8tD       71.700                                                               3.000       8.800       13,800
Local       17,930                                                               1.030       2.000        3.030
14 Cost por 1k         393,114         Total       89.630                                                               6.030      10.800       16,930
.........................................................................................................................................................
Challapate             Tarapapa                 168           8tD       84,910                                                                S300       10500       16.000
Local       21,230                                                                 1100       2200        3,300
1                     631.786         Total      106.140                                                               6.600      12.700       19.300
.........................................................................................................................................................
lo Aaaro               99onteagudo               82           8iD       34,080                                                     4400       6000       12000       22.400
Local       13.520                                                     1350       2000        2200        8.350
19 Cott por km       1.300.000         Total       67,600                                                    5,750      8.000      14.200       27.950
Pai4lon                P.Suarae                 180           5ID      238.000                                                    8,000      10000       12000       30.000
Local       88.000                                                    1,000       2300        2300        6.000
20 Cost par km       1.811,111         Total       326.000                                                   9,000      12.500    14.500        36.000
..................................................................... ........................ -............................................................................ _ . 
IUo Saco               Desagua4*ro               96           DID       26.300                                      4600           4100      4.100      *.300        17.100
Local        3.100                                       300           1000      1,000       1.000        3.'00
96 Cost par km         327.083         Total        31.400                                    4.900          3,100       3.100      3,500       20.600
,..._....................................................................................................................................................
ConcepcLon             San ISgnaco              130    Aleunnla             200                        200                                                              200
Local           380                        380                                                              3a0
21 Cost per km           5.200         Total           780                        760                                                               780
.........................................................................................................................................................
CobcJs                 Chlve                    181        ttALIA        18,000                                      l800         3.400       3.400      2,400       18.000
p puantac                                                   Local        2.300                                       20             730         730        750        2.300
17 Cost par km         113.260         Total        .0.300                                    9.030          4.130       4,130      3,130        20.300
Potol,                 Toaztas                  181       ESPANA       203.000                                                                          10.000       10,000
Local             0                                                                                           0
18 Cost par km       1.132.597         Total       203,000                                                                         10.000        10.000
,,,,,,..............._... ___... __.......................   .............................................
Foreign   1.149,380               0       20.313        93.562         90,643   102.743   110.734         418.001
Local  TGN       132.229             0       12,882         20.316         18.696     10.954      10.253       73.301
FFAL inter*s       11.093             0           390           304            38S         849        601        3.409
YFAL full         221,850             0       11.602         11.673         11.694     16,974    16,023         68,170
Local (OFAL inctrant)           14J3322             0       13,472         21.100        19,281    11.803       11,034        76.710
Local tF.FAL ful1l              354.079             0       24,684         32,191        30.390    27.928    26.278          141,471
Kos                                ERR Total (FFAL interest)         1.292.902              0      33.787        114,662        109,926   114.348    121.788        694.711
Cost par kD                        EM  Total (OVAL full)             1.503.659              0      646999        123.753        121.03     130.673   137.012        559.472
....................................................................................................... ................................................................................................................... ----_



- 94 -
ANNEX 2
-v  tinsl(SER3   PLA.  1991 TO 1996                                         PUITlSS                                                                     Table 2 Cv::)
c)  3ridge                                              Fundlsg
Ot4ita                 Destination          Length       Source         Total          1991         1992          1993           1994       1995       1996      1991196
Progrt* IL 430                                            USAID        18.500
Local        9.920                        707         2.000         2.000      2.000       2.000        8.707
Total       28,420                        707         2.000         2.000       2.000      2.000        8.707
Sub total                                               Foac.gn        18.500             0            0             0              0          0          0            0
Local  TON         9.920             0          701         2,000         2.000      2.000      2.000         8.707
3FAL tnters             0             0            0             0             0           0          0            0
TfAL full               0             0            0             0              0          0          0            0
Local MViAL Interest)            9,920             0          707         2.000          2.000      2.000      2.000        8,707
Local tFFAL full)                9.920             0          70t          2.000         2.000      2.000      2,000        8.707
Total (FiAL interest)           28.420             0          707         2.000          2.000      2.000      2.000       84707
Total (diAL full)               28.,20             0          707         2.000          2,000      2.000      2.000        8.707
.........................................................................................................................................................
ROAD INVZSTHET PLAN. 1993 TO 1996                                           fUm7 tH2tW03                                                                Table 2 (vLti)
.........................................................................................................................................................
d)   aintenance
.............. ........................ ............................................................................................ .........................................................................................______________
LSamalpta              Taruaa                   80           8tD        8.615                                                                                          0
Local        1.132                      1.132                                                           1.132
Total        9.750                      1,132                                                           1.132
.6...... ..__ ..._____........__.___.__.____........................___....._._____.............,.,,,.,____.,________.,,,,,.,,,,,,,,_,
C1 Alto                Oruro                   240           IDA       14.600                      1.700         5.890                                             7.390
It.urf*crng                                               Local         3,100                      2,000         1.500                                             3.300
Total       14.300                      3,700         7.390                                            11.090
CbLaror                Tapscant                258 8tDICAFIIPL         97.000                      2,500        35.675        35.675                              73.850
Local       28.400                      7.200         8.000         8,000                              23.200
Total      1235400                      9.700        43.675        43.673                              97.050
Nattonal Maintenance                           16453    IA/105         80.000                     29.300        32,000         17.100      1.600          0       80.000
Progrsa                                                    Local       28.300                      9.000        I0.000         6.100       3.400          0       28,300
Total      108.300                     38,300        42,000        23.200       5.000          0      108.300
ForeIgn      200.418             0       33,300        73,365        52.775       1.600          0      161.640
Local  TON         3,500             0       2.000          1.500             0           0          0        3.500
rFAL intarcs        2,902             0          867           900           703         170          0        2.662
FAL full           58.032             0       17,332        18,000        14,100      3.400           0       52.832
Local ltOAL Interest)            6.402             0        2,867         2.400            705        170          0        6.142
Local (urAL full)               61.332             0       19.352        19,500         14,100      3,400          0       56.332
Kas,                              EMA Total dFIAL interest)           206.820             0       36.367        75.165        53.480       1.770          0      167.582
Coat per km                       E   Total (FPAL full)               261.950             0       52.832        93.065        66.873       3.000          0      217.772
,__________..................___.....__...._________....................................._____............... ___.___._..___.____________._____..........................................................__....__._______.



- 95 -
ANNEX 2
KOAD tNESTKNT PLAN, 1991 TO 1996                                              CAMltNOS VCUNALVS y 9ZS82tN                                                  Table 2 (ia)
.........................................................................................................................................................
Project                                                   fundtnS
Or4it                   D*Stlvp^Lon          Length        Source         Total          1991          1992          1993           1994       1995        1996      1991/74
Rural toads                                     314         USAtD         6.810                         360                                                              360
Phase It                                                    Local         1.720                         500                                                              500
Total       86530                          860                                                               860
......................................... ..........,..._..,,......................................
La Paz                                                       JICA         3,900                      3,900                                                             5 * 00
Local        2,200                       2.200                                                            2,200
Total        8.100                        o100                                                             9,100
Potosi                                                       JtCA         4.100                         600           8       75    515         87         875         4,100
Local        6.300                       2.300          1.000         1.000       1.000      1.000        6.o00
Total       10.400                       2,900          1,875         1,875       1,875      1,675        10.4luO
.......................................................................................... ..............................................................................................................................................
Cbuqulacca                                                   JICA         3.700                         700           730            730        730         730        3,700
Local        4,400                         40C           1000          1000        1000       1000        4,400
Total        8.100                       1.100          1,750         1,750       1.730      1.730        6,100
.........................................................................................................................................................
Tart)*                                                       JtCA           700                         700                                                              700
Local           *00                        400                                                               400
Total        1.100                       1.100                                                             1.100
.........................................................................................................................................................
Nectional                                                   Local      4".000                                                                             4000         *,000
Total       "3.000                                                                            4000         4,000
Sub total                                                Foreign        21.210              0        S.260          1,625         1.423       1.625      1.623        1t.790
Local  TON        60.020             0         3,900         2.000          2,000      2.000      6 00-)       17.800
FtAL  nt*ras             0             0            0              0             0           0          0             0
FrAL full                0            0             0              0             0           0          0             0
Local (VIAL interest)            60.020             0        5,800          2,000         2,000       2,000      6,000        17.800
Local (VIAL full)                60,020             0        3,800          2,000         2,000       2,000      6.000        17,800
Total (VtAL interact)            81.230             0        14,060         3.625          3.625      3,625      7,623        32.560
Total (FVAL full)                81.230             0       14,060          3,623         3.623       3.623      7,623        32.560
-......................... ................ ....................................   ............................_.........
TOTAL                                                     Foreign   1.399.568               0       63,383        172.412       147.305   107.330   113.209         604,061
Local  TON       209.889             0       22.359         27.436        23.656      15.424     18.653       107.528
FVAL Loteres       14.004             0         1.459         1.491          1,290      1,019         801        6.060
VtAL full         280,082             0       29,184         29.,25        25,794      20,376    16.023        121.202
Local (lVAL inte*rat)          223.893              0       23.816         28.927        24,946      16,443     19.434       113,598
Local (IIFAL full)             489.971              0       31,543         57,261        49,450    33.798    34,e78         228.730
Total (VTAL Interestl        1.623,461              0       $7.403        201,339       172,451   123.793   132.663          717,649
Total (VtAL full)            1.889.539              0      115,128       229.673        196.951   143.143   147.887         832.791
............... ....................... _.....................  _...................................



-96-
ANNEX 2
DINTS? PA  S T  TO 1a.                                                                                                                               TaU    3
.* .._._............. ,_*_o...................... .........................................................
Tu1ienng       Tot"l         1992         1993          1994          1995       1996   1991194
rigli3               Doe0t4attQu         L ngtb       sour4.    DU  loco    uSS  000    uMs *oo          us$ 'a0       us$ '000 uss  oo ooO  ase '000
,_____ ................ _ . ____. ....................................... .............. ....................... __s..._._... __.__........ .......__ 
g.vtuoutu  Apptat.al                         566         AID             a            0            a             0             0         0          6
--tttut$*     Stte44heMng                     0          DID            3            3            0             0             0          0          3
cu±b.y              sAtao                   42         B1D                       217             0            0             0          0        217
_Jitial              C&ibuai                  30         *tD                        298          396           161           161         0      1.016
astcama              T&*bo Qtaado            192         21D                         50           74            74            74        74        347
otapata              Sta. Sarb4ro             49         2DD                          0           s0           145           195       195        365
IaC  sorja            Trcda8                 226          bDI          691            0            0             0            32        100        132
mallapata            ?8rapa9a                166         1UD         1.062            0            0             0            35        11O       163
-- Agave             Hofteoaido               52         2tD          676             0            0           a6           100        110        276
asueo                P.S4as.o                160         UDo        4.400             0            0           30           125        123        300
4. Scco              D.sscadoro               96         1tD           233            0           as           50            s0         30        175
--Ipata             TASmn                    60         StD           37            37            0            0             0          0         57
i1.t.                Tapacan                 238         DID                       311          346           346             0          0      1,004
attoAl Kaint*u9Uc* Progr.a                 1645         StD                        225          230           133           65          0        713
___ .............                            32 .. .. 1.....,150 __.044                                                      897        76.3,016
Sub total                                    3426                     7.356        1.161        1 130         1.04#          697        764      3.OIS



- 97 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Ma,intenance By Force Account
Maintenance Organization
1.    Maintenance of the roa.d network is carried out by SNC's Maintenance
Department (MD), reporting *.o the Operations Division, with three units at the
central level: one for plaining and control, another for pavement technology
and the third for personnel training. A new unit, the Project Execution Unit
(Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto - UEP) was created in 1989 to coordinate the
actions in projects with external financing. SNC's organization in the field
on road maintenance is composed by ten districts, each employing from 520
people (La Paz) to 82 poopLe (Pando), depending directly on the Operations
Division, The districts are further divided into 43 subdistrict. and five
special units. Road maint3nance equipment and workshops are supervised and
coordinated by the Equipment Department (ED), also depending on the Operations
Division, and composed of five units: Supervision, Procurement, Central Work
Compound, Workshops and El Alto Unit. All this organization totals about
3,857 people of which 236 are at the central office and the rest work in the
districts. These numbers ought to be sufficient to carry out the required
maintenance work by force account and to plan and control the entire
maintenance program. On the other hand, maintenance equipment still needs
rehabilitation and major repairs (see Annex 4).
Maintenance Planning and Budgeting
2.   Maintenance planning has no. been practiced before 1990.  Traditionally,
the data for budget preparation had been generated in SNC, with very little
quantitative input from the field operating units.   The budget format was
very general-and was not based on any measure of expected work performance.
Each year the budget submission represented a percentage increase over the
previous year, but with little assessment of what funds are really requtred
for each maintenance function.
3.    In recent years, the Government and SNC have made efforts to allocate
funds to improve road maintenance. The corresponding allocations under the
current account increased from US$5.6 million in 1985 to US$18 million in 1988
and US$20.2 million in 1989, but these budgets were not sufficient and caused
maintenance levels to deteriorate significantly and, so far, have not
recovered in real terms. The 1990 budget for SNC's current expenses reached
US$29.0 million, (including about US$6 million for purchases of some units of
equipment), of which 97Z of the total had been disbursed by December 31, 1990.
The level of disbursement varied from 106Z for wages to 60X for spare parts to
operate the equipment. Considering the total amount disbursed, the average
expenditure on road maintenance was about US$740 per km in 1990. This is
adequate for routine maintenance alone, but not enough to cover periodic
maintenance and therefore, less than 11,000 km received adequate maintenance.



- 98 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
4.    The budget for current expenses in 1991 was about US$22 million.
However, these funds are still barely sufficient. They represent a
significant effort, (about 30% of the total road expenditures budget, capital
and current) but are still a low amount, especially if we take into account
that from the US$23 million, approximately US$12 million is for salaries of
about 3,857 people who are SNC employees, of which only around 39170 people
are actually working on road maintenance. An additional amount of about
US$8.3 million was included in the SNC investment program for 1991 to carry
out the maintenance program financed by CAF in the five southern districts.
Furthermore, in recognition of the inadequacy of the funds allocated to road
maintenance, the National Treasury (TGN) in the last quarter of the year
transferred to SNC additional US$4.2 million for the maintenance program.
These facts and figures confirm the need to prepare adequate maintenance
programs and budgets and to establish an appropriate control system.
5.    The 1587-BO project provided technical assistance to prepare and develop
the SAM, a maintenance management system and the SAE, an equipment management
system, and some training was also provided especially for equipment
management and workshop organization. However, a detailed work program was
never implemented. In 1989, SNC started the implementation of the SAM and the
SAE in the five southern districts under CAF (Corporacion Andina de Fomento)
financing and recently the SAM and the SAE have been implemented in the other
five distriits, under the Export Corridors Project. Now, the SAM and the SAE
will provide the means to improve the maintenance budget process. In the
meantime, the general principals of these systems have been used in the
preparation of the annual maintenance budgets by force account for 1991 and
1992-1995.
Road Maintenance Programs (1991-1995) by Force Account
6.   During project preparation, the maintenance activities to be carried out
by force account and the parameters of the SAM were reviewed and updated for
planning purposes and used as inputs for the system in preparing maintenance
programs for the period 1991-1995. The first maintenance program studied was
the program for 1991, based on the maintenance activities provided by the
system; each activity has its work measurement unit (e.g. square meter). The
level of maintenance service to be provided was established for what was
considered a full level of maintenance service. This "full level" implies all
maintenance requirements except marks and signals studied separately, (see
Annex 8 and was defined by a set of quantity standards (e.g. square meters of
patching per year) with a separate standard for each activity. Quantity
standards were fixed starting from the existing system and the results of
interviews with SNC's staff at the field level. Three basic levels of
quantity standards were determined corresponding to the three categories of
roads (fundamental, complementary and rural). Modifying factors to the
quantity standards were introduced according to pavement condition, surface
type, climatic regions, pavement age and SNC's policies (e.g. manual or
mechanical execution). Data on pavement condition were collected in the field
using the Mays Meter, the Benkelman Beam, soil testing from core samples and
surveys by SNC's staff.
7.   Once the maintenance activities and the levels of maintenance (expressed
in quantity standards) were established, the Bank's HDM model was ueed to



- 99 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
analyze different quantity standards for the most important activities (those
that represent more than 802 of the maintenance total cost) and select the
optimum alternative for a specific road condition. The levels of maintenance
were so optimized and used in the SAM to obtain a maintenance program and
budget. Another model, the Expenditure Budgeting Model (EBM) was then used,
interacting with the HDM model, to select the maintenance policies, and
maximizing the investment under the existing budget constraints. These new
quantity standards were then used again by the SAM to determine a maintenance
program adjusted to the resources available. (Once the quantity standards are
established, annual work quantities are determined for each maintenance
activity by multiplying the quantity standards by the appropriate inventory
quantity. The amounts and types of resources required to carry out the annual
work quantities are determined by using each maintenance activity's
performance standard, which define the activity, the daily resource
requirements, the expected daily accomplishment and the approved work method.
Annual costs for each activity are determined by multiplying the resources
required by unit costs for labor, equipment and materials. The sum of all
annual activity cost is the maintenance budget).
8.    The network length considered under maintenance in the 1991 program was
37,128 km corresponding to the length of the total highways network less the
part of the network under reconstruction or rehabilitation in 1991. Out of
the length considered, only about 20,500 km are properly maintainable
according to the criteria established in the SAM. The rest of the network
only can be considered for emergencies and essential works to maintain the
roads passable . The maintenance program and budget were prepared for each
road, district by district, for all roads in which the SAM 4.s applicable (the
maintainable network). The program for the rest of the network was evaluated
according the experience of SNC's staff in past years. As a sum of all these
programs, a general program and budget were prepared for the nation's entire
highway network. The total maintenance budget for 1991 resulted in the
equivalent to US$26.8 million of which US$11.9 million was for activities
considered as routine maintenance and US$5.3 million) for activities
considered as periodic maintenance. The rest was for emergencies and
improvements.  The program for 1991 was considered minimum but satisfactory
and was used by SNC to propose the 1991 maintenance budget to the Government.
It was also a step forward in improving road maintenance procedures and
modifying current maintenance practices and will set up a starting point for
developing the maintenance programs for the following years.
9.    The program for 1992 was prepared on the same basis that the 1991
program but, including under routine maintenance the part of the network
under reconstruction and rehabilitation in 1991 and excluding the part under
reconstruction and rehabilitation in 1992. The total maintenance budget for
1992 is the equivalent to US$35.2 million of which US$12.9 million for
routine maintenance (US$15.7 million) for periodic maintenance US$1.2 million
is for emergencies and US$ 4.4 million for minor improvements. The length of
the network (total and by district) considered under maintenance by force
account is shown in Table 1A. The results of the 1992 program are shown in
Table lB.
10. The programs for 1993, 1994 and 1995 were prepared on the same basis as
the 1991 and 1992 programs. They are also based on the assumption of



- 100 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
excluding the part of the network in reconstruction or rehabilitation during
the project period. It was estimated that the roads under reconstruction or
rehabilitation in the year considered will not need routine nor periodic
maintenance in that year, but will need routine maintenance in the following
year and periodic maintenance after four years of the reconstruction and
rehabilitation works.
11.   The length of the network (total and by district) considered under
maintenance by force account in 1993-1995 is shown in Tables 2.A (1993); 3.A
(1994); and 4.A '1995). The results of the 1993-1995 programs are shown in
Tables 2 B (1993); 3 B (1994); and 4 B (1995) with the partial budgets for
routine maintenance, periodic maintenance, emergencies end minor improvements,
and the total SNC maintenance cost by force account for each year.
12.   Table 5 shows a summary of the length and results of Tables A and B.
The total amount for maintenance by force account in 1992-1995 is the
equivalent to US$77.5 million, of which US$54.5 (or 70.3%) is for routine
maintenance, US$18.3 million (or 23.6Z) is for periodic maintenance, and
US$4.7 million (or 6.1%) is for emorgenci.es. All these figures, which do not
include salaries for the people working at the central offices and other
current expenditures of SNC, are considered adequate, taking into account the
additional US$ 60.1 million for periodic maintenance by contract, which will
be financed by the Project. Table 5 also includes the figures for periodic
maintenance by contract in the paved and gravel network.
Directory: BOLIVIA
Doc. Name: A-annex3.sar
A-B:mv
052891



NATIONAL  IET  MAINTENANCE  PROGRAM .1992
1r*         HAix RODDS                      COJPLENENTARY ROADS                  FEEDER ROADS         .               TOTAL a  DISTRICT
( I S T R I CT    ,                       -                       -                . -    -                                                              -
|-Z        PAYED ]GRAVEL   EARTH    TOTAL    PAVD 0    RAVEL   EARTH    TOTAL    PAYVED  GRAVE    EARTHj  TOTAL         AV ED    GRAVEL      EARTH      TOTAL
D-!   LA PAZ           197     253       31       481      76      238 i    94        63B  1    49   1,4IV   2,969 ;   4,410         313     1,893     S,293      5,498
D-2   DEHU1ACA         *n2    571    _66          759               47     211        259              327   3,335      3,332         22       945     3,33       4,J49
D-3   TARIJA            b4     314      18 |      48               380    164         472       I      382   1,413    1,016           75     1,84      1,B5       2,764
D-4   COCHAOARBA       495     119                524       7       57     131        195        5     911   1,354 |   1,969        417      1,887     1,185      2,689
D-5   SANTA CRUI       243     391       13       645              358     499        850      55      966   3,134 j   4,155        295      1,716     3,647      5,650
f-b   ORURO           .153               163      316              394     586        981              422   4,616      5,338        153       981     5,2a2      6,336
0-7   POTOSI            21     231        7       258              Ia?     319        421              242   4,152      4,394         21       575     4,477      5,373
-8   TUPI!                                                         191     283        474              384   2,171      2,555                  575     2,454    3,229
1D-9   BEN1                    268      534 |     194       .       43     287        3381               2     isqf       161 |B5 ,                      9011   1,285
o-to  PAHDD        |9 <139  j                     1785                     115j       115                      187        187                   39        441       483
TOTAL COUNTRY      1,13   2,340       97      444        83   1,733   2.889       4'70' !          5!845  .L N      2T,216]    1s296 |      118    26.747    37:61 
F.g
ID



U cr,ozcc I £££u1  6  6 566 6£rIIt £66£Lo 121 toCOo*i1 wooit ~~         ~          ~         ~          ~         xviela 231ox  stv                        $2VA0
Ocow; jvgom;f I                      I.         1.        to        So          _______________________                                            ZUN2msolJ_i _  __   _      _       _u       _       _
at           us1                                                                 us     sat     As Iee 12  32 "Atw a    a eszlw
cnn sI ;m1     t-'   I       I       I          I         I         I          I       I       1      1o   t    1I                            I           1n          I*
713 01EEU6bI    1   Irue                                                                                                                        s mZU   tUVTtWVIl£0lpO
ZKU"1      |      t   rm 1sat Im  O           S,                 |oa                   t                                             titutm s                      2   I  a I   a t  I t   v
a1;tI  moloos's Iu*ot  XIos'   I                                               I lu-, _i i WM  I wea I S,0      I atot l   toIt SJ I welt    I  bs.1         a s s I  I                         lawst13 le"
vi    I t   I  us  IU"4  PUll  Uso     U    I se       us       USo    I    t    seU    I Mt I   us  I-,.6 a.,35.lubs ilmt qsij £0jUumbf           Ituol-a~i 
wzoz  I  5ZZ=ZO 3             ,r  IA Ct'm                          D,                   I__ __0 2                            301  -tM.? I *1t-11   - *              2  I  a  a  a  I J        3  v
969    5241493TA.13231212H
N 'cl  twlt                            Cie - czn    u t£s£   onto;             j                                                                          23UYU2&S1                 0          1  1t10222n  *1t
-                  _-                       -          ---  -                               ---_--_C                                                 - _     _     .    _      __I   ~    I  is;   j 100  I 600  010£    £16055    £t0025  Ul ~a~toI  uiSI ott  1U~u06t&*1 t*Iaisa osti
f ~       ~           ~          f j.os a  .t uoo  Ib                        ,       ! - us                       -
*             :~~.               Is        to COiv.   loe                    t.                   gas   t   s         I          I                                      11110
1 I                                      1              -            :             IR                        02 pa I sICmCcbS.         wpm*
u i   mDst J stn D , Itj ut   U S jtj   _j t                                                i**                               'UUW                        _                    £
C 0                                                                                                IllA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Sa',                                  a~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~, a,   a,          Col_
C-4-                                                                                                =~~~~~~~~~£612E1201230 101t                                                          I
test   22&VR23xxvn   *1002*2&261200
It  55001    550011    0S1P~~~~~"  21   66Z  660.3"-  &V"0 Wm6 a21641 I0
6   061                                   et* IUbZI  5  -va4u21 Ws  q"es'" 'i''   tit
t$$l ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ £             toll&$a    lot        .;wo            o          go  , 2  *032216p,tw
6£ -050 .ttt .02P~*t -05 -                                         'Ub,            . - .
*D'tt n   tt lC-lt    _  _  £gt'tR-b  n§e z  tn's s | _ _  _                                                              _ 2 sooott  sototl  puzStzSsy  us  Eottil 00 990   02016 f20 * 01 e 01
Z tw"*ws t;:$                          as,|s t wag 'te ot    Y n   -  9z cto                     co'es                9       a           *.;s" s st t
Ints                                    ons  it     Vs ft    ef :                         ":       CC    401        it                                                                                     to       , gtC'   -* *
StS51                                606  SC|Z  GIU*ZI  06*L  *t50             Wo    10         500   66        £5£0    0500        05£K  2212iI0              666      t 1~6 uWuh  ttm                 totl 
601£                                   613       ot         a1061               65m 0t0 t                                     1t  £ s6.40          go  0Y        6£t _0          £
arril8!.7s                                            vaocl              s              Ditle   sil  al    "l         atol        t                     **SCJt
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~g 00t0                                60£ t60 '1601    tot                      s G 
|$n  I              I                Ic usn al t6a'n  1 ItZtl* I         $s     ft       ,I               we      09:                                          et*              *                                 e
1 S                             WCISvSlCwc                Is                I    See               g9                                    g                06                         0
4111,it                                *6g£i6               on a1£ *fll£        061£t "t Ui      001   -06         Il       15102    0110                        et 0                                    Gm'o£   Ivz    o
O105   to12    w.n         lilt    "It      is    o         tit.,6  5O49                                    £                            yIM        so
05(1St                    05115£    016002~~~~~~~~~~VCA  set5  10001    ti*t    lilt    610   silo   911t     505 1 Svelte   vtnI                                                            to"oi,II2~3~20s10
soft                                 65I         WO        551      *L0    I51  10 5:16   01                    61       £5141o 1V                             651110
sWilm                                 ouili     otilO   oI     ,       ,,       ;,      ot      og so             s        c          c1           ay           065                             00320  10
Il - U31111lamtlu.A33311  lSM                                  MM                  Small    £012312    11   tm MD5                                u      I .      I'  a  I  a   I  a        W
I~~~~~mo                                                         I~~~~~cs    33zi                                                        _ _ _                                       j2Iissel
I                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24*   *v2av    ___l                                                  _ __vsetsonie



NATIONAL  NET MAIN'TEN}ANCE  PROGRAM  1993
J.,
*   HAII1 RO41D5       z       EOttFLEiIENIAIY ROADS                FEEDER ROADS-                              Dv bWSIVE                I
I DISTRICT                                                                                      101    I PAVED  i GRAYL        EARTia  I  UITAL~~PVE1-  .3jr
PAVED |6RAVEL  EARTHr TOTAL    PAYED II AYEL I EARTH    1OTP | PAE  16RAVEL   I    !                AL  ,, PED    GiM£   |  Effift.
D-1  UL  PAI       |   M'1     15'    219         565     264      23      294        log      44 j 51359 |2,969 |        .3i.1     4S!   1,744        3,4   1  
D-2   CHUIU5C           53     571     166        791               47     211        258         1 3271  3,885 |   3332             53 !       45 !-2        i3 573 -!
D-3   TARIJA            64      75             1   3q              38      164        472      la j   389   1,4131   1,8   !                   9
0-4   COCHABAMBA       455     119                524       7       57     131        195       5      91    1,114 | 1,9            417     1.071         8             i
.-                                                          -    ._  .,,                                       I    _ _                                  I _   _
D-5   SRITA CRUZ       368     17        13       55B              358     459        858      55      9hb   3,134 i   4,155        423     1,501      3.647 j 5571
0-6   ORURO            225     163                398              396     586        981          Z42    4616|   5.23E !           225      _91        -22      6 .407 |
D-7   POTOSI            21     238        7       258              102     319        421              24?   4,152     4,394 i       21        575     4,417 5|     1 ,    i
____                                  -     _    ._ ., _ .                ..                        I_ I                                                        I 
['-8   TUPIZA                                                      191     283        414             384   2,171      2,55                   571      2.454     3.029
D-9   BENI                     26      534        794               43     26?        330                2     15         161           j                95ga    1.g85
|ITMAL COUNTRY       1,327   1,9      1,078  i   4,394     211   1,t733  2881    4,893         11    4,994  22,86e | 2',965 | 1,7D5 |    ,715 2|  e26    [7.2)2
10-10 PANDO        j             391.39             __8    -      -      1. sj         1151 I811 -87j I____ I                                   39 *       4j 4_88O



A3304AL 38001  VZOCIAN ASP ROAD 3AISTEUAECE  03905T
IO0?331 34A13?hMAECE 3993
&        I   v   I   4            S           I IuIUOm ?f4310.~O1 ACOO3T Ammo30? 033 3t931  04033                                                 34c03w001s43 t04   4433nIO=003  008?  3 c10?3                                     o4)
303   o30.. paseblas                           ;0 33I    rewo'd  04         43.3         85.1291    2.1942       0.10      2.3It    2.31        0i.33      d0.340    183.200       333.130          Ito39                                       302.110
302   .c03.o  .iob  21is                      0$ 1WI   I.. 4              40 ..0       4  so30       S33        3.03     0.1is    2.09         8.18      1.3          040         8.3          3.0                                             9.8
2043. 300   0.o.)000  33    1.4  4                                             3,03         3.03          33          .3      0.3*.~33                        3......3                              0.00                                             9.
3003      by hand .q.3...  30.b3           330   U       9,.   4          3323         303.302        318        0.30     0.33    0.80          3.31     238.03                                                                                 as 'SO.30 32.3033.3
3303  CoOIo vlb.q.oI.g   .00 033p              1.4110i 09  3 . .. 0    4  3.0  2.01 36    320.230       3.36        O 0.00     .0   210             33                    30S03230                  3.3                                             3.330
223C.l  8.102LIo.                            0  3303  30P.0.  0.        231 328       433.31      330          00        .0      203          3333490 22008                                 .0.2                                            .0.
loot    .1..3,.o..2   303   3  ..    .                                         8.8          8.8        3.332        0.00      3.08    4.32,        3.3819803                               la000  13.03                                            W3.*l
1330o0o2. .03.1435. 3310 *m0p.w             303.P...d Ca                 2.1030       2.308        300       0.00      3.3  19.9           333                      3.3          0.1         1.3                                             3.
2303   .31  .*c .    .300  o.n3                   90  33    3.ac3o  l  yox-    0-. a 4a.02  I3093      0l3           0.00     3.4  304      3       0.33I33.300                       S3,33.00   0.30.to                                          '.',:,21o
2303  13...b  .0 43..0. 3. p.v.4 wth .q  2.30   38.   V..   4  30332 30233                   33         00        .'  0.38             0.3                   3.1890      330 .,40    . 480.30                                         *0.30
3202  0..3..~~. 3.3,0..... 03 ~~  so. ag.   m3.3 3.01       333.433       3.43       a 3           0.0      03        .8          3.34.4                              180         4.0                                             0.0
3303   .43..4  ,n06.4.AMu.   703                  0    8      oo   4           2.8         331,04           2       00         .1     03             .33.3                               .~         21.80                                           0.83
0003  300,30z .00 ..g.t.13. .4040.3  9,000  333    9.p. ..ol    043382.0.0             .1          8.00      .0      0.0          I.00               3 09140        Ito3.280   I,4.430                                          ,340.330
13303   t.o.m......... (..1;g04 rosv.13          300  32   A. i.j.0r.4    3.338932   3.134.323          3.03
3330   C..3i..  30.1                             300  33      .rwIo4              .3         3.83          32I 
I 3123  4.4£01  8013   0.0.0                      3          T3 . 35.14          .3         83.094         300                                                                          584        15  c                       ~,
133024n..b~g .jO.g... 40.o.3  0030  330333   1  o.3.3o.4         3.82         2.82          33        00         .1     08            .lO,o                             Ii;"         2.5
1203  3.30 ..,...300                 030  333   A."IO   IL 40334      48           400:    6.13          .0       00       .110910                                       ;S20 134402
3302   opooo.8    l9o$   0.                   30,00   LT   I'll 0.plo4        3I.313       432.33          4
34011            0043me331121.33A.,3I.9$I .38.20  3300.33 33  2.0339
10              courage  CLs to Otte           M                                                                                       CE go9I
t 0   4   4   I   V   3        .10    31  3'NS      031 A.00381.    014104033?30  I'                     OT   O   04   4039                     1031  01?319118413                            3401011   9   400433333
120330  0
05012-               --vt.eto13.33000   L                   A. .8...  ..3.y                    I3          44                                                             )~31        3334         2,0                                              3.3
*.   .      .      .     .~~~~~ ---------103                                                                                            ---1-------. .------.... ..................                   ..                            .     . . ........C
1031  3    1    33            Fr      10011 I                 33021    j ~~~~~AX90A~.l..    I A-.1  INATDU3LO   3.930   1(301134    TOTAL  3I0143L1L1 I.30 L        4(33IQ0111023if   TOTAL    8=...  303      t                  SUDG
COD                                                           0           s monz          ,..oo.jco.. 0.9.1   301    j3US   ius  I              U           Is         SU            us          3      I       ' i  g.
003  313.3.3  8           I      3 30   I..o..~    I           .33  3      .63  I    .33  I        .00I 4.34133.003    01.3                        3   33.38      00.00    3,0.9.0I                          II            3I .34u14
TOTAL             34130   31?                                                                                                                         3I  31.30                     3403     334.803                                        I0.348.340
33A383138310  133100VZ33144~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                             1   50t0,1
A30 G .. I       3 .01 - ,             4     50          100333109      0231. 304   103? 35                    21  0T   3  9034  9110033            3      300001 933:011  49?  90416 844 10193     0    01131031380  03842 3    O
............                          ~                    0939      -0-----                                                                                            .........- ...........I------     -----    ------
T001   T  a                                              I1                         I                      I          aIII11   .110I 303   1  334434                                            30      38083330003    I11  71051  3   .9303
.... . .......... . ............                                      -..      A...1     30113.1.     3.30     --33-0-3- ----------  -33  ------------------------1--1...........
9030 33.1.33 I~~~~~~~..00.....  3  3003  3       3            I            I          I~~~~~2..9.   0.00C   AC  I I I TIEII   0.0 I I                                                                      330i8I   ,3.3
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~            ~ ~ ~ ~~~2                                           ----------------------..                           ...........................3      ..............3..
10    of 1 bs34AI34C3A  CE P-70I  £33                                       II033,439I12.003I.3330tI  .J'14 1$  .60.1 113.1     02333.I 3.443 I 4 1044.314
-  ----------- - --- - - - ------- - - - --                                    -------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
T O TTi ---- VW'                                                                                         &12.130 1   99'.010 I 1.1'.6.140                                          I A I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11



NATIONAL  NET MAINTENANCE  PROCRAM  1994
HAINI ROADS             |       CON?LEIEIATARV ROADS         !        FtDER  IiBADE                         T1Tk  B      . lD 7 T
;     I s     I                                                     V     1            A 1  C  I                               I
;____                 P4YEb  6RAYED   ! -     !  TOTAL    PAYE  GRAVEL      EA -RTH    TQTh--   PAYED   GRWELI EARTh!  TOTAL          PaED         VEL pEMTf          1,.I
1-i   LA PAZ            1       155      219        565     264      239      294        708      40   1,359   2,969       4,3671       494      1,744 !; 4F  j    ,?   I
1D-2   cMOUGISACA  i    53       5171     166        791               47      211        259          |   32! 3,t5          ,3           5          4                 4,33
ID-3   1RIJA            173     164                 337              308      164        472      10      38?   1,413      1,806        183        854      1,577      2,615
D-4   COCHIABAINA       591     119                 711       7       57      131        195        5     911   1,054      1,69         604      1,087      1.185     2,676 i
D-S   SP4T6 CRUZ         32     177       13       821               651      4q 99     i51       55      966   3,134      S,l   17 687          I,1          6.4 1   6.1217
0-6   ORURO            225      163                 388              S96      586       981               422! 4,616       5M38        I225        981 !   5.22     6,497
D-7   POTOSI             21     230 u      7        258             1i2 2     319        421              24    2 4,15?    4,354         '1        575 !   4.477      5,073
1D-8   TUPIZA       |        |                                   | 191      283          474t         .,  384s  ?,171 1       5551           1       75     2.4541   3,0?q:
I ~ ~            -         -                           -    -    -                                                  ___  ___ I .__ i__ ._-I_. _
D-9   BENI              255     206      534   1,944                  43      287        330                2                 161 !I    25" 3e5               98b       .
D-15  PANDO                      39      139        178                       115        IIS                      187         187                   39        441        45I
TOTAL   E     Y                                   -         -                           - 58I        I -.    ,j                   I       .            I             38,,
|TOThL COUNTRYf     2,137 |1,071 |1s378 | 5,192q    211   2,026   2,889               5,S106 !    1'   4,994 122,868    21,q7965 |    .518     8,8°7 |j¢92      38,243 !
I.



I 30001it  I 13$150  I  I  I       I           I           I           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I "A=                                                                   2iOiit     i   2IU?U It   Ifi  It              O
fltOgiO    ...                                                                                         ------------I--     I           I          1I                                    I  tn I-M                          *,s.~oinIo
not    I           O~~~~Astun  VW " OM tS0tiI     505    I    089    1 Im  01$            ii        Svit  Ait sins  I           mm 5    *t*   "oo il V11   Llmib              3 15        l ~ I       S.I              I       I
I                                                                                                                           I            I                                                                  I 2002~~44 R3 O AR   X X R2 R2J
I W01013i6   I           I         I          I   ntleiii  I 0111itei'  I ioftOl g I   - ---I                                                                                                                  £12013   211          iVIOS 
--0i1   -------   ---ur --~-                                                                                                                                                                             -  -     -  -     -  -    ~     -
I iuiiitti I OGViOVitI  I      I 1$1*1~~~~~~~151   Zi3$5   I     8sUt1    I netil  I                                                                                     ZSiii2AiiIS11 1,44        2lO     iid   1a       0
ooo¶tSr   I   1  I I  S.IUO 0)t000    00Si6                        1 019           00  I 00        000         0i53      t1~ist       o*'sin        .  t*-,0          oil   I                    m.....50i o...,? io
onoooo~~s  j ooe~~ooe  j               I            I          I            I           I        I        I           I~S ...2I                          Iao  IlimlS a I                                   I   Ao.go  31ol*i io
in)    I    toO  In)   Is~~ oso-I    not    I    tot    f    Lot  n It    o   I Slet  I a Ii I       580a  a00 2 9    I    "3    aco   sumb                    nmio2~
I  --- ----------- ------~--~-----…-------.----------------------------…---------…-…- …----                                                             ----. -         …        -----------------              -------- --------.- …-   -
c9f,c" I  Ic"qr                         0                            I6 ttItoOOdo                                      o                                      got      p*jss  6?     02  04                                 t5*11   505OO
,**,  imot      ~~~04t9t      In:0           iso oo          ..bS,g.                            tns
SlfliO                *                     OtA,i Oti                  tOliO1                                                                                   oo         p*is  s         s   0         .,s..1;0r'qm,                         o
13300    1  1  "SAG"I    I jjmsatnb3 I    go"s'n    I .111vulvm 1   7SI  I.Nabl 110"Iff"" I smuml  i-m" I    i- -.0 I    nen                                       O1*5I  2016 555 55103 LIf
-------------o------i -----o n-c                   o-n                    ---------nt   -renO 10055                 2ii                020    -io*5 ------
On,*it  S                 O;ni~~~~~~~~~Z  @iOGi    nsons                   no-n~~~~~7vm    UORCn  t=o-n21W     Li en-n nns      non soM    I  s      io      ums Ies    Auns,u                      ~      ~     ii.i    o
niooi                   cr-on       oCn        niot                      le          ;-     05        00         4~t0        0000       iOOt            05t*0&       E  50                     £  *10515   *.0lne   00
----------0-- - - -------- --------        ------ --------n----o------------------------------------------ -                -  -- -------.    0v a                                                                         **qa  t S    II    a   )  .   ; A   o 
501000  nt9nOt     nntiso      n,no,i                  irit         trot   inn       teo         l0011      itiOi       ttl*O0      2 qosus asso  155-2  s~~~~       asi2n.din, p.. ions..  i.to*'n  0011
iGoii  15050       9t300       ittil                   0410         loll   0i~~~~~~~i   iC-n     005)       tOll        tO)*O           05 P~~~~~A  f0155  S     boo.i)sbO quo *i*Ofplit.05S 11 ImilnI  5050 "i
norzono     OiCioI*i   no~~owt       oieooo    ono*oo        tOOt         *i~ti  tOO       n-o       ~Oo0O    tItafl          tne'sn         'a ,..'i    us no                                   ins d 5 50  nocm
n,oogit                *                       u-l         corS%       00955      0000          o          to-I    role      0S10        ignoi    til-tSt       04900           "1: P '5Ib  011 not                 i"s i   00  A   *s   oo
05950:  I  009500  e'~~~~~iP  iOitO     00911       iS-i         or:    IL-s      1i~~~~~~~~i  )tfl     OSOaSi       nioo,          'a P**'4   £51 too                    IiOJis&5 atom biasi's  1000 '119111=    lo'
not  tot  iso    n.b 0,,0    isO   000         not         inS    ~~~~            not      not  j    silt  josono 0..s3¶ Z10Tb 5sa*s  ?Tuuo S  b            1 j R nonl    p 139oboI                      I.   -       t
03321          iifi     ISS15        p1 0?  -iz.          ijliO      It110        11111             0     11 0)13 lOis           010211     "         51   1    2:1C              P"0110  "I W15t
01,    I                                                                                                                                                                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 S   
-mao  (j101osos W  limos -nooK?~~ot I       ooctsi 2511  i).0020   1lo0                1*02  I30  ii'i 51005 £1115           I 510  ±    1501        51W         10101                                                
£20 e",1 .s 0 85  253V1 310112  60: 101 6?   1101 011 VI      Is:Z (441831                                               "                              T
00210,                                                                   ml ;:&:a .8          I                     '.;'  ;.,=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



NATIONAL NET MAINTENMCE PROGRAM 1995
miltl ROADS                    CONPLEBEIITARY ROADS                FEEDER ROADS               ifTlk pS   DISTRICT
!                  IPAVYED {6RRVEARTH    TOTAL    PAYED  GRAEL   EARTH    TOTAL    PAVED  GRAVEL i E?RT               TOTA L     OfiVED    6RA;      FARTh    i8,: 
0-I   LA PAZ         233       155     219        6Y7     264     230     294        780      9B                                                             ___59   2.969  4,416  589  _,744    ,4. 
D-2   CHUOUISACA        53     -1 | 6b           791               47     211        258              327   3,805     3,332         5;       945      3,393 j     361
lD3   TARIJA           173     164               337              3:8 164            472      1: 3:2 1,413            :,::; 1'3 854                   1,577
D-4   CGCHABANBA      591      119               711       57               131      195                1   1,B54     1,969        684                1,1d5     - :,876
0-5   SANTA CRUZ      695      177      13       885              651     499      1,151      55      66   3,134      4155         75      1.794     3.647      6,199
D-6   ORURO           225      163               308              39b     596       9" I              422   4,bb1    5.3           225       981     5,282 (  6,407
D-7   POTOSI           21      239       7       258              192     31         421             24?2  4,152      4,394         21       5151   4,4771   5,91
0-5   TUPIlA                                                      .191    283        474              384   2,171     2,555  _               575     2,4541   s,g?9
0-9   BENI            261      477     534      1,271              43     2D7        330                2     159       Ibl1       269       522       988      1,76?
0-1I  PANDO                      39    139       178            1-5                  115 l |                  187       187 |                 39       4411       480
TOTAL COUNTRY   j 2,252   2,094   1,078      5,425      271   2,026   2,889      S,IB6 T   161   4,994 122,8       28,916     2,684 T 9.114 j 26,828    36,62b
I.S Li



£313141V    VOlE  IIoOtAA     AND 1040  vAIUrttEMUct 103001
400TisM UAIOTZMAMcE 3343
I    T    I    t          13t1E101?      AI343L    VOICE ACCOLET 30D1$S I       335 COSTS (ST 10111 4CC0403T2IU& 403050. 3 14?331 301CC ACCOIIO)                          433015 33011  31 t11C              TM"O
I    £    Hf                          a .5    ct".           301         A-al        jus.1a.     551Tr543.5   L.130k  0505321.    TTAL    r5111114L.    4.4301     V013f030t      TOTAL     3A.4.  "ato c..        TOTaL.       3U300
1.d..a  u,43                QUU3ITISTI  oo0.3  "us..  c..1. Co...o .    Sus 05 $51ws SI                                      3                       $33s-_                            $uas..a 53  t  O
So0,  3.          1.8. 9McEa                      40  112   ?.4..  1a         933.533      323.416    2520.3         0.20     2.54    3.35          4.51      02.163    310.100       "43,143      344.150                                        134.730
3002  1.ubtq  .Stb .i'.5pu.t                     33  3a   florid La            34*830       54.440      533.3        5.33     0. is    2.03         47is     500.330      1.4y0       tfa.m        210.430                                        210.8306
3001    at. by bso 4.04 Elcdt,.                  3000  33    1.,4 R.           33 .334     132304       244.0        0.30     0.31    0.43          1.34      42.110      *.130        34.340      500.430to 50440
3001  S.. i.lob .qslp..s.o  44au030)           3.513  ml3   1.4 go.           123.003      233.063      343.4        0.33     0.341   0.40          5.33     341.4.00     3.350       itl.113      331.3)0                                            .0
30ot  Ci.y p.Igb                                  30 ml53    9.3. a.          33*314       53.333    1343.8         0.34      3.23   31.03        22.9?       30.350    30.00   1013.140   I.342.0,0                                            3*342*00
3505       a3. t3   *boulders wvi   eol *i1int       35.-111 P..*  3.           I*3          1.343      332.0        0.00     3.51   30.33         32.13                  53.439       40.843       40.300                                         of.3so
3303    sios.d0     v.I3sla   e ..4.Q sooIa       53  353m0        .. .. 3.     I.043       31.011    I3313.3         .00     0.33   13.01        31.13                  314.20        01.430      148.440                                        14.44
3303    #4..45q 405.41.1    oh..                  to  "534   ...*             33333       333 303   14435.1         0.0       1.40    3.0          3.44                 311,0   13 33.34    3.354.133                                          3.1433*33
3303  04sals  ut ..3   .r ...                     30  0.3        3.1.4  .      34           161691    4214.3         0.00     3.04    4.33          3.33                 It033        830.330   14.030.10                                       3.030.It0
330   L.I. tst$l.. olth grinS                     to  l5      .        a       414013       144133    40144.3        0.00      3.13    4.33        53.J3                 41.4       Sti.04314    4.334.400                                       .34.400m
I1305  CI.a.5.49 .41tscb.(p ... d .0th *4jt3    Soo03.        ..4           3.240.3.3    3.?43.5338    3003.3        0 0.0C.04    *.oo             oz                    5.3 043.500jo            303.0 Goa,53.633
310*  S..5.gto violation. bT I404                Soo  5. total ha             3234.33      533.01       33.          0.03     0.31    0.34         0.40                   2443         33.030      IS,.400                                        Is3.400
330   cI... in  1...4-400.b.. 61 h.34            310  P. V.~.4F.              23.330       35.440       053          .00      0.41    0.33         1.30                   3343        34.300       20.430                                          2330
1003         wa.4sd 3.4.03t0.. CosooS           .0    5        ....t   3 .4031.    3$.034.410    050.                0.00     0.01    0.00         0.01                5.4.30         333.410   3.134.333                                       1.334.200
10    ...1. sl-ac  f..3ac..4 growl)      3800i      A. 3.q.r.4   0.303015   3.343.011    431.4
"305  C604.h,134 So.11984uog.0                   100  us    A. gvpIti.4         5aS3        13 303       11.
is     od-    tcnit   t  la fi0.                 530  33   A. C.yS.3.a         35.133       51.133       14.2
111c.b5.3 .43V.g.te. ed4u  i0ssu            Ito  us1   A. r.".he4          2.4360       3.430       33.3
1304  CTO.b5q aU  ..results .r.941..             33   3      As raST.4          1.301        3.30)      '23.3
. . 5 ......... .....4..             . .. .................1005811
COOlI  U    30    0.07  A~..                   331        4.a.0       £.a.    3541*043   1304   00133            TOTL       3ITCZSSS    50303       IQ3SSDST       TOTA       4a~.a0    a34..S       TTSLIujooa rS
3004  SI..t .11ol -PPA                       I.130  35          ZW.  0         1.3        433.332       003         01         .03     .8          01        4124'.23     25.030,    330.?33       3.3                    334.030
3003 IT..t..a.t ..rff... _.V.7.                                                                                     3.00                           0.a,                                     0           00
is0  Ih3    .5o...                                3   5    1,...0t fd  o      t 1.  333   Ito 53.45    1353.3       0.00        I                  N 0.43 313 44340,2    3.314.303   1.433.430                                                   1.43S.,3
TOTAL    IEIIOOIC  £SM?CUIUCE                                                                                                   334.243    103.323   4.348.320   1.043.91 1                                      I 3.044.034. 4  .
.-.........~~~~ .    ~      ~           501ST    I OOOJTS3E  S             9 II I 9                   -.-                                                                                                  .3A05T5100T5 9S    99 
IC?               591?              343                * ---  I-i,-t                                                     -                                         30941741                      .[1C.
...-.--. . ..- . ---.5...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                                                                                          ...1..........f
ME            £   R      £           I .3       c.33                              a.0          ..! 54S15            .31   0011         TTL        54054.         ..0        QStL3  £   OTL          Ama) 310x               TOTAL   I359?
;oLg.so  3~~~~~p393.s...0.  I  II  I            I            I          10.351               I               0.00              j           I                      0                       13.323.10012.132.1401~~~~~~~~'m'AL  71'.......
TOTAL  SSAIUTL4AECE    155110913514?                                                                                                      ol          @1           01          0            I           I 3..153.1000 I0 6.  3.132.3 401izi
S0 S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~5



MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
1992-1995
SUMMARY
10 2 C I  I C C O UN T                                            PIRIODIC HAINTiEiNCI (BY CONTUCT)
TOTAL
ROUI8II    PERItODIC    I CERGINCY                                     TOTIL               PIAVD  ROAD   GRlViL ROAD   IANTIACE
TEAR  AiITIVANCIKNA IRTINANCl ACTIW1TISS                                                                                                                         POGAI
[if       SUS          IN         0us          W          IDS         IN         IDS          IN           IDS           a            $US            IDS
1992       37,161        12.9       9,128         4.2                     1.2     37,161        18.2       218.4           10.9       258.3 7.2                      36.3
40
1993       37,252        13.1       8,715         4.2       .             1.1     37,252        18.4       246.?           14.8       258.0            7.6          40.2
Lq94       38,243        13.8       8,897         4.9                     1.2     38,243        19.9       185.3            7.1       145.0            2.6          29.6
1995       38,626        14.8       9,114         5.1                     1.2     38,626        21.1       169.6            6.7       134.0            3.2           31.0
1992-1995     _              4.5                  18.3                     4.7                   77.5       817.4           39.5       795.0           21.0          137.0
'-a
.                 1~~~~~~~5'oI



- 110 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Maintenance EpuiRment and Workshops
Equipment Fleet
1.    Traditionally, external financing to SNC has been mainly allocated
either to equipment acquisition or to construction programs requiring new
equipment (not adequate for maintenance activities), which is transferred to
SNC at the end of the programs. So, SNC has a large fleet of construction and
maintenance equipment with 1672 units, operating or available to operate and
about 1500 old units to be sold at an auction. Out of the 1386 units
available in the current SNC road maintenance fleet, 400 (29%) are less than 5
years old; 215 (15%) between 5 and 10 years old; 383 (28%) 10 to 15 years old;
and 388 (28Z) 11 to 15 years old. (At present, 308 units need rehabilitation
or major repairs). Table 1 shows the various equipment groups and the current
condition of each group. In addition, new units have been added to SNC's
fleet during 1991, financed by several loans, credits and donations. This
financing has allowed SNC to purchase 466 new units in 1991 (some of them
under IDA RIC-II, Credit 1828-BO) which gradually will replace old units.
Table 2 contains the list of this new equipment. At present, SNC has a
shortage of current funds to satisfactorily operate such a fleet. In
addition, IDA recommends that some periodic maintenance be carried out by
contract and this is not consistent with additional equipment purchases.
Furthermore, the current road maintenance fleet of SNC, after the new
purchases, is large enough to carry out the 1992-95 routine maintenance
program, if it is maintained and rehabilitated in a proper and timely manner.
Therefore, purchases of new equipment are not necessary for the maintenance
programs 1992-1995, unless new units are justified by future adjustments of
these programs.
Equipment Management
2.      Equipment management was poor before 1991.  Many units are in poor
condition because they were not properly operated and maintained. SNC's
capital investment in equipment must be better protected by observing regular
preventive maintenance. The first steps in this direction were taken under
technical assistance financed under Credit 1587-BO, to design an equipment
management system (SAE), now in phase of implementation in the five southern
districts with CAP financing, and in the other five districts with IDA
financing through the Export Corridors Project (Credit 2012-BO). With the
implementation of the SAE, completed in January 1992, SNC will be able to
achieve satisfactory programs for equipment rehabilitation, repairs and
maintenance, matched to the real needs arising from the road maintenance
programs.
3.    Furthermore, the existing structure for equipment administration must be
strengthened. Annex 6 contains a proposal for adapting SNC's current
personnel organization, including equipment administration to the future
decentralization. In the future, each equipment unit should preferably be



- 111 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
assigned to a speciiic operator who will be responsible for its operation and
maintenance. These operators should be trained under a program within the
SNC. Due to the lack of tenure in operator positions, the program should be
permanent. The training will serve to improve the present quality of
operation and maintenance. This Project includes a training program for
equipment operators and SAE users (see Annex 11).
EguiDment Rehabilitation
4.    Equipment rehabilitation can save SNC thousands of dollars in capital
investment. In view of its recent and approved equipment purchases, SNC
should not buy new units until a plan for the rehabilitation of its equipment
is finalized. This plan must be responsive to the equipment needs of the road
maintenance programs. Consequently, an Equipment Rehabilitation and Major
Repairs Program has been prepared by SNC with technical assistance financed
under Credit 2012-BO. This program includes the needs for equipment
rehabilitation and major repairs during the period 1992-95 and was prepared
including all units more than three years old in 1991. It is based on the
needs in equipment availability to carry out maintenance works, included in
the 1992-95 maintenance programs, by force account. Table 3 shows the list of
units to be rehabilitated in that period. The cost of the program would be
US$3 million, financed by the Project.
5.    Ideally, the equipment rehabilitation program should be carried out in
SNC workshops. This would be possible if SNC workshops had proper tools,
workshop equipment and competent personnel. The first two conditions have
basically been met (Credit 1587-BO provided funds for it) but SNC's workshop
organization is still the limiting factor to carrying out a program of such a
magnitude. Until this situation improves, rehabilitation will have to be
carried out by contract. This contracting system will have an additional
advantage of preventing the expansion of SNC staff without tenure of their low
salary level positions. Allowing SNC mechanics to work in the local
contractor workshops, could reduce the cost to SNC and provide mechanics with
valuable on-the-job training. The firms to be considered for contracting
equipment rehabilitation could be local equipment distributors, if their
capabilities, facilities and experience with SNC are acceptable.
EguiRment Operational Costs and Repair
6.    During the years of the project, large resources will be needed to
operate the equipment for the road maintenance programs. Table 4 shows a
summary of the equipment requirements on fuel, lubricants, tires and spare
parts to make SNC's equipment available and operational in the period 1992-95.
To ensure that sufficient funds are available to operate the equipment, the
Project will finance US$11.8 million for acquisition of tires and spare parts
for repairs, during the period 1992-95. Close supervision will be needed to
monitor resources allocated and to ensure that they are applied effectively to
maintain the equipment availability and utilization.
7.    Minor repairs included in the equipment repair programs will be carried
out by SNC's and local suppliers workshops that have adequate facilities. In
many cases, these minor repairs could be done efficiently, at low costs, by
contracting mechanics operating small workshops. In these cases, SNC would



- 112 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
provide the necessary spare parts and supplies and the contractor would
provide the mechanics. As an alternative, the workshop would provide its own
labor for specific tasks and would guarantee the quality of the labor. Since
the work capacity of the contracted mechanics and the workshops is limited,
flexible procurement procedures would be used to award small contracts for the
repair of SNC equipment. SNC would be the responsible for the work done under
this arrangement.
Workshop. Warehouse and WorkeomDound Organization and Needs
8.    Adequate work compound workshops and warehouses are essential to
maintaining of a road network and an equipment fleet. SNC's facilities are
classified according to their geographical location, and type and complexity
of mechanical work to be performed. Since SNC's warehouses and workshops were
generally inadequate, the 1587-BO Credit financed the rehabilitation of these
facilities. However, some of them still need important improvements. The
cost is estimated at US$3.5 million. Table 5 shows a breakdown of the
resources that will be needed for this purpose.



- 113 -
7E                                                                                                       ANNEX 4
Table l (i)
SERVICIO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS
(DRAFT)            SNC'S ROAD MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT BY AGE AND CONDITION
3                               s  AGE OF EXISTENT EQUIPMENT    :  IN SERVICE          :   REPARABLE
a          EQUIPMENT            : aauuuuuuuuauuyuuuumuuamuuwuuuuuuuuuuuumwuuuumuuuauaa.-.uuu........
:         DESCRIPTION           s         :                                N s  s  a  s EED s   s   s
0 05 O   5-10 :10-15 3 +15  :TOTALsGOOD sREPAIR:TOTAL:MIN0R:REHAB3TOTAL:
sLOADERS 4 2M3                              5 :   19      11: 35s 20s   10 :30             5:  10:  1
:LOADERS  -> 2M3                   31       7 :    5      24: 67:  54s    6 :60            3:   3:   6:
:M0TORGRADERS : 125 BP          : 28:   28 :   17:  101: 174: 30:   44:  74: 20:  20:  40:
MOTORGRADERS < 125 UP          : 12 s    7 :        I       s  19:  10:    9 :19:   4 :13 :17
:TRACTOR <a 125  P              :  12:   20 :   30:   29: 91:  50:   42:  92: 31:  21:  52:
:AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR           :      :    2:   23 s        : 30: 24:    3:2:               :   1:   1
:PRIMARY CRUS8ER                :  5 ,             4       5 :14 :11:    3 :14:              :   1:       :
sSECONDARY CRUSHER              :     s       :    5:    3       8:   6:    2:   8 :                t  0 :
:VIBRATING COMPACTOR            :      s      :    3:        s   3:   3:         :  3:       :      :  0 :
:DUMP TRUCK -- 5M3                  9 :   86    120:   21   236    46:    93: 139: 25: 30: 55:
:WATER TRUCK 6000-10000 LTS    :  12 :    1:    5:    8    26    21:    5 : 26:   1:   2 :  3 :
:PICK UP 4X4                    : 39 :    9       39      17: 104:  83        15: 98:  10:   2 : 12:
:TRUCKS 4-8 TON                 :13 :             18:   36:  67: 35:   18: 53:   8:   3 :  11:
:ASPHALT IRRIGATOR TRUCK        s   1:        :    4:        :  5 :  3:    2 :  5:                1:   1:
:WATER PUMP D a 6 PLG           s      :      s      s                 :             0                  0
-COMPRESSOR 525 C.F.M.          :      :   5:   30:   25:  60: 34:   20:  54:   11t   1:  12:
:ASPHALT 8EATER                 t      s      :      s       s   0:      :       :   0:      :      s   0:
:COMPACTORS                         2 :    2:    6:    15    25:  15:    3 :18:   2:   1:   3:
:NEUMATIC 8AiMMER               :   2:    1:          :      :  3:   3:          :  3:        :     :   0:
:PATCE UNITS                    :   6 :   5:         :       :11:   5:    6:  11:            :      :  0:
:THERMAL TRUCKS                 :  3 s             2:        :  5:   2:    1:   3:           s      :  0:
:VI3RATING ROLLER                    1:    2:     5 s           8:   3:         :  3:       :      a  0 :
:ASPHALT MIXER PLANTS           :      :    2:    1:    1:   4:          :       :  0:       :      :   0 :
:CLASSIFIER PLANTS              a  2:       1: s           1:   4     3        1     4                  0: 
:DUMP TRUCKS > 7.5 M3           : 148:    8                9 : 165:  40:   16:  56: 28: 20:  48:
:UTILITY VEHICLES               : 20:       6     20:   15:  61:  62:    7 :69:   3:   3:   6
:PICK-UPS                       : 27               1 :    16: 44s 83          15 :98:   4:  5:   9:
:JEEPS                          s  8        7 :    8 :   12: 35: 29:    6 :35:   3:   1:   4:
:MOBILE LUB-UNITS               :      s      :    4 :    3:   7 :  4 :    1:   5 :  2:   1:   3:
:REPAIR TRUCKS                  s      :   7 :    1 :   16:  24:  14:    6 :  20:2:                 :   2s:
:FIAT - BEDS TRUCKS             :  9 s             2 :          11: 11:          :11:        :      s   0: 
:FUEL TRUCKS                    :10 :    4 :    11s   15:  40: 31:    9 : 40:   6:   1: 7s                :
"""stassnannnsusinsswwss"$YtaYwn.lsfulS.flflflSYtw#SfUl                U*lUflflSflflUUflflwawsaww"Sfl$
:            TOTAL              : 400 : 215 :  383 : 388 :1386 : 735 : 343 :1078 : 168 : 140 : 308
BUILD EQUIPMENT TOTALS    s       s      :          :   :286:       :       :     s
EQUIPZENT TOTALS        s      :      :      s       :1672:      :       :     :     :      :



- 114 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1 (ii)
SERVICO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS
COMPLEMENTARY EQUIPMENT LIST
: T  I P  0    D  E   E  Q  U  I  P  0   s OPERATING :  REPAIR   :TOTALS:
:TRACTOR  > 220 HP                         :        34            8:   42 :
:TRACTOR > 300 HP                          :         4:           2:    6:
:MOTOTRAILLAS AUTOCARGANTES                          1:           2:    3:
:MOTOTRAILLAS CONVENCIONALES               :         8:           3:   11s
:WHEEL TRACTOR                                       6:           0:    6:
:NEUMATIC ROLLER COMPACTOR                 :        11:           4:   15:
:VIBRATING REMOLCABLE COMPACTOR                      8 :         14 :  22 :
:HANDLE MANUAL ROLLER                      :         7:          16 :  23:
:COMPACTADOR MANUAL PLACA                  :        25 :         22 :  47 :
:CRUSHER EQUIPMENT SO/100TONS.                      0 :          2 :    2 :
:BACKHOES                                  :         2:           0:    2:
sWHEEL BACKHOES                            :         1:           0:    1:
:TANDEM POWERED SCRAPERS                   :         3            6:    9 :
:TRACK-TYPE SCRAPERS                                 2 :          3 :    5 :
:ESCOBA MECANICA                                     1 :          4:    5 :
:PAVEMENT BREAKER                                    1 :          3:    4 :
:ASPHALT PLANT                             :         0:           0:    0 :
:STRIPPED PAINTING MACHINE                           5 :          0      5
:ELECTRICAL GROUP 10 KW.                   :        17 :         18 :  35
sELECTRICAL GROU 50 KW.                    :        23 :          4 :  27
:ELECTRICAL GROUP 200 KW.                  :        13 :          3 :   16 :
…=======ma======s======== =~=-…====--=…===s====2a
T O T A L S               :       172:          114 : 286:
(1 - SAA.WK1)



- 115-
ANNEX 4
Table 2
NEW EQUIPMENT LIST FOR -SERVICIO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS"
GERMAN-JAPAN-CAP & O.E.C.F. LOANS
GC        RIC    :  CAP    s C.V.   : C.V.   s             :
DESCRIPTION           s G.C.   : RIC II  :COCHABAMBA: POTOSI  : LA PAZ  s TOTAL
*  :      :         iSTA. CRUZ s         s
:BULLDOZER SCRAPERS TRACTORS     s         :                  6 t        7         7 s      20
tBULLDOZER WHEELS TRACTORS       :       2            :       6:         5           2      13:
sMOTORGRADERS                    :       6:           :       5:         7:        7        25:
:WHEEL LOADERS                           2:        5 :        3:           :       5:       15:
:CRUSHER PLANT                                     2 :           s       2:        2 :       6:
aPORTABLE CLASSIFIER             :         :       10 I          s         :         :      10:
:PATCH UNITS                     :       8          O 1                    :         :      18:
:HYDRAULIC EXCAVATORS            5       S t       6 :        4 :          :         :      15 :
,FLAT-BED TRUCRS                         1:        2:            :       1:        1      5 :
.DUMP TRUCK                      :      24 :      20:         16:       25 :      25 :     110 :
:WATER TRUCK                                      40:            :       2 :       2 :      44 :
:FUEL TRUCK                              5:           :       2:         2 :       2 :      11 :
:TRUCKS 4-8 TON.                 :         :      10:                    2:          :      12 :
:TRACTOR-DUMP TRUCKS             :         :          :        1 :         :         :       I :
:REPAIR TRUCKS                   :         :          :          :       1         1:        2 :
:PICK UP 4x4                     :         :      30          7:         6 :       6:       49 :
:UTILITY VEHICLES                :         :          :          :       1 :         :       1 
:AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS           :         :          :       4:           :         :       4:
sPORTABLE COMPRESSOR             :         :       10 :          :         :         :      10 :
:TAMPER COMPACTOR                :         :          :       5:           :         :       5
:NEUMATIC ROLLOVER COMPACTOR     :         :          :          :      4 :        4 :       8
:ELECTRIC GENERATOR                        :      10:         5:        2 :        2:       19:
:ROLLOVER HANDLE COMPACTOR       :      11 :          :          :         :         :      11
:PAVEMENT BRAKERS                :      20:           :          :         :         :      20:
:STRIPPING EQUIPMENT             s       4 :                    :          :                 4
:DRILLING EQUIPMENT              :       1 :          :          :         :                 I 1
:CONCRETE TUBES FACTORY          :       3 :          :          :         :         :       3
:STATIONARY TANKS                :         :          :          :      6:         6:       12 
:NEUMATIC HAMMERS                :         :                     :      12 :         :      12 
wXaa mm  ama  mammaa   muwamumammam mg=-mU "a=-         a  aa tS-u-""-"aUUUUmmumamam  aaaaaaaaaaamS
:             TOTAL              s      92       155:        64:       85:        70:      466:
G.C: GERMAN LOAN MERCANCIAS II
RIC II PHASE II - O.E.C.F.
CAP PROJECT. CAF LOAN.- COCHABAMBA-SANTA CRUZ ROAD RAHABILITATION
C.V. JAPAN DONATION - RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT. POTOSI
C.V. JAPAN DONATION- RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT. LA PAZ
1 - 5b.wkl)



- 11fi -
SERVICIO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS
ANNEX 4
Table 3 (i)
EQUIEMNT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
(1992-1993)
(1 - 5D.Vkl)
TYPE O0       UNITS    UNIT COST         TOTAL      REPLACING    REP. COST./
FIRST PERIOD (1992-1993)        WORK                 OF REPAIRMENT       COST            COST     ADQ. COST.
TRACTORS 4 125 HP          REPAIR                3       4,750.00       14,250.00       88,000.00      5.40%
RECONSTRUCTION       2       18,500.00      37,000.00       88,000.00    21.02%
TRACTORS  c 160 BP         REPAIR               13       8,650.00      112,450.00      130,000.00      6.65%
RECONSTRUCTION      19       22,244.00     422,636.00      130,000.00    17.112
MOTOR GRADERS              REPAIR               14       7,650.00      107,100.00       95,000.00      8.05%
RECONSTRUCTION      20       18,250.00     365,000.00       95,000.00    19.21.
LOADERS                    REPAIR                5       6,250.00       31,250.00      100,000.00      6.25X
RECONSTRUCTION       8       17,500.00     140,000.00      100,000.00    17.502
DUMP-TRUCKS                REPAIR               24       3,500.00       84,000.00       55,000.00      6.36%
RECONSTRUCTION      32        9,850.00     315,200.00       55,000.00    17.91Z
WATER TRUCKS               REPAIR                1       2,500.00        2,500.00       50,000.00      5.00%
RECONSTRUCTION       1       8,760.00        8,760.00       50,000.00    17.52%
PMUL TRUCKS                REPAIR                4       3,840.00       15,360.00       50,000.00      7.682
RECONSTRUCTION       1       6,250.00        6,250.00       50,000.00    12.50%
PICK UPS                   REPAIR                9       2,750.00       24,750.00       19,000.00    14.47%
RECONSTRUCTION       4       5,500.00       30,000.00       19,000.00    28.952
REPAIRMENT TRUCKS          REPAIR                1       6,500.00        6,500.00       60,000.00    10.83%
RECONSTRUCTION       0               0           0.00       60,000.00      0.00%
COMPACTORS                 REPAIR                1       2,500.00        2,500.00       24,000.00    10.422
RECONSTRUCTION       1       6,000.00        6,000.00       24,000.00    25.00%
PERSONNAL CARRIERS         REPAIR                2       1,573.00        3,146.00       26,000.00      6.052
RECONSTRUCTION       2       5,629.00       11,258.00       26,000.00    21.652
JEEPS                      REPAIR                2       1,500.00        3,000.00       17,500.00      8.57%
RECONSTRUCTION       1       3,570.00        3,570.00       17,500.00    20.40%
TRUCKS                     REPAIR                5       2,500.00       12,500.00       50,000.00      5.002
RECONSTRUCTION       2      10,000.00       20,000.00       50,000.00    20.00%
COMPRESSORS                REPAIR                7       1,500.00       10,500.00       35,000.00      4.29%
RECONSTRUCTION       1       4,000.00        4,000.00       35,000.00    11.432
BUSES                      REPAIR                1       1,800.00        1,800.00       46,000.00      3.91%
RECONSTRUCTION       1       5,000.00        5,000.00       46,000.00    10.872
AGRIC. TRACTORS            REPAIR                0                           0.00       40,000.00      0.002
RECONSTRUCTION       1      10,500.00       10,500.00       40,000.00    26.25%
ASPHALT IRRIGATORS         REPAIR                0            0.00           0.00       70,000.00      0.00%
RECONSTRUCTION       1       9,500.00        9,500.00       70,000.00    13.57%
CRUSsERs                   REPAIR                0           0.00            0.00      120,GOO.00      0.002
RECONSTRUCTION       1      10,000.00       10,000.00      120,000.00      8.33%
ELECTRIC GENERATORS        REPAIR                0            0.00           0.00       13,000.00      0.002
RECONSTRUCTION       1       2,050.00        2,050.00       13,000.00    15.772
SUBTOTAL                              191                   1,838,330.00



- 117 -
SERVICIO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS
:: (1 - 5D.W1K)                                                                     ANNEX 4
Table 3 (ii)
EQUIPMZNT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
(1994-1995)
TYPE Of      UNITS    UNIT COST          TOTAL      REPLACING    REP. COST./
SECOND PERIOD (1994-1995)       WORK                 OF REPAIRMENT       COST            COST     ADQ. COST.
TRACTORS e 125             REPAIR                2       4,750.00        9,500.00       80,000.00      5.94S
RECONSTRUCTION       2       18,500.00      37,000.00       80,000.00    23.13?
TRACTORS e 160             REPAIR                8       8,650.00       69,200.00      130,000.00      6.65S
RECONSTRUCTION      12       22,244.00     266,928.00      130,000.00    17.11Z
MOTOR GRADERS              REPAIR               10       7,650.00       76,500.00       95,000.00      8.05:
RECONSTRUCTION      13       18,250.00     237,250.00       95,000.00    19.21:
LOADERS                    REPAIR                3       6,250.00       18,750.00      100,000.00      6.252
RECONSTRUCTION       5       17,500.00      87,500.00      100,000.00    17.50%
DUMP-TRUCKS                REPAIR               16       3,500.00       56,000.00       55,000.00      6.36:
RECONSTRUCTION      21        9,850.00     206,850.00       55,000.00    17.91'
WATER TRUCKS               REPAIR                0       2,500.00            0.00       50,000.00      5.00%
RECONSTRUCTION       1       8,760.00        8,760.00       50,000.00    17.522
FUEL TRUCKS                REPAIR                2       3,840.00        7,680.00      50,000.00       7.68%
RECONSTRUCTION       0        6,250.00           0.00       50,000.00    12.502
PICK UPS                   REPAIR                6       2,750.00       16,500.00       19,000.00    14.472
RECONSTRUCTION       2       7,500.00       15,000.00       19,000.00    39.47:
REPAIRMENT TRUCKS          REPAIR                1       6,500.00        6,500.00       60,000.00    10.83%
RECONSTRUCTION       0               0           0.00       60,000.00      0.002
COMPACTORS                 REPAIR                1       2,500.00        2,500.00      24,000.00    10.42?
RECONSTRUCTION       0       6,000.00            0.00       24,000.00    25.002
PERSONWAL CARRIERS         REPAIR                1       1,573.00        1,573.00       26,000.00      6.052
RECONSTRUCTION       1       5,629.00        5,629.00       26,000.00    21.65%
JEEPS                      REPAIR                1       1,500.00        1,500.00       17,500.00      8.57%
RECONSTRUCTION       0       3,570.00            0.00       17,500.00    20.40%
TRUCKS                     REPAIR                3       2.500.00        7,500.00      50,000.00       5.002
RECONSTRUCTION       1       10,000.00      10,000.00       50,000.00    20.002
COMPRESSORS                REPAIR                4       1,500.00        6,000.00      35,000.00       4.29%
RECONSTRUCTION       1       5,000.00        5,000.00       35,000.00    14.292
RECONSTRUCTION       1       2,050.00        2,050.00       40,000.00      5.13%
40,000.00      0.002
SUBTOTAL                              118                   1,161,670.00
GRAND TOTAL                             309                   3,000,000.00



- 118 -
fNMEX 4
;..- _. .
Table 3 (iii)
SUVZCZO NACIOlAL DE cAmNS
EQU1INT UEA3'7LZTATION PROGRIJ BY YlSR
.. .  _._._._.__-----.---.-------------t.........  .:...............--------------...............................................................-- -- 
2 s       1992     *         1993      1        1994     s         1995           T SOTAL
:ITEa   DKSCR2TZOW        sQT!      US$       tQTY     US$       tqTY     USS       *QTY     USS                $ USS$
1 sTRACTORS 4 125 82   s 4       35,875.00 a 1       15,375.00 i 3     30,225.00 t 1      16,275.00 a    97,750.00
2 TRACTORS c 160 a2   t 22    374,560.00 110    160,526.00 113    216,483.00 i 7    117,645.00 s  871,214.00
3 tMOTOR CRADERS        t 24    330,470.00 ilO    141,630.00 t15    203,938.00 t 8    109,812.00 t   785,850.00
4 sLOADERS              * 9    119,875.00 t 4       51,375.00 8 5      69,063.00 1 3      37,167.00 i   277,500.00
5 :DulS-TRUCKS          I 39    279,440.00 tl7    119,760.00 124    170,853.00 813        91,997.00 a   662,050.00
6 aWATER TRUCKS         a 1       7,882.00 s 1        3,378.00    1    8,760.00 I 0           0.00 a    20,020.CO
7 aTOlL TRUCKS          c 4      15,127.00 * 1       6,483.00 a1        4,992.00 : 1       2.688.00 a    29,290.00
8 SPICK UPS             a 9      38,325.00a x4       16,425.00 t 5     20,475.00 a 3      11,025.00 a    86,250.00
9 :RZPAZJMVIT TRUCKS   .  1       4,550.00 s 0        1,950.00 1 1      6,500.00 1 0           0.00 a    13,000.00
:10 SCOVACT0RS            I 1       3,950.00 s 1       2,550.00 t 1       2,500.00 a 0           0.00 a    11,000.00
ill sPERSONAL CARREES   t 3        10,083.00 t 1       4,321.00 1 1       4,681.00 a 1       2,521.00 a    21,606.00
s12 :JEEPS                s 2       4,599.00 t 3        1,971.00   1      1,500.00 3 0           0.00 a      8,070.00:
13 sTRUCKS                I 5      22,750.00 t 2       9,750.00 1 3      11,375.00 1 1       6,125.00 a    50,000.00
:14 :C0)IaWSSORS          I 6      10,150.00 * 2       4,350.00 i 4       8,483.00 a 2       4,567.00 :    27,550.00
:15 aRUSES                i 2       6,800.00 :0             0.00 I0           0.00 I 0           0.00 a      6,800.00:
:16 :AGRIC. TRACTORS      I 1      10,500.00 I 0            0.00 I0           0.00 I 0           0.00 a    10,500.00
s17 tASPEALT ZRRXCATORS  t 1        9,500.00 *0             0.00 I0           0.00 I 0           0.00:       9,500.00
*18 .CRUSEas              * 1      10,000.00  0             0.00 I0           0.00 a 0           0.00       10,000.00
:19 aELECTRIC OEN7RATORS s 1        2,050.00 t 0            0.00 s0           0.00   Q          0.00 s      2,050.00 a
…a:…..--..................I..................................................................... ..............
:136  1,298,486.00 uSS    539,844.00  706    761,828.00 :40    399,842.00 : 3,000,000.00
e                    3.      . ..-.…..........................e3................-.................. :..............
1 z                     43.282             17.992             25.39Z             13.332         100.00:
................ ....................................__._.....  ,,,_,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,.



- 119 -
ANN=EX 4
Table 4
SERVICIO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS
EQUIPMENT OPERATIONAL COSTS (US Million)
----------------------------------------
ITEM\YEAR           1992            1993             1994           1995          TOTAL
FUELS AND LUBS.      6,800,000.00    6,700,000.00    6,900,000.00  7,300,000.00   27,700,000.00
TIPES  '             1,600,000.00    1,600,000.00    1,700,000.00  1,700,000.00    6,600,000.00
GROUND ENGAGED
SPARE PARTS          5,600,000.00    5,600,000.00    5,800,000.00  6,200,000.00   23,200,000.00
=ssYs5====-wmC============== = === ====== …== ============="=a====  =:===========
TAL Sus.          14,000,000.00   13,900,000.00   14,400,000.00 15,200,000.00   57,500,000.00
THE OPERATIONAL COSTS WERE DEDUCTED FROM THE MAINTENANCE PROGRAM FOR 1992/1995
CALCULATED BY SAM ACCORDING WITH S.N.C. ROAD REQUIREMENTS
EQUIPMENT OPERATIONAL HOURS: 1000 hra/year
(5E.wk1)



- 120 -
ANNEX 4
Table 5
WORK CAMP AND WORKSHOP CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
(1992 - 1995)
DESCRIPTION                       UNIT       PARTIAL
UNITS      COST         COST
Resident Engineer's Office
Offices and housing
Technical Staff                       9       25,725       231,525
Work camp                            11        31,980      351,780
Dining room and Instalations          8       31,450       251,600
Workshop                             16        9,965       159,440
Watchman office                      16        6,132        98,112
Sectional
Sectionals                           45       31,980    1,439,100
Dining-room with instalations        45        15,800      711,000
Potosi District
Sub-Central Workshop             Global          ---       120,000
Oruro District
Offices and Workshop             Global          ---       47,000
Kitchen House-Hold               Global          ---       90,443
…------------------------------------- I---------------------------------
T 0 T A L    3,500,000
…----------------------- ----------------------- ------------------  ----



- 121 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 8
BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Infrastructure Financing Study
Obiectives
1.        The study of Road Infrastructure Financing is designed to provide
information on which the Government can make a decision on what standards of
design should be used for different types of roads, how the development and
maintenance of those roads should be planned, administered and undertaken, and
how that development and maintenance should be financed. The study will pay
particular attention to the extent to which road users should contribute to
the costs of road financing and how the costs should be allocated between
different types of road users. The study will also review the consequences of
the policy of road decentralization.
2.        The study is being undertaken in two phases.  The first phase,
which was financed by the Export Corridors Project and completed early in
1992, was designed to produce an initial analysis of the necessary and
justified costs of road maintenance using the current standards of design and
maintenance, and to provide an analysis of the alternative ways in which this
scale of maintenance activity could be financed.  The second phase will
include:
i)   recommendations for the detailed implementation of the
government's policy based on the conclusions of the first part
of the study;
ii) an extensive review of road design and maintenance standards
applied in Bolivia;
iii) a detailed road maintenance and construction cost analysis;
iv) a Road Investment Plan for the next four years; and
v)   a Road Maintenance and Investment Plan.
3.        The remainder of this Annex is in two parts.  The first part (A)
provides a summary of the methodology used, assumptions made in the analysis
and the recommendations of the first phase of the Study, while the second part
(B) provides the Terms of Reference for the second phase of the Study.
PART A: S.mmarv of Method, AssumDtions and Results
of the First Phase of the Road Financing Study
4.        The first phase of the Study was concerned with determining the
most appropriate way of ensuring that funds would be made available to finance



- 122 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 8
an adequate level of road maintenance, once the Project was completed. In the
introduction to this phase of the Study, a distinction was made between taxes
and user charges. The former were considered to be government charges which
were independent of the use made of a particular service or facility and whose
revenue formed part of the general government revenue fund. A user charge was
considered to be a charge for the use of a specific service, whose incidence
to the user was proportional to his use of the service, and the revenue from
which was used to finance the provision of that service. The provision and
maintenance of the national road network was considered as a service, similar
to that of the provision of other government communications networks, such as
post, telephone and railways. Finance for the maintenance of the
infrastructure of such services should be provided, so far as possible, by
users in proportion to the benefits they receive from the service. This
financing principle was taken as a guide in the analysis of alternative
financing mechanisms. A recognition that a proportion of the benefits of an
adequately maintained road network did not necessarily accrue to the users of
the network was included in the alternative financing mechanisms analyzed.
5.        Using these definitions, the current fuel surcharge and annual
vehicle licenses were considered to be taxes and the current road tolls were
considered to be user charges. The current requirement for a "Prestacion
Vial", under which all adult males are required to provide a fixed amount of
their time for maintaining the road network, or to pay a fee in lieu of that
time, was also considered a tax as the "charge" was not related to use of the
road network although the revenues from the charge were allocated exclusively
to the road maintenance budget.
6.        If a proposed financing scheme was to make use of earmarked
revenues which currently form Tart of the national taxation revenue, the
scheme would be subject to the accusation that it could be contrary to the
objectives of fiscal reform, and distort the allocation of funds between
competing deuands for treasury funds. For this reason, all the financing
schemes analyzed related to new users charges and would leave present treasury
revenues from current user taxes unchanged. There would, therefore, be no
earmarking of current treasury revenues.
7.        The second part of the first phase of the Study reviewed the costs
which should be covered from new user charge revenues and the projected levels
of those costs. The costs which were considered as appropriate for user
charge funding included those of routine maintenance (including bridge and
emergency maintenance), periodic maintenance and maintenance administration.
Continued use of loan finance for road maintenance activities was not
considered appropriate for the period following the conclusion of the proposed
Second Road Maintenance project, so finance of counterpart funding for future
road maintenance project loans was not considered to be an issue. The costs
of amortization of previous loans for road maintenance projects were analyzed,
but it was concluded that the financing of these costs should not be the
responsibility of future road users. Loan amortization costs are a
consequence of previous lack of provision of road maintenance finance by the
treasury, so their financing should continue to be the direct responsibility
of the treasury.



- 123 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 8
8.        The costs of routine maintenance were derived from the current unit
maintenance costs included in the SAM, the road maintenance system used by
SNC, the national highway authority. These unit costs, by type of road
surface and District of SNC were applied to the projected future road network.
A statistical analysis of the unit costs of road maintenance indicated by this
model showed no significant correlation with the condition of the road
surface.
9.        The costs of periodic maintenance were also derived using a unit
cost method applied to the future road network. The costs of resurfacing each
of three types of road surface, gravel, single surface treatment and
ashphaltic concrete, were estimated from the costs of projects of this type
iiLcluded in the Second Maintenance Project. Since the next round of
resurfacing of paved roads would be applied to roads which had been not only
resurfaced but reconstructed and improves where necessary and economically
justified, it was assumed the costs would be only those of resurfacing.
10.       The frequency of the required resurfacing on each of 1,200 road
sections was derived from an analysis of the life of the surface expressed in
terms of equivalent axles, and the project volume and composition of the
traffic for each road section. Maximum and minimum physical lives were
applied to those sections of the network where the determination of life based
on the equivalent axle life and traffic volume and composition was outside of
the range of practical experience. The average annual cost of resurfacing
each road section was obtained by dividing the appropriate total cost by the
frequency of reconstruction. The resurfacing cost and road life assumptions
are summarized in Table 1 of this Annex. The average annual cost of future
periodic maintenance was obtained by summing the annual cost of each link.
11.       The volume of periodic maintenance work implied by this procedure
would be beyond the capabilities of the current SNC administration. It was
therefore assumed that a period of four years would be required for the volume
of work to build up to this equilibrium level.
12.       The costs of administration of road maintenance were determined
separately for routine and periodic maintenance. The routine maintenance
administration cost estimate was based on the costs derived from the SAM for
the Districts of SNC, plus an additional 15% for headquarters administration.
The costs of administration of periodic maintenance were expressed as a
proportion of the total costs of the projects to be administered.
13.       The projected annual total costs of road maintenance, by type of
maintenance and by fixed and variable cost, using this method are shown in
Table 2 for the years 1996 to 2001.
14.       The next part of the study analyzed alternative ways of financing
this level of road maintenance expenditure from user charges. The user
charges considered as suitable were road tolls, annual vehicle licenses and
fuel price surcharges. Revenue from all of these sources could be considered
as being related to use of the network, and therefore to be genuine user
charges and not taxes. The National Treasury was also considered to be a



- 124 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 8
legitimate source of finance for part of the expenditure, since part of the
beneflts of adequate road maintenance would accrue to the national economy and
not necessarily directly to users of the network. The proportion of benefits
which could be retained by road users would depend on the level of competition
in the road transport industry - less competition indicating a higher
retention of benefits, more competition indicting a lower level of retention.
15.       The alternative financing schemes considered included differing
proportion of revenue from the four sources. The recommendation of which
particular alternative to recommend were based on considerations of the
proportion of variable maintenance costs attributable to each vehicle type,
which would be covered by the projected revenued from user charges from that
vehicle type. Each alternative scheme was required to produce sufficient
revenue to cover not only the variable costs but also the total costs of
maintenance. The difference between the sum of revenues needed to cover
variable maintenance costs and the sum of revenues needed to cover total
maintenance costs was designed to be generated in a way which would minimize
the loss of economic benefit in the economy. This was achieved by proposing
additional charges for those users which had the lowest elasticity of demand
in respect to vehicle operating costs, in addition to allocating a proportion
of the revenue generation to the National Treasury.
16.       After a preliminary consideration by the Government, it was
determined that a fuel surcharge would not be legal, although an additional
tax on petroleum production would be legally acceptable. However, a
production tax would not be the same as a user charge, and would not allow any
discrimination in the impact on the users of gasoline and diesel. Such a
discrimination would be necessary to ensure that commercial vehicles, which
cause the most damage to the road surface and therefore, are attributed the
highest maintenance costs, can be assigned an appropriate user charge.
17.       It would be preferable for the scale of charges to be kept constant
in real terms for as long as possible. However, the increase in periodic
maintenance costs while building up to the equilibrium level would require a
corresponding increase in charges since traffic volumes and vehicle numbers
would not be increasing so fast over this period. One way of keeping charges
constant in real terms while allowing for this cost increase would be to set
the overall revenue from the charges at a level under that needed to finance
the equilibrium level of maintenance but for them to be applied from the
earlier date when the use of user charge financing was first implemented.
This would allow a surplus to be built up in the earlier years, to be consumed
in the later years. The creation of such a surplus would have two additional
advantages in that it would provide a buffer against the unpredictable
variation in annual maintenance costs and provide a source of working capital
for the funding of reconstruction contracts.
18.       The preferred financing scheme, which included a fuel price
surcharge, was that shown in the second column of Table 3, while the
recommended scheme, which excluded the fuel price surcharge and relied on only
three revenue sources, road tolls, an annual vehicle license and a treasury
contribution is shown in the third column of Table 3. The second part of



- 1?.5 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 8
Table 3 shows revenues, financial results and the ratio of revenue to variable
cost for each vehicle type in the equilibrium year of 2001, both for the
preferred and recommended schemes.
19.       For the procedure of creating a number of specific user charges to
finance road maintenance, and for the revenues from these charges to build up
an initial surplus, to work efficiently it would be necessary to create a Road
Maintenance Fund (RMF).  The user charge revenues could be deposited into the
RMF accoumt, and road maintenance expenditures could be financed exclusively
from this account. The RMF would be administered by SNC as the agency
responsible for road maintenance, but its operation would be subject to the
normal safeguards applicable to government funds. These would include
requirements for external auditing satisfactory to the Ministry of Finance,
the undertaking of economic evaluations of all investment projects acceptable
to the Ministry of Planning, and preferably the preparation of a three year
road maintenance plan acceptable to the Ministry of Transport and
Communications.
PART B: Terms of Reference for the Second Phase of the
Road Financing Study
Scone of the study
20.       The study will provide:
i)   a detailed implementation plan for the policy for financing
road maintenance, based on the recommendations of the first
part of the study;
ii) a review of the design standards used in countries at
different stages of their economic development, and
recommendations for standards applicable in Bolivia. The
recommended standards should take particular account of the
contribution that improved roads can make to national economic
development and the financial capacity of the national
economy;
iii) a review of the different ways of administering the national
road network, and the level of autonomy that road authorities
should have. This activity should be coordinated with the
studies of SNC's decentralization;
iv) a theoretical analysis of road user charges in developing
countries, with particular reference to Bolivia;
v)   a four-year Investment Plan for road construction and
maintenance, taking account of resources available and
including procedures for reviwing and updating this Plan;



- 126 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 8
vi) an assessment of the financial capacity of road users to pay
the costs of the Investment ?lan;
vii) recommendations for future government actions and proposal of
a feasible plan for implementing these recommendations; and,
viii) recommendations on how road construction agencies with
different areas of responsibility should be financed.
21.       The detailed implementation plan for the policy to finance road
maintenance, based on the government's policy announced after receiving the
recommendations of the first part of this study will include, but not
necessarily be limited to:
i)   details of how SNC will administer the Road Maintenance Fund
(RMF), in such a way as to ensure that the funds are used only
for maintenance and not for new construction. The
recommendations of the first part of the study provided the
general principles which should be followed in establishing
this mechanism;
ii) details of how the revenues from each of the proposed sources
of finance for the RMF will collected and transferred to the
Fund's account;
iii) a detailed proposal for auditing the accounts of the Fund,
ensuring that revenues are properly allocated and spent; and,
iv) a detailed proposal for preparing a four-year rolling
Maintenance Program, which will be the base for the needs of
the RMF.
Theoretical framework for analss
22.       The Consultant will provide a sound economic and financial analysis
of the issues related to road expenditure and its finance, with particular
reference to the particular circumstances of Bolivia. These include a low
level of development of the road network, low possibilities for public sector
investment in the road network, low levels of ability to pay by road users,
and higher than normal transport costs.
23.       The expenditure analysis will take account of the economic and
social benefits of road development, with particular emphasis on the impact of
transport costs in international trade. Based on these assessments, general
guidelines will be prepared for determining the overall justifiable level of
road expenditure.
24.       The revenue analysis will take account of the difference in
coverage of average and marginal costs, and the attribution of costs to
different types of vehicle, as well as the need for adequate financing of
maintenance and construction costs. The Consultant will also need to take



- 127 
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 8
into account the proposed decentralization of responsibility for road
maintenance and construction activities.
Future financing needs
25.       The Consultant will review future financing needs of the road
network, taking account of current outstanding debts, probable new liabilities
arising from future loans for road construction, and the costs of adequate
routine and periodic maintenance of the whole national road network. This
review will include an assessment of current road design and maintenance
practices, with reference to their suitability for a country with strictly
limited financial resources. The Consultant will also make recommendations
for any revisions needed to current standards and practices.
26.       The needs for future investment will take account of projected
future traffic levels and changes in the composition of traffic. The
Consultant will take account of the recommendations of the recent report on
the implementation of axle .oad and vehicle weight regulation. The
recommendations for future investment should be capable of implementation in
Bolivia and be accompanied by a feasible implementation plan.
Alternative charxing systems
27.       The consultant will provide a comparative evaluation of alternative
methods of financing future costs of road construction and maintenance. The
review should pay particular attention to the conclusions reached in the first
part of the study.   It will ir:lude assessments of the ability of users to
pay any charges and the impact of such charges on the general level of prices.
Recommendation and Implementation
28.       Based on the results of the evaluation, the Consultant will
recommend: i) an implementation plan and schedule for the Road Maintenance
Fund, as recommended in the report of the first part of the study. The
proposed schedule should allow the Government to satisfy the requirements of
this Staff Appraisal Report; ii) design standards for different types of
roads; iii) an appropriate road sysem management; and, iv) a suitable system
of raising and allocating finance for road maintenance and construction. For
the recommended system, the Consultant should review with all interested
agencies, including those of road users, the feasibility of its
implementation.
29.       Based on these recommendations, an implementation plan should be
prepared, detailing what actions should be taken and by whom. The
implementation plan should be discussed with the agencies required to take
actions, to ensure that they have the legal/legislative authority and
technical capability and capacity for the actions they must take.
30.       For the recommended system, detailed financial cash flow
projections should be made for the next four years and outline projections for
the following six years.



- 128 -
ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 8
Resources
31.       It is estimated that the Consultant will require about 20 man-
months to carry out his task, according to the following distribution of
activities:
i)   Implementation Plan for first stage proposals: 2 man-months
ii)  Review and recommendation of road design standard: 8 man-
months
iii) Review of t'.0oretical aspects of road user charges: 2 man-
months
iv)  Assessment of future road financing needs, including
revision of current standards and methods: 3 man-months
v)   Evaluation of alternative user charge systems: 2 man-months
vi)  Consultation with interested agencies: 1 man-months
vii) Development of an implementation plan: 2 man-months
viii) Cash flow projections for all agencies: 2 man-months
Total:                                                              20 man-months



-129 -                                                           Annex 5
ROAD RESURFACING COST ASSUMPTIONS                                            Table I
............................ ....................................................... ........................
Single        Ashphalt
Road type                    Earth           Gravol          Surface        concrete
............. ...........................  ..........   ........
Resurfacing cost                 0           12,000           30,000           55.000
USS per km
Surface life in
equivalent exles                 0         200,000          800.000        1,600,000
Minimun surface
life In years                    0              0.5                2                4
Maximun surface
tife in years                    0                8                8               12
Average routine
maintenance cost
USS per km                     180              657              983              750



- 130in -,                                               ,Annex 5
PROJECTIONS OF ROAD MAINTENANCE COSTS AND USER CHARGE REVENUES                                       Tabte 2f
a) Pr,eferred schema
1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000      2001
I)    maintenarme costs                          USSM      USSM     USSR     USSM      USSM     USSM     USSM
................................j.................................................................... ..................................................
Routine                                           19.1     12.5     12.8      13.1     13.4     13.8      14.1
Periodic                                          0.0      20.0     35.0     40.0      45.0     50.0     52.7
Totat                                             19.1     32.5     47.8      53.1     58.4     63.8     66.8
Fixed                                             5.2      15.2     20.2     25.2      30.2     34.S     34.5
Variable                                          13.9     17.3     27.6      27.9     28.2     29.2     32.3
Total                                            19.1      32.5     47.8      53.1     58.4     63.8     66.8
1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000     2001
ii)    User charge revenues                      USSM      USSM     US$M     USSM      USSM     USSM     USSM
...  ................................. ...................................................................................
Vehicle license                                   4.2       4.3      4.4       4.6      4.7      4.9       5.1
Road toll                                         19.8     24.6     25.4      26.3     27.2    28.1      29.1
Fuel surcharge                                   11.8      12.2     12.6      13.0     13.5     13.9     14.4
Treasury                                                    5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
TotaL                                            35.8      46.1     47.5     48.9      50.4     52.0     53.5
iii)   Financial analysis                        1995      1996     1997     1998      1999     2000     2001
...........................................................................................................
Annual surplus      - USSm                        16.6     13.6     -0.3      -4.2     -8.0    -11.8    -13.2
CumuLative surplus - USSm                         16.6     30.2     29.8      25.6     17.6      5.8      -7.5
Revenue/Total cost                                 1.9      1.4      1.0       0.9      0.9      0.8      0.8
Revenue/Variable cost                             2.6       2.7      1.7       1.8      1.8      1.8       1.7
iv)    Revenue/Variable cost by vehicle type    1995       1996     1997     1998      1999     2000     2001
......... ......................................................................................................
Motorcycle                                       3.45      6.99     6.94      6.90     6.86     6.83     6.79
Car                                               2.20     4.73     4.70      4.67     4.64     4.62     4.59
Jeep                                             3.21      6.81     6.76      6.72     6.69     6.65     6.61
Pick up                                          3.04      6.28     6.24      6.21     6.17     6.14     6.10
Van                                               2.66     5.47     5.44      5.40     5.37     5.34      5.32
Truck
- 2 axles                                       2.28      1.63     1.00      1.02     1.05     1.05     0.97
* 3 axles                                       2.64      2.13     1.33      1.36     1.39     1.39     1.30
- 4 axles                                       2.97      1.55     0.90     0.93      0.95     0.95     0.88
- 5 axles                                       4.03      2.15     1.25      1.29     1.32     1.32     1.22
Urban bus   gasolTne                              4.29     7.52     6.03      6.09     6.15     6.12      5.89
Urban bus - diesel                                2.42     4.61     3.87      3.90     3.92     3.91      3.79
Interurban bus                                    1.39     2.28     1.82      1.84     1.86     1.85     1.78
Total                                             2.57     2.67     1.72      1.75     1.79     1.78      1.66



Annex  5
- .L.3J -
PROJECTIONS OF ROAD MAINTENANCE COSTS AND USER CHARGE REVENUES                                       Table 211
b)  Recommended scheme
0                                          11995     1996     1997     1998      1999     2000     2001
i)   Maintenance costs                           USSM     US$M      USSM     USSM     USSM      US$M     USSM
Routine                                          19.1      12.5     12.8     13.1      13.4     13.8    14.1
Periodic                                          0.0      20.0     35.0     40.0      45.0     50.0     52.7
Total                                            19.1      32.5     47.8     53.1      58.4     63.8     66.8
Fixed                                             5.2      15.2     20.2     25.2     30.2      34.5     34.5
Variable                                         13.9      17.3     27.6     27.9      28.2     29.2     32.3
total                                            19.1     32.5      47.8     53.1     58.4      63.8     66.8
1995     1996     1997     199a      1999     2000     2001
ii)   User charge revenues                       USSM     USSM      USSM     USSM     USSM      USSM     USSM
Vehicle license                                   8.8       9.1      9.5      9.8      10.1     10.5     10.8
Road toll                                        19.8      24.6     30.5     31.6      32.6     33.7     34.9
Fuel surcharge                                    0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Treasury                                                   10.0     10.0     10.0      10.0     10.0     10.0
Total                                            28.7      43.7     50.0     51.3      52.7     54.2     55.7
fii)   Financial anaLysis                        1995      1996     1997     1998     1999      2000     2001
...... ..........w............. .... .... ............. .......................... ........................................................
Annual surplus     - US$M                         9.5      11.2      2.2     -1.8      .5.7     -9.6    -11.1
Cumulative surplus - USSm                         9.5      20.7     22.9     21.1      15.4      5.9     -5.2
Revenue/Total cost                                1.5       1.3      1.0      1.0       0.9      0.9      0.8
Revenue/Variable cost                             2.1       2.5      1.8      1.8       1.9      1.9      1.7
...........................................................................................................
iv)    Revenue/Variable cost by vehicle type
.................... ...........................................   _.....   ...............
MotorcycLe                                       0.42      1.00     1.20     1.19      1.18     1.18     1.17
Car                                              2.48      5.29     5.71     5.68      5.64     5.61     5.58
Jeep                                             2.45      5.31     5.84     5.80      5.77     5.74     5.71
Pick up                                           1.79     3.82     4.14     4.11      4.09     4.07     4.04
Van                                              1.43      3.05     3.30     3.28      3.26     3.24     3.22
Truck
- 2 axles                                       1.69      1.25     0.89     0.91     0.93      0.93     0.87
- 3 axles                                       2.15      1.78     1.30     1.33      1.37     1.36     1.27
- 4 axles                                       2.56      1.37     0.94     0.96      0.99     0.99     0.91
- 5 axles                                       3.59      1.95     1.34     1.38      1.42     1.42     1.31
Urban bus - gasoline                             4.29      7.52     7.23     7.30      7.37     7.35     7.07
Urban bus - diesel                               2.42      4.61     4.65     4.68      4.71     4.69     4.54
Interurban bus                                   1.15      1.94     1.80     1.82      1.84     1.83     1.76
...........................................................................................................
total                                            2.06      2.53     1.81     1.84      1.87     1.85     1.73
...----------                 .     .,....X=................ .............................................. .......................................



-  132 -                                                       Annex  5
PREFERED AND RECOMMENDED SOURCES OF MAINTENANCE FUNDING                                            Table 3
....................................................................................................
Source of                     Preferred                   Receommended
Finance                        Scheme                       Scheme
..................................................................................
Annual vehicLe license      US$ 10 per vehicle               USS 25 per vehicle
plus USS 15 per rear            plus USS 20 per rear
axle for all freight            axle for all freight
vehicles                        vehicles
Road tolls                  Current tolls plus               Current tolls plus
+20% in 1996.                   +20% in 1996 and a
further 20% in 1997.
Evasion reduced to              Evasion reduced to
20%.                            20%.
Fuel surcharge              Gasoline: US 1.0c /litre         Gasoline: None
Diesel:   US 1.5c /litre        Diesel:   None
Treasury                    !ISS 5 million/year              USS 10 million/year
....................................................................................................



- 133 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Decentralization
Background
1.    The Government of Bolivia is contemplating decentralizing the
administration of services in the subsectors of road infrastructure,
agriculture and cattle, sewerage, education and health. This decision aims at
rationalizing and improving the provision of service and avoid duplications
that now exist. It also aims at mobilizing local resources in order to reduce
the financial burden on the Central Government. The decentralization will be
effective through the transfer of functions --partially regulatory but
basically technical-- of administrative and financial nature, from the Central
Government to the departmental governments.
2.    As a first step towards this decentralization, a draft decree ("Lev
Basica'") has been proposed to create new functions within the local
governments; its approval is pending from Congress. Additionally, in support
of the decentralization process, the Bank provided technical assistance for
the preparation of a program to strengthen the economS: functions of the
public sector (Economic Management Strengthening Operation (EMSO)). This
program included a component directed at the preparation of the basic proposal
for decentralization.
3.   In reference to the road infrastructure subsector, the National Road
Service, Serviclo Nacional de Caminos (SNC) is the institution in charge of
the national road network. Since the needs, specially those of the regions,
for more and better means of communications exceed the resources and the
institutional capacity of execution of this entity, the regional development
corporations have begun to undertake the execution of road works. These
activities by the corporations, often carried out without adequate planning,
have over-committed the scarce resources available to the SNC for road
maintenance. It has also distorted the national road plan. Under these
circumstances, the Government considers that the decentralization process will
be an adequate measure to delimit responsibilities, establish jurisdictions
and carry out the administration in the national and departmental governments.
EMSO's Proposal
4.    The ENSO program has proposed a preliminary classification of the
Bolivian road network (approx. 41,000 km.) into two categories: the
Interdepartmental Road Network (around 8,000 km.) that will continue to be in
charge of the Central Government through the SNC (see Table 1), and the
Secondary and Rural Roads Network (around 33,000 km.) which will be under the
responsibility of the departmental governments, through the proposed Road
Department Directorates, Direcciones Departamentales de Vialidad (DDVs).



- 134 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
5.    ENSO's proposal for decentralization of the subsector of road
infrastructure defines the functions of the Central Government, the
departmental governments and the subdepartmental districts. In a general
manner, it also defines the functional character of the DDVs. The proposal
also explores the form of distribution of equipment and use of human nd
financial resources.
6.    The recommendation of the EMSO program for the decentralization of the
road infrastructure can be summarized as follows:
(a)   The road infrastructure system of the country would be governed by
the Ministry of Transportation and Communications (MTC) which
would have among its responsibilities the formulation of the
national transport policy in general, and the road policy in
particular. The MTC would also define the length and the
composition of the Basic Road Network (Red Vial Fundamental
(RVF)). The MTC would assume regulative functions for the
subsector and would make the necessary basic decisions. It would
also approve the plans and programs for the development of the
national road network, and the financial policies that, at the
end, would be considered and approved by the National Planning
Council "CONEPLAN", the Ministerial Cabinet and, if necessary by,
the legislative power.
(b)   The RVF would be governed by the SNC, which would continue to be a
decentralized body under the MTC. It would also function as the
principal entity within the country's road system, in charge of
regulating the subsector, and of monitoring the implementation of
regulations throughout the country. The SNC would execute its
functions through its Central Office, with headquarters in La Paz.
The decentralized offices to be established in each departmental
capital would be basically in charge of: (i) management and
administration of the RVF; (ii) execution of the necessary
roadwork to complete and improve the network; and (iiI) road
maintenance, by force account, by contract, or by agreed transfers
to the regional entities, or a mixture of these, in a manner that
contracts should be executed wilen medium-length road sections are
Involved, in order to promote competition among national
construction firms.
(c)   The construction of new roads, as well as the maintenance nf the
existivg ones, in the geopolitical-administrative jurisdaction of
each Department in the country, which do not belong to the RVF
(i.e., roads that make up the secondary and local network of each
department) would be entrusted to a departmental road office
(Direccion Devartamental de Vialidad - (DDV) to be created as a
decentralized regional institution, under the departmental
government.



- 135 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
(d)   Due to the fact that today one of the main activities of the
Regional Development Corporations (Corporaciones Regionales de
Desarrollo (CORDs) is the execution of roadwork, these entities
already have the necessary small-scale operational units, labor
and mechanical equipment. Therefore, it is proposed that the
existing Road Departments are reorganized and merged with the
corresponding DDV in the Superintendent's Office of each
department, in the case they exist, and also with the section of
the existing SNC district, which would be transferred accordingly.
(e)   The new DDVs would be administered and managed in accordance with
the institutional and technological criteria defined for this
purpose. These criteria would allow adequate planning, sound
project design, and construction of roads that are of interest to
the region.
(f)   The road design, construction and rehabilitation in the secondary
and local network in each Department, would have to be done by the
corresponding DDV. These tasks would preferably be undertaken by
contract, or by force account if the DDVs have enough operational
capacity to do so without interfering with other of their
responsibilities.
(g)   Maintenance of roads in the departmental secondary network would
be initially carried out by the DDVs by force account, with the
road equipment available, and with the human resources obtained
from reactivation of the labor tax ("emnleo de brazosti), which
basically requires the communities to provide local labor in
exchange for road services. Progressively, they would be able to
introduce a maintenance system by contract, whenever possible.
Also, they would be able to charge users' fees or tolls on the
roads, as necessary.
(h)   The maintenance of the roads in the departmental rural network
would be carried out by the DDVs, again using the human resources
derived from the reactivation of the labor tax, described in (g)
above, and with support of nearby communities. The same concept
of the existing t"food for labor" system would be applied. On a
complementary basis, support could be sought from the mechanical
units of road equipment, only when needed, and according to the
type of works to be carried out.
(i)   The organizational chart proposed for the decentralization of the
system is shown in Chart III. The basic organizational chart for
the new DDVs is indicated in Chart IV.
(j)   The SNC and its district offices would retain the necessary staff
to support the functions that they would have been assigned. The
rest of the staff would be dismissed and transferred to the DDVs.



- 136 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5
These, in turn, would absorb the roadwork units of the CORDs and
of the superintendents' offices, in the case they exist.
(k)   SNC would only retain the road equipment that is considered
strictly necessary to undertake, by force account, the maintenance
works in the areas that are normally affected by landslides and
slipping. The rest of the equipment that it now owns and that is
useful after repairs, would be transferred to the DDVs free of
charge. Equipment that is found obsolete or non-repairable, will
be either fully depreciatsd or auctioned.
(1)   For servicing the RVF, the SNC would retain the buildings that now
house its district offices, as well as the work camps it owns
installed along the RVF. Other work camps would be similarly
transferred to the DDVs free of charge.
(m)   As indicated above, the SNC wou14 retain the work camps that it
now owns, but would be responsible for providing maintenance and
repair services of road equipment that the DDVs would own.
(n)   The RVF should be as extensive as possible to satisfy its design
characteristics, and to fulfill the mandate that requires the
Centrel. Government to provide:
-     Communication among the departmental capitals.
-     Improvement of export corridors and of international linkage
(Pan American Road System).
At early stages, the RVF should try to meet these objectives in order to
maintain a direct relation with the economic/financial capabilities of the
Central Government and the actual possibilities of completing, improving and
adequately maintaining the RVF. Excessive capacity would imply heavier
financial burdens. It would also prevent an efficient performance of the
units in the provision of services. It is proposed that the RVF would
initially be integrated by the routes indicated in Table 1.
OnaoinR Studies
7.    IDA is financing, under the Export Corridors Project, a consultant for
assessing the work done by EMSO concerning road decentralization. This
assessment focuses on the diatricts of Sta. Cruz and Tarija. Based on this
assessment, the consultant will prepare detailed terms of reference to develop
a realistic plan, based on the recommendations of the EMSO program, to
initiate and make effective the decentralization process in the road
subsector.  The plan will include the following objectives:
(a)   to carry out a detailed analysis of the general and specific
functions, both permanent and temporary, of the organization of
the road subsector administration that would be required at the
departmental level;



137 -
ANNx 6
Page 5 of 5
(b)   to classify the functions and jurisdictions and determine the
appropriate transfers needed in the secondary and rural roads
network;
(c)   to plan the servicing of the networks in the short and medium
term;
(d)   to carry out a detailed estimate of human resources and functions
in order to plan their distribution at departmental and
subdepartmental level;
(e)   to carry out a detailed analysis of the financing, allocation and
administration of national and departmental resources for road
maintenance and rehabilitation.
(f)   to develop and transfer the planning, evaluation, contracting and
monitoring systems for the projects;
(g)   to link, in a coordinated manner, the national and departmental
entities and other support units; and
(h)   to develop a plan for the gradual and orderly implementation of
the plan for road decentralization in the various departments of
the country. Also, to facilitate the support and institutional
strengthening that should be provided to the departmental entities
in road activities.
Future Actions
8.   As soon as the study mentioned above is completed, it will be possible
to implement the necessary management systems in the DDVs with technical
assistance financed under the proposed Project. This assistance will include
(i) implementation of the SAM and the SAE in the new DDVs; (ii) training staff
of the DDVs in the application of the system; (iii) analyze the requirements
for human physical and financial resources for SNC and the new DDVs; (iv)
organization and use of these resources after the decentralization. Detailed
terms of reference for this technical assistance are included in Annex 9 (to
be confirmed with the Government during negotiations). The project provides
US$1.0 million for this technical assistance.
DItI1Ts IOLIVIA
Doe. WarS AM66.2ar
05059a



- 138
PROPOSED INTEREDPAATHENTAL ROAD NETWOCR
(BASIC NETWORK)
..____.______________________._____________________________________________________________________________.
ROAD             ITINERARY                         L E  N G  T 8  (Km)
No.                                                                                  New          Total
Paved      Gravel       Earth  Conatruction
1. Dezaguadero-La Paz (El Alto)
Caracollo-Oruro-Potoal-Tarija-
Boemajo                                      344         876         ---                       1,220
Oruro-Caihua.± Branch                        ---          39         -.-         ---              39
2.  La Paz (El Alto)-Yucumo
Rurrnaabaque-Chivo-Cobija                     65         361         297         248             971
3.  Yucumo-San Borja-San Ignacio
de Noxos-TritAdad                            ---          48         228         ---             276
4. Tanbo Quwmado-Patacamaya
Caracollo-Coebabnmba-Chlmore-
Yapacan±-GuabLra-Santa Cruz                  603         241         ---          ---            844
5.  Ollague-Uyunl-Potosi-Sucre-Epizanas            18         351         449         ---             818
6.  Sucre-Tarabuco-Padilla-Ipatf                  ---         204         217         ---             421
7.  Cochabamba-Epizana-Mataral-Santa Cruz         417          69         ---         ---             486
8.  Rurrenabaque-Santa Rosa-Rib.ralta-
Guayaramer±n                                 ---         448          74          80             602
9. TrInidad-San Ramdn-Los Troncoa-
Pail6a-Sauta Cruz                             18         532         ---         ---             550
10. Villa Tunari-Puarto Patifio-San Ignacio
de Mozo                                     _---          50         --.         245             295
11.  Tarija-Entre REos-Villamontes                ---          212         26          ---             238
12. P&al6a-Pozo del Tigre-San Jos6
de Chlquitos-Robord-Puerto Suarez-
Arroyo ConcaEpCid                             17         ---          78         513             608
13.  Santa Cruz (m. 14)-Abapd-Ipatf
CamrI-Boyuibo-Villamontea-
Yacuiba-Pocito.                              ---          148        406          ---            554
-__-..--.-_-_-.-_--__---.---_-___---_----..--------_.-_-_____.__-_---._----_-___.__-__.-_-_-__.---___-___---
Total        1.482       3.579       1.775        1.086           7.922
Sources ENSO



- 139 -
ANNX 7
BOLIMI
SECOND ROAD MAINTMNANCE PROJECT
Trafflc Counters and Laborators Eauiiment
Trgffic Counters
1.   At present, SNC ha. 54 traffic counters installed on the road network.
Out of them, some 34 were Installed in 1980 and 20 in 1988, of which only 32
units (59Z) are working satisfactorily, (20 magnetic counters and 12
pneumatic counters). There are 12 additional counters not yet installed. The
needs for traffic counters have been analyzed by SNC during the preparation of
the Project and the result is that 146 new counters are needed to cover
adequately the'natwork in the next four years, completing a total of 200
counters. Table 1 shows the distribution by district of the existing and the
required counters. Taking into account the acquisition of the 146 counters,
complementary equipment and spare parts, the cost of the program on traffic
counters amounts to about US$500,000 (see Table 2). The installation of the
counters will be carried out by SNC's personnel in the districts. The
proposed Project includes US$350,000 for financing this sub-component.
Laboratory Ecuipment
2.    The SC has a Central Laboratory of Road Materials depending on its
Geology and Gootechnic Division with sections for soil, asphalt and concrete
testing. The staff of the Central Laboratory i8 composed of 18 technicians
which are enough for the work to be performed. The main problem is the lack
of resources to finance adequate equipment. The problem is similar in the
smaller laboratories in the districts. During project preparation the needs
In laboratory equipment were analyzed and the results are shown in Table 3.
The cost of these needs amounts to about US$400,000 equivalent, of which the
proposed Project will finance US$250,000.



- 140 -
ANNE% 7
Table 1
EXISTING AND REQUIRED TRAFFIC COUNTERS
E x i a t i n g
DISTRICT           Pneumatic    Magnetic       Total     Required  Total
La Paz                     7             7           14         27         41
Chuquisaca                 4             -            4         18         22
Tarija                    3             3             6         18         24
Cochabamba                6             4            10         20         30
Santa Cruz                3             4             7         27         34
Oruro                     3             2             5         14         19
Potosi                    3              -            3         13         16
Tupiza                     1            -             1          3          4
Beni                      3             -             3          6          9
Pando                      1            -             I                    0
33            20           54        146        200



- 141 -
ANNEX 7
Table 2
TRAPPIC COUNTERS AND ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT
(US$)
I T E M                            Units     Unit Cost   Total Cost
Traffic Counters                              164       2380       390,320
Spar. Parts for Now Counters (102)                                  39,000
Spare Parts for Existing Counters                                    7.500
Control Panel                                20          560        11,200
Switches                                     30           90         2,700
Relays                                       30           40         1,200
Clutch Keys                                  50          2.8            140
Tape Ratchets                                30           45         1,350
Print Wheels                                 60           25         1,500
Drive Motors                                 20          290         5,800
Ink Cartridges                                 100        45         4,500
Detectors                                    65          500        32,500
Tape Optical Reader                            1        2000         2,000
[                              TOTAL                                 499,710



142 -
ANNEX 7
Table 3
SOILS, CONCRETE, ASPHALT LABS EQUIPMENT
--------------------------------------------------------------__-----------
I T E M                                            C O S T
Central Lab:
Equipment for triaxial test, consolidation, drilling,
screens, thermometers, dynamometric, ringe, etc.                47,700
Concrete Epuivment
Corecutter, winds reset test, portable mixer,
moulds, flasks, etc.                                            35,600
Asphalt Eguioment
Marshall equipment, compressor for compaction unit,
viscosimetter, compacting equipment, thermometers,
receptables, etc.                                               23,600
2 Troxler equipment: to determine soils density,
asphalt mixes and c.a. Z (percentage)                           62,000 (*)
Geology Ecuipment
Stereoscopic, pantograph, compass, hammers
to make borings, camping tents and complementary equipment       6,100
Labs for the Districts:
Two soil and concrete equipment for Beni and Pando             128,000 (*)
Complete asphalt lab, to work in Chuquisaca, and districts      51,290 (*)
Failure presses, capping equipment, CBR equipment,
dynamometric rings, etc. to complete the labs,
of the SNC districts.
53,500
-----------------------------------------------------------__----------------
T O T A L      407,790
(*) C.I.F. SNC warehouse



- 143 -
ANNEX 8
BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Safety Program
1.    The number of accidents on the road network is high, particularly if it
is compared with the number of vehicles and rhe average medium traffic of the
network. One of the causes of accidents is the lack of adequate vertical
signalization and safety barriers. This problem is more acute in the gravel
network (26.2Z of the total), which totally lacks of any signs and safety
barriers. The contracts for periodic maintenance financed by this Project
will include signs and marks for the roads included in the program, but, for
the rest, additional funds are necessary to improve the present situation.
The proposed Project will finance a Road Safety Program on road signs, safety
barriers and scope protection (detailed in Table 1) with a total cost of about
US$1.6 million (the Project includes US$1.1 million for financing this
program).
V-B



- 144 -
AME  8
Table 1
S9UE   PRORAM
1992 - 1995
LENM  (IKH)        VERTICAL SIGNALS              BARRIERS         SLOPE PROTECTION
.... ..... __0..... .. ...._.,  .... _____...............    .... __............  ,_..__..______....
LENGTH                SURFACE
TYPE 01  IGHWAY         PAVED  UNPAVED  TOTAL  SIGNALS        COST US$   (2)        COST US$   (112)        COST USS
....... ................._. ..___..__, __._._. _   .... ... _  _........ ...... ..........  ........  ......  .......... ... ........ __ .... .. .._
lot Yr. Prograu 1992
.......... ................*___.
Main Trunk Road*             228      968    1196      890       115,344    2265        193,884    10000        50,000
Regional Trunk Road           --      326     326      250        34,400      380        32,528        *-            0
Rural Road.                   --       22       22      25         3,240       30         2,568        --            0
TOTALS (1992)                228    1316    1544    1165         150,984    2675        228,980    10000        50,000
TOTAL 1992 Programa    US$ 429,964
______._.......__..________............................... ____..............__._._._..___.. .....................................
2nd Yr. Program 1993
Main Trunk Roads              70    1054    1124       860       111,456    1465        125,404    10000        50,000
Regional Trunk Roads          --      253      253     238        30,844      350        29,960        --            0
Rural Roads                   --       89       89      70         9,072      160        13,696        --            0
TOTALS (1993)                 70    1396    1466    1168         151,372    1975        169,060    10000        50,000
TOTAL 1993 Program:    US$ 370,432
=___._._._.___.__..............................................___.._._..... _....... .... ....... __.__........... _...... ............_._____
3rd Yr. Program 1994
Main Trunk Road.             282      627    1109      710        92,016    2140        183,184    20000       100,000
Regional Trunk Roads          --      310     310      290        37,584      300        25,680        --            0
Rural Roads                   --       --       -       --              0    --               0        --            0
TOTALS (1994)                282    1137    1419    1000         129,600    2440        208,864    20000       100,000
TOTAL 1994 Progrts    US$  438,464
................................................................... ..........................................
4th Yr. Program 1995
...... .......... ..
Main Trunk Roads              --      105      105      60         7,776      120        10,272      5000       25,000
Rglonl Trunk Road            --      499      499     SOO        64,800    1050         89,880        --           --
Rural Roads                   40      571      611     550        71,280      990        84,744        ..            .
TOTALS (1995)                 40    1175    1215    1110         143,856    2160        184,896      5000       25,000
TOTAL 1995 Programs    US$  353,752
…,,,,,,,,,,,,, .............................................................................................._
TOTAL OMS (1992-95)          620    5024    5644    4443         575,812    9250        791,812    45000       225,000
TOTAL 1992-1995 Program   S   1,592,612



- 145 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 4
B O L I V I A
SECOND ROAD HAINTENANCE PROJECT
Implementation of the SAM and the SAE in the DDVs
Terms of Reference
Background
1.    The 1587-EO project, financed by IDA, provided technical assistance to
SNC to prepare and develop the SAM, a maintenance management system and the
SAE, an equipment management system, and some training was also provided
especially for equipment management and workshop organization. However, a
detailed work program was never implemented. In 1989, SNC started the
implementation of the SAM and the SAE in the five districts under CAF
(Confederacion Andina de Fomento) financing and is now implementing the SAM
and the SAE in the other five districts, under the Export Corridors Project.
The systems will require additional updating data, concerning effective work
force for maintenance activities, list of equipment and condition, and highway
inventory by physical characteristics. After completion of their
implementation in January 1992, the SAM and the SAE will provide the means to
improve the SNC maintenance budget process. This technical assistance will
assist in the extension, to the future DDVs, of these systems at the
departmental level and in the field, within the process of decentralization
from SNC to the DDVs. They will then be used as the basis for determining
future road maintenance budgets.
Objectives
2.    The main objective of this technical assistance is to strengthen the
technical and administrative capacity of the future Road Department
Directorates (DDVs), including assistance in the organization during and after
the probable transfers to these new DDVe. This technical assistance will also
include: (i) implementation of the SAM and the SAE in the new DDVs; (ii)
training DDV's staff in the application of the systems; (iii) study of the
needs in human, physical and financial resources for SNC and the new DDVs; and
(iv) organization and use of the resources after the decentralization.
Scope of assistance
3.    The principal tasks to be performed by this technical assistance are the
following:
(a)   reviewing, updating and adapting, to the needs of the DDVs, the
existing road and equipment management systems in SNC;
(b)   revising the available elements and collecting the information
required to implement the systems;



- 146 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 4
(c)   implementing the SAM in the DDVs;
(d)   implementing the SAE in the DDVs;
(e)   implementing a computerized analysis of the systems in the DDVs;
(f)   applying cost accounting to road maintenance;
(g)   preparing the DDV maintenance program and its budget using the
implemented systems;
(h)   formulating a program for maintenance by contract in the DDVs; and
(i)   personnel training in the DDVs.
4.    The first task will consist of reviewing the adaptability of the systems
implemented in the SNC, at a central level and in the districts, to the new
DDVs. After this analysis, the consultant will adapt the system to the DDVs.
In this phase, the consultant will determine maintenance activities, quantity
of works, maintenance levels, performance standards and the costs to be used
in the SAM, based on the experience of the implementation of the system in the
SNC districts.
5.    The second task will include the programs for collecting road roughness
data (using the Mays Road Meter) and deflections (with the Falling Weight
Deflectometer) and other data needed to use the HDM-III model. This task will
also include identification, evaluation and selection of sources of materials
for road maintenance, including the analysis of problems concerning
development of borrow pits, transportation of materials and possible
environmental impact.
6.    The third task, (implementation of the SAM) will aim at strengthening
DDV's technical and administrative capabilities, setting up the procedures for
planning, budgeting and monitoring road maintenance programs. The system will
be implemented, at the DDV's offices and in the field, considering routine,
periodic and improvement maintenance. The SAM will allow to organize the DDVs
to carry out the road maintenance programs. The implementation of the system
at the field level will allow the DDV field offices to prepare and monitor its
monthly road maintenance programs.
7.    As fourth task, the consultant will adapt and implement the SAE in the
DDVs. First, the consultant will collect and analyze data on the availability
and use of SNC's transferred equipment fleet. He will also: (i) analyze the
outputs and operating cost of the DDVs' equipment and will update the existing
equipment inventory; (ii) evaluate SNC's programs and policies on equipment
management, preventive maintenance levels and workshops management, in order
to adapt them to the DDVs; (iii) analyze the procedures in equipment control,
including forms and reports currently used; by SNC; (iv) evaluate the
procedures used by SNC to obtain equipment operating and maintenance costs and
will adapt them to the DDVs; (v) analyze and evaluate the control procedures
for spare parts including stocks and Inventories and adapt them to the DDVs;
and (vi) recommend the policies and procedures to be followed in the future by
the DDVo.



- 147 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 4
8.    The fifth task will be the implementation of computerized analysis of
the management systems. The consultant will prepare and implement: (i)
computerized programs for planning, budgeting and monitoring the road
equipment maintenance programs in t%.e DDVs; and (ii) analysis and assessment
of maintenance policies using mathematical models for short, medium and long
term.
9.    The sixth task will be the application of the cost accounting to road
maintenance based on the experience of SIC at the central level and in the
districts. The main objective of this task is setting up a cost accounting
system to support the SAM and the SAE and introducing reliable procedures to
monitor the DDVs' payments and expenditures according to work progress.
10.   The seventh task will be the preparation of a detailed DDV maintenance
program and its budget for the two following years, taking into account the
experience of SNC with the CAF program in the southern districts and with the
National Road Maintenance Program in the northern districts. This DDV
maintenance program will be prepared based on the previously implemented
maintenance, equipment and computer systems. It will be started in the last
phase of the technical assistance and include assistance to the DDVs by the
consultant in implementing the program and preparing the appropriate documents
for government approval.
11.   The eight task will be the formulation of a program to carry out
maintenance by contract for the first two years of the implementation of the
systems. The consultants, will select the works to be contracted starting
from the maintenance program for the period and will prepare bidding documents
for the procurement of contractor services. They will also group the works in
lots whose size will be attractive to local contractors, in function of their
equipment and working capital.
12.   The ninth task will be personnel training.  The consultant will: (i)
assess the DDV's minimum needs in training specialists; (ii) assess and update
the personnel directly involved in maintenance activities, in their central
offices and in the field by category; (iii) prepare and carry out a training
plan for technical and administrative personnel involved in maintenance
planning, execution and control; (iv) set up a system of evaluation and
control of the training programs; and, (v) prepare a study of DDV's personnel
needs at their central offices and in the field, based on the maintenance
programs.
Staffing and-Cost
13.   The technical assistance will be provided by the following specialists:
a)    A highway engineer, with experience in maintenance and equipment
management systems, maintenance by contract and maintenance
planning and budgeting, who will be the program leader and
coordinator. (24 months)
b)    An equipment specialist, with experience in equipment management
systems. (18 months)



- 14R -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 4
c)    A computer system analyst. (12 months)
d)    A specialist in maintenance cost accounting. (9 months)
e)    A personnel training specialist. (12 months)
14.   It is envisaged that this technical assistance will be carried out over
a period of two years and will require a total of 75 man-months. All staff
must be fluent in Spanish. The cost of this technical assistance, financed by
this project, will be US$1 million.
Executing Government Aaencv and Counterpart Staff
15.   SNC will be the technical assistance executing agency.  The counterpart
staff will selected by SNC from permanent staff at the DDV's central offices
and in the field.
Schedule and Renorts
16.   By the first month, the Consultant will submit an initial program with
the activities to be carried out in the term established by the contract (24
months). This program will consist of, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following:
a)    analysis and evaluation of the existing situation;
b)    implementation of the technical assistance in accordance with the
initial program approved by SNC and the DDVs;
c)   monitoring of the first maintenance programs and preparation of
the following maintenance programs and budgets; and
d)    monitoring of the systems implemented.
17.   In eddition to the initial program, the consultant will submit quarterly
reports to the SNC Director General and the DDV directors, during the period
in which services are rendered, and a final report by the date on which the
contract ends.



- 149 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 6
BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Study of the Road Construction Industry
1.    Obiectives
The objectives of this study are to identify the main constraints and
obstacles preventing the domestic construction industry of Bolivia from
assuming a more effective role in the country's road construction and
maintenance programs and to develop appropriate detailed plans of action to
overcome those constraints.
The work process should be to undertake a brief but balanced and careful
overview, and then to focus on the main issues on which action is needed.
Most of the effort of the study will, thus, be devoted to identifying and
considering alternative, viable solutions to the problems and to working up
action plans for their implementation.
To ensure full commitment of the Government and of the industry to the
execution of the strategy and action plans, they should be developed in close
collaboration with the Ministry of Transport and Communications, acting
liaison agency for the study team, and with the construction industry's
representatives and professional associations.
2.    Scope of the Study
The study of the construction industry and the formulation of a strategy
and action plans will be based on a careful consideration of the following
subjects: i) structure of the industry; ii) demand; iii) procurement and
contract administration; iv) choice of technology; v) the industry's capacity;
vi) financing; vii) legal aspects; and viii) institutional aspects
2.1   Structure of the Industry
(a)   Historical development of the industry including emergence
of entrepreneurs and ownership characteristics of
construction enterprises.
(b)   Participation of the industry in the economy of the country
including contribution to employment, backward and forward
linkages, particularly with the construction materials
industry, and comparison with developed countries and with
countries at a similar stage of development.
(c)   Participation of the main sectors of the industry in the
satisfaction of the overall demand for construction and
maintenance services; historical participation, and future
trends.



- 150 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 6
(d)   Experience with joint ventures and domestic sub-contractors
of foreign firms.
2.2   Demand
(a)   Overall demand: historical series, fluctuation of annual growth
rates relative to the manufacturing industry and GDP and
identification of trends.
(b)   Implications of the program for decentralization of the
transport sector on the future demand for construction services,
at both national and regional levels.
(c)   Forecast future demand, identifying, in particular:
(i)   Recurring demand for construction and maintenance services
which can potentially be supplied by the domestic private
sector;
(it) Recurring demand for construction and maintenance services
which would preferably be catered for by force account
operations; and
(iii)   Demand for larger construction works which can be handled by
domestic enterprises, either by slicing and packaging or by
providing those enterprises with technical and financial
assistance.
2.3   Procurement and Contract Administration
(a)   Procedures for procurement in the public and private sectors;
regulations for bidding and negotiating construction and
maintenance work; existence and adequacy of contractor's registry;
time consumed and difficulties encountered in the post-bid
process, up to the start of work.
(b)   Contract forms and contracting practice; fairness of contract
provisions, particularly in the apportionment of risk between
owner and contractor; compensation to the contractor for default
by the owner (for example interest payable for late progress
payments, or compensation for delays induced by the owner);
adequacy of provisions for price escalation and settlement of
disputes; existence of indices or data sources for applying
escalation provisions,
(c)   Policy and legal framework for contracting with government
agencies.
(d)   Capacity of government agencies to manage contracts and supervise
construction; autonomy of government supervisors; adequacy of
consultants employed for supervision; restrictions which may
inhibit the engagement of competent supervisors.



- 151 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 6
(e)   Adequacy of the engineering preparation of works in relation to
the level of development of the domestic construction industry.
(f)   Anomalies and difficulties observed in the process of procurement,
management, and completion of construction contracts.
2.4   Choice of Technology
(a)   Potential for the employment of alternative technologies in
construction.
(b)   Pricing distortions which may influence choice against locally
available, traditional construction materials.
2.5   The Industry
(a)   Level of development of civil construction sectors, according to
specified indicators of complexity and volume of the operations
the domestic enterprises can handle.
(b)   Ownership and c ganization of construction enterprises state and
private, and problems and constraints of each, in particular
efficiency of each type of organization.
(c)   Entrepreneurs and managers: their status in society; potential
supply of entrepreneurs and managers; traditional attitudes;
willingness of leaders to learn modern management techniques;
facilities available for coaching entrepreneurs and managers;
salary levels.
(d)   Supply of engineers, architects, estimators, surveyors,
accountants, senior clerks, foremen, and other middle-level
managers; traditional sources, adequacy of supply, and training
facilities available; salary levels.
(e)   Supply of equipment operators and mechanics; adequacy of supply
and training facilities available; proficiency levels relative to
the quality of finished work; wage levels.
(f)   Adequacy of salary and wage regimes for state and private
construction enterprises; problems arising from these regimes.
(g)   Labor productivity and feasible incentives.
(h)   Equipment resources: restrictions for the importation and
ownership of construction equipment; standardization; availability
of spare parts and servicing facilities; restrictions on the
importation of spare parts; availability of excess equipment in
government fleets which could be sold or hired out to contracting
enterprises; prices of consumable.
(i)   Availability of materials: shortage which affect construction;
alternatives available; means of marketing and distribution,



_ 152 _
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 6
accessibility of self-help builders; prices of domestic and
imported materials.
(j)   Technology gaps in estimating, planning, organizing and managing
construction work, cost control, and construction technology;
quality of finished work.
(k)   Research and development facilities available for the industry;
identification of needs.
2.6 Financing
(a)   Financing, bonding, guarantee and insurance requirements of
builders and civil contractors.
(b)   Perception of the industry by domestic financiers, bondsmen, and
insurers. Financial indicators which confirm or do not confirm
this perception.
(c)   Particular characteristics of construction risk in Bolivia.
(d)   Availability of credit for the industry from commercial banks,
DFCs, non-banking sources, suppliers' credit. Terms and
conditions on which credit, bonds, and guarantees are advanced to
the industry. Capability of the industry to meet those terms and
conditions.
(e)  Availability of suitable insurance facilities.
(f)   Suitability of contractual arrangements (advances o; progress
payments) in the context of the financial resources available to
the industry. Acceptance by financiers of government progress
certificates and other contractual documents for discounting.
Terms of such discounting.
(g)   Participation of the private sector in public works financing,
through concessions, build-operate-transfer systems of others and
potential under the regulatory framework created by the
government's policies on decentralization of the transport sector.
2.7   Letal
(a)   Taxation regime applicable to the construction industry.  Tax
exemptions and concessions (particularly, incentives for re-
investment), depreciation allowances. Protection of industry
against foreign competition. Pricing and profit controls.
(b)   Employment regime.  Permanence of labor in construction industry
employment. Wage-fixing procedures, free bargaining. Social lawe
(health, insurance, pension, and so forth) applicable to
construction. Methods available for settlement of disputes.
History of periodicity of disputes.



- 153~ -
ANNEX LO
Page 5 of 6
(c) Importation regime. Duties or quotas levied on equipment, spare
parts, and materials. Treatment of domestic and foreign
companies. Restriction in the availability of foreign currency.
(d)   Company and ownership laws applicable to the industry.
(e) Codes and regulations affecting the industry (for instance,
licensing of contractors, determination and limitations of
responsibility, building codos, safety and fire regulations).
2.8 Institutional
(a) Existence of a government office responsible for development of
the industry and for liaising with industry institutions.
(b) Existence of an institution representative of the industry,
capable of presenting its views to the Goverment in matters
affecting construction and providing management information and
training services to construction enterprises.
(c) Existence of professional associations related to the construction
activity (for engineers and architects, for example).
3.    Stratesv and Action Plans
A comprehensive strategy for development of the industry will be
prepared, to enhance the level of development of the industry.  The strategy
will propose short-, medium-, and long-term objectives. These shall take into
account the state of development of the country's economy and its likely
evolution when proposing a time frame.
A small numbe: of action plans, aimed at resolving key problems and
constraints identified in the strategy as having a high priority will be
prepared. Thu plaxLs will contain schedules and programs for their
implementation, th6 perG.ns or institutions responsible, the estimated coats
and likely sources of funding, and the standards by which to appraise the
results of these programs.
4.    Staffing
The study will be carried out over a period of 8 months by the following
professionals:
i) a highway engineer, experienced in identifying construction
industry problems and contract administration, who will be the
project leader (8 months)t
ii) a financial analyst, experienced in fiscal policies and
legislation (4 months); and
iii) a lawyer, experienced in construction legislation, tax reform and
public management (4 months).



- 154 -
ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 6
5.    Executing Agen.v
SNC's Planning Department will supervise the study and will assign a
coordinator to follow up the progress of the study and coordinate discussions
between the consultants and the institutions involved in the road construction
industry.
6.    Schedule and Reports
The study will start in early 1993. The consultant will submit a final
report, summarizing the main findings of the study and the action plans
recommended. The consultants will furnish to SNC a preliminary version of
this self-contained report by the end of the seventh month and will issue the
revised version, approved by SNC, by December 31, 1993.
Directorys XBOLIVI
Dco. Naas -AunnxIlO.ear
Aloi.so-3±ar&.tav



- 155 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1
BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE
TRAINING
SNC's operational efficiency can be improved only with qualified
personnel. An assessment of the needs in personnel will be one of the main
objectives of SNC. This objective will be accomplished by executing the
different courses, seminars and scholarships programmed by SNC for its
personnel.
Furthermore, the implementation of Suticollos's Training School will
become a very useful tool to improve staff's productivity and efficiency at
every level by means of the following programmed courses:
1.   National and local courses (88 1rogrammed courses)
1.   51 courses by instructors of the Training
School (see Table 1)                           US$      90.000
2.   19 courses to SNC personnel by contracted
national instructors (see Table 1)             US$      60.000
3.   18 courses by contracted foreign
instructors (see Table 1)                      US$    100.000
4.   Cost equipment for implementation of the
above courses (see Table 2.1)                  US$      40.000
5.   Cost of training materials to be used
in the of courses, brochures and
publications (see Table 2.2)                   US$      10.000
Sub Total                                 US$    300.000
11.  Registration for courses, seminars, and per diem abroad
(Including tickets) SNC.
1.   Attendance of 5 professionals to specialized
courses abroad, 3 months each                  US$      44.000
2.   Travel abroad of 6 Bolivian professionals,
1 month each                                   US$      36.000
3.   Visits to institutions abroad for
professionals, 1 month each                    US$      40.000
4.   Scholarships abroad for 2 instructors
of the Training Division, 1 year each          US$      80.000
Sub Total                                 US$    200.000
FINAL TOTAL COST OF THE TRAINING PROGRAM
I.   National and local courses (88 courses)              US$    300.000
II.  Courses, seminars and scholarships abroad            US$    200.000
Total cost                                     US$    500.000



-                      .-                            9                 0@                           -  -  -   -   -  -  -  -   -   -   4  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -- -  -   - -  -   -   -  -   -----
,   ----    ---- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -:
00.8      a a 0                                                     -
.    s    s    E    | 3   0    i  S g    i P F p g | N           G        t o t c  t   t tia               R
0             OaO OOOO0 00 0a 0 0            a      U    ni
-   - -     - -     - -     - -     - -     - -     --     - -     - -     - -     - -    --  -  -   -   -0        
IA~~~~~k
.~~                                                                                                                                       ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -g:
°~ ~~ 2b 2    B3    5                   a      j            nas'  n__5  £ £      H__£gSa     
~~~                                                      p.~~~ 
a s0                   ga e                e
X ~ ~ ~ * a    o-                                                                                               *4    o e                    oaaa                        oaaao    
.4   .      .4  rI        .           r                    r. ..4.4...                                      ...... ........ . .494 .
4 r  4       0 S0 o                                                                                        4 °   e  , a  0   a  4 1 a  4 4 0 a s  a _
:                    *4*4 e    e    e-               --                 -- ; e    e o    o    e    o                                           0   - - - - - -  - - -   I '
I    o    o    o    o4        0b                                °°°0Wbb0                   Oooou         
*    o    o4 o    o o.4 444 o844... o                                                  ooo   OUoooggggWW
*~~. S4    00             00  S              00..            .4S400...                                                       I S4 S                      O            .O4        gOgg0 
*  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _    _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _    _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _



157 _
ANNEX 1 1
Table 1 (ii)
I    I                    I                              I           INo OPIDURATI     I                         I         I
| No I     COURSE         I       ATTENDANTS             I  AREA   IATT. IDAYS IPLACEI          LECTURER         I  DATE  I  COST
138 IPAV£HENT             IFI:LD ENGINEERS AND SUP1'.STAPFICIVIL     I 45 1  5 ILPZ. IFOREING CONSULTANT         104.04.94 |  6,000.00 I
I    IRECYCLING INSPECTIONI                              I           I     I     I     I                         I         I
1 39 ICONCRETE PAVENENT  IFIELD ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAFFICIVIL       | 45     5 ILPZ. IFORSING CONSULTANT        104.25.94 1  6,000.00 I
|    JINSPECTION          I                              I           I     I     I     I                         I         I
| 40 ISTRUCTURAL WORKS    IFIELD ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPPICIVIL      I 45 1  5 ILPZ. IPOREING CONSULTANT         105.16.94 1  6,000.00 I
I    JINSPECTION          I                              I           I     I     I     I                         I         I
| 41 ICONCRETE STRUCTURES IPIELD ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPPICIVIL      1 45 1  5 ILPZ. IPOREING CONSULTANT         106.06.94 1  5,000.00 1
|    |INSPECTION          I                              I           I     I     I     I                         I         I            i
1 42 IANALITHICAL VERIPI. IFIELD ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPFICIVIL      I 45 1  5 ILPZ. IFOREING CONSULTANT         106.27.94 1  6,000.00 1
I    ICATION OF CONCRETE  I                              I           I     I     I     I                         I         I            I
| 43 IROAD RESEALING INSP.IPIELD ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPFICIVIL      I 45 1  5I LPZ. IFOREING CONSULTANT         107.18.94 I  6,000.00 1
i 44 ISItPLE AND MULTIPLE IFIELD ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAFPICIVIL      I 45 1  5 ILPZ. IFOREING CONSULTANT         108.08.94 |  5,000.00 I
I    IASPHALTS            I                              I           I     I     I     I                         I         I
I45 IBASIC SURVEYING      IPIELD ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPFICIVIL      1 45 1 10 ILPZ. ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    108.29.94 1  4,500.00 I
146 IADVANCED SURVEYINO  IPIELD ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPFICIVIL       1 45 1 10 ILPZ. ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    109.19.94 1  4,500.00 I
1 47 ICONCRETE ADITIVES   ICIVIL ENGINEERS               ICIVIL      I 45 1  5 ILPZ. INATIONAL CONSULTANT        110.10.94 1  3,500.00
| 48 ICLEARING AND        ICIVIL ENGINEERS                CIVIL      1 45 I  5 ILPZ. INATIONAL CONSULTANT        110.31.94 1  3,500.00 I
IBRUSHING OF BRIDGES I                                  I           I     I    I      I                         I         I
I49 ICONPUTERIZET        ICIVIL ENGINEERS                ICIVIL      I 45 i  5 ILPZ. IFOREING CONSULTANT         111.21.94 I  6,000.00 I
|    fHIGNWAY DESIGN      I                              I           I     I     I     I                         I         I
I 50 IHIGHWAYS - BASIC    ICIVXL ENGINE£RS               ICIVIL      I 45 1  5 ILPZ. IFOREING CONSULTANT         112.12.94 1  6,500.00
151 fADVANCED             ICIVIL ENGINEERS               ICIVIL      I 45 1  5 ILPZ. IFOREING CONSULTANT         101.16.94 1  6,500.00 I
IHIGHWAY SOILS           I                              I           I     I    I      I                         I         I            I
152 IM&INTENANCE          ICIVIL ENGINEERS               ICIVIL      I 15 I  1 IDIST. TRAINING DIVISION SNC    102.27.95 I    900.00 I
I    IPROBLES             I                              I           I    I      I     I                         I         I
I 53 IASPHALT CRACRS     IFIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPF ICIVIL       I 15 I  1 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    103.20.95 1    900.00 I
I    IREPAIR              I                              I           I     I     I     I                         I         I            I
| 54 IBASE AND SUBBASE   I|IEE ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPF ICIVIL       I 15       IIDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    104.10.95 I    900.00 I
I    IREPAIR              I                              I           I     I     I     I                         I         I            I
I 55 |ASPHALT PATCHING    IFIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPF ICIVIL      | 15 |  1 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    101.0S.95 I    900.00 I
I    I REPAIR             I                              I           I     I     I     I                         I         I            I
56 IRELEVELING          IPIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAFPF ICVIL   |     15 |   1 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    10S.2..95 I    900.00 I
I 57 IMOTOR GRADER        IPIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPP ICIVIL      I 15 I  4 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    106.12.95 1  1,500.00 |
|    IOPERATION           I                              I           I     I     I     I                         I         I            I
I 56 IATICULATE MOTOR.  IPIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPF ICIVIL        I 15 |  2 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    107.17.95 1  1,000.00 I
I    IORADE OPERATION     I                              I           I     I    I      I                         I         I            I
I 59 IFRONT LOADERS      IFIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPF ICIVIL       | 15 |  2 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    108.14.95 I  1,500.00 I
I    IOPEQTION            I                              I           I     I    I      I                         I         I            I
I60 ICOMFACTORS OPERATIONIFIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPP ICIVIL       I 15 |  4 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    109.18.95 I  1,500.00 I
I61 ITRUCTOR OPERATION   IPIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPr ICIVIL       I 15 |  4 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVtSION SNC    110.16.95 I  1.500.00 I
I62 IWELDED JOINTS        ICIVIL AND HECHANICAL ENOINEERSICIVIL      I 45 I  5 |LPZ. IFOREtGN CONSULTANT         111.13.95 1  6,000.00 I
I63 IROADS PHYSICAL      ICtVIL ENGINEERS                ICIVIL      I 45 I  S ILPZ. IFOREIGN CONSULTANT         112.11.95 I  6,000.00 I
I    ICIA.ACTERISTIES     I                              I           I     I     I     I                         I         I            I
I64 ICRUSHERS OPERATION  IEQUIRMErT OPERATIONS AND ASSISICIVIL       I 15 |  2 IDIST.IIOREIGN CONSULTANT         107.12.92 |    900.00 I
1 65 IASPEALT DISTRIBUTOR IEQUIRPNT OPERATORS            ICIVtL      I  5 I  I IDIST. ITRAZNING DIVISION SNC    104.06.92 I  3.000.00 1
| 66 IASPhALT DISTRIBUTOlR ISQUIPHrT OPERATORS AND ASSIS.ICIVIL      I  5   I 1   IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    106.01.92 1    551.00 I
I    IDAILY thINTENAN(.£   I                             I           I     I    I      I                         I         I             I
I.                                                                                                                                      I



- 158 -
ANNEX 1 1
Table 1 (iii)
---------------------------------------------…-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I                    I                               I           iNcN OFIDURATI    I                          I         I
No I      COURSE         I       ATTENDANTS             I    AMEA  IATT. IDAYS IPLACEI             LECTURER      I  DATE  I   COST
…---I-------------------- I…--                            I-    -    _ I…    I----- I-----I------------------------- _I-  -  I
167 IHOTORGRAIDER DAILY  IEQUIPHENT OPERATORS AND ASSIS.INECHANtCAL I 15 I  1 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    107.227.921          900.00
I    I| AINTNDE           I                               I           I     I     I     I                          I         I             I
I 68 IFRONT LOADER DAILY  IEQUIPHENT OPERATORS AND ASSIS. INECHANICAL 1 15 1   1 IDIST. ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    109-21-92 1    900.00
I    IHAINTENANCE         I                               I           I     I     I     I                          I         I
169 ICOOPACTOR DAILY      IEQUIPNENT OPERATORS AND ASSIS.INECHANICAL 1 15 1  1 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    111.16.92 1    900.00 I
I    IHAINTENANCE         I                               I           I     I     I     I                          I         I
I70 IDUHP TRUCKS DAILY   |EQUIPHENT OPERATORS AND ASSIS.-IECHANICAL 1 15 I  1 IDIST.ITR&INING DIVISION SNC    101.11.93 1    900.00 I
I    INAINTENANCE         I                               I           I        I     I                I                 I           I
I71 ITRACTOR DAILY        lEQUIPHENT OPERATIORS AND ASSISINECHANICAL I 15 I  1 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    103.08.93 1    900.00 I
I    INAINTENANCE         I                               I           I     I     I      I                         I         I             I
1 72 ILIGHT VEHICLES      IEQUIPHENT OPERATORS AND ASSIS.I|ECHANICAL I 15 I  I IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    105.10.93 1    900.00 I
I    IHAINTENANCE         I                               I           I     I     I      I                         I
1 73 jCONCRETE ASPHALT    IFIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPP ICIVIL       I 15 I  1 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    107.12.93 1    900.00
I    IPATCNING REPAIR     I                               I           I     I     I     I                          I         I
1 74 ITRAPIC CONTROL      IPIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAFF |CIVIL       I 15 |  1 IDIST.ITRAINIAG DIVISION SNC    108.30.93 1    900.00
I    IMAINTENANCE         I                               I           i     I     I    I                           I         I
1 75 ICOHHON HAINTENANCE  I|IEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAFF ICIVyL       I 15 I  1 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    110.11.93 I    900.00 I
PROBLENS                 I                               I           I     I     I     I                          I         I
1 76 IASPNALT PAVEHENS    IFIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPF ICIVIL       I 15 1  1 IDIST.iTRAINING DIVISION SNC    112.06.93 1    900.00 I
I |  CR CKS               I                               I           I     I     I     I                          I         II
I77 I3ASE AND SUBBASE    1FIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAFF ICIVIL        I 15 I  1 IDIST. ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    102.28.94 1    900.00 I
I    IREPAIR              I                               I           I     I     I      I                         I         I
I78 |StTUHIORES ASPHALT IFIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPP ICIVIL         I 15 I  I IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    104.18.94 |    900.00 I
I    IPATCHING REPAIR     I                               I           I     I     I      I                         I         I
1 79 IRELEVELING          IPIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAUF ICIVIL       I 15 1   1 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    106.13.94 |    900.00 I
I 80 IMOTORGRMDERS        IPIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPF ICIVIL       I 15 I  1 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    108.15.94 1  1.500.00 I
|    IOPERATION           I                               I           I     I     I      I                         I         I
I81 IARTICULATE HOTOR-   IFIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPF ICIVIL        I 15 1  1 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    110.17.94 1   1,000.00 I
I    IGRADERS OPERATION   I                               I           I     I     I     I                          I         I             I
1 82 IFRONT LOADERS       IFIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAFF ICIVIL       I 15 I  I IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    112.05.94 1  1.500.00 I
I    IOPERATION           I                               I           I     I     I      I                         I         I             I
| 83 ICONPACTORS OPERATIONIPIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPF ICIVIL       I 15 1  4 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    102.13.95 1  1,500.00 1
184 ITRACTORS OPERATION  IFIEL ENGINEERS AND SUPP.STAPF ICIVIL        1 15 1  4 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    104.03.95 1  1,500.00 |
1 85 iDUHP TRUCKS         IASSISTANT DRIVERS              ICIVIL      | 15 |  2 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    105.29.95 1  1.000.00 I
I    IOPERhTION           I                               I           I     I     I      I                         I         I             I
I 86 1JELEVELING AN       IEQUIPHENT OPERATORS AND ASSISTICIVIL       I 15 I  I IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    107.24.95 I    900.00 I
I |LEVELING OF RDS        I                               I           I     I     I      I                         I         I             I
1 87 ICLEANING OF DITCNES IEQUIPHENT OPERATORS AND ASSISTICIVIL       I 15 I  I IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    118.09.95 1    900.00
I 68 IREGRAVELLING        IEQUIPHENT OPERATORS AND ASSISTICIVIL       1 15 1  1 IDIST.ITRAINING DIVISION SNC    110.20.95 1    900.00 I
I    ITOTAL               I                               I           I     I     I      I                         I         1 250000.00 1
---.____-..…I--                                                                                                      -      -       -       I



_ 159 _
Annex 1l
Table 2
2.1  COST OF EQUIPMENT FOR TRAINING COURSES
UNITS                   I T E M                               SB.
1   Printer ...        .........................             900
1   Color Microcomputer ................                  5.700
1   Photocopier ......................      ..            9.500
1   Professional Portable Video
Camera ................................... .          2.500
1   Editing Equipment (Movies and
Video) .............................           .     ........     . 7.700
1   Data Show ................... .......                 3.000
2   Acrylic Boards (2xl.30mts.) and
Markers ............................            .       ........... 500
1   Color Portable Microcomputer .......                  4.500
4   Transparent Projectors .............                  2.500
4   Screens (3x2.5mts.) with tripode...                   3.200
SUS TOTAL                    $US ..........              40.000
2.2 COST OF MATERIALS FOR TRAINING ACTIVITIES
UNITS                   I TEM                                  JS.
1   Photocopier Paper ..................                  1.750
1   Computer Paper .....................                  1.750
1   Cassettes for VHS and Beta .........                  1.500
1   Covers for Texts ...................                     500
1   Office Supplies ...................                   1.000
1   Computer Diskettes .................                  1.000
1   Computer Ribbons ...................                     500
1   Computer Disikettes Protectors .....                     500
1   Electric Power Regulators ..........                  1.500
SUB   TOTAL                  $Us ..........              10.000



_160 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 4
BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Proiect components evaluated
1.       An economic evaluation was made of 64 sub-projects to improve the
condition of the roads included in the periodic maintenance component of the
loan. The paved network sub-projects finally included in the Project have a
total length of 781 km, a base financial cost of US$42.6 million and an
economic rate of return of 36.6%. The only paved links excluded from the
evaluation were those sections of road which have had a reconstruction project
in the last three years, such as the La Paz - Oruro road currently being
reconstructed with finance from the Export Corridors Project. The gravel
network component has total length of 765 km, a base financial cost of US$17.5
million and an economic rate of return of 45.0%. The economic rate of return
for the periodic maintenance component as a whole is 39.2%. This component of
the project accounts for 72% of the total investment funds and 58% of the IDA
component of the project.
2.        The equipment rehabilitation program (US$3.0 million) was also
subject to an economic evaluation. This component of the project will extend
the economic life of each unit of equipment and postpone purchases of new
equipment. The rehabilitation cost of each unit of equipment does not exceed
40% of its replacement cost, with the average cost at 25%, which yields an
average economic return of 42%.
3.        The principal benefit of the project is a reduction in vehicle
operating cost (about 702 of total benefits), with reduced future highway
maintenance and reconstruction costs as an important secondary benefit
(accounting for about 152 of the total). Savings in car and bus passenger
time costs account for the remaining 152 of the total benefits. The evaluation
results are summarized in the following Table, and provided for each link in
Tables 1 (paved network) and 2 (gravel network):
Paved        Gravel   Total
Units     Network       Network   project
---------------------------------_--_-.,---------------_---_-__-------
Length of roads  included     km          781           765      1,546
Nlumber of road links                      32            28         60
Financial cost                USS m     42.65         17.87      60.52
Economic cost                 USS m     36.90         16.81      53.71
Financial cost per km         US$      54,961        22,827     39,044
Economic rate of return (ERR)  2         36.6          45.0       39.2
ERR with 252 extra cost         2        30.6          34.6       31.8
ERR with zero passenger time    %        33.0          38.9       34.-1
…------,------------_ _- _----------- _----- _------ __--------- __- _-…-



_161 _
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 4
Method of evaluation
4.        The economic analysis of the periodic maintenance component was
carried out ubing the Highway Design and Maintenance Model. The sections to
be rehabilitated were divided into links which were considered homogeneous in
terms of traffic levels and physical condition. For each link, traffic was
projected based on historical trends and expected population and production
growth in the region. The overall traffic growth rate adopted for the
economic evaluation was the lower of the rate calculated uoing information
specific to the locality of the road and the historic average growth rate.
5.        Estimates of the investment costs for both periodic maintenance
components were based on engineering studies for overlays, surface
improvements, sealing and regravelling. Using engineering data and climatic
and geographic data, as well as traffic characteristics and cost parameters,
the model simulated the operating conditions for each link and calculated
total vehicle operating and highway maintenance costs for the situations with
and vithout the proposed sub-project.
Alternatives evaluated
6.        The following options were examined by the model in 842 km. of the
paved networks  (i)   routine maintenance only;
(ii)  sealing of 10 mm. (only for roads with asphalt
concrete);
(iii) double surface treatment of 20 mm; and,
(iv)  asphalt concrete overlay of 50 mm.
Four components of post-project routine maintenance were considered for each
soction of paved road evaluated:
(i) patching;
(ii) resealing;
(lit) patching and resealing; and
(iv) routine maintenance.
7.        A separate analysis was conducted for 925 km of the gravel roads.
The evaluatod project was similar In all casses provision of a new surface of
l50 m. of gravel, with associated complementary works such as construction of
retaining walls, provislon of drainage, etc¢ Four components of post project
routine maintonance were considered for each section of read evaluated:
S1)   replacement of between 5 and 50 m3lkm/year of gravel;
(itJ  grading at intervals determined by the volume of
traffic, between once every 15 and 90 days;
(iii)  replacement of the surface with 100l150 mm. of new
gravel at intervals also determined by the volume of
traffcl; and
(iv) routine maintonance.
8.      The Highway Design Model Is designed to recommend the solution which
mintmizee the net present value of the costs aesociated with each solution



- 162 -
ANNEX ,12
Page 3 of 4
including inventment and maintenance costs and vehicle operating costs. The
higher the traffic level, the more rapid is the deterioration in road
condition and the more likely is a higher-cost investment alternative. The
analysis resulted in the solutions recommended in the following paragraph.
Evaluation results
9.        Of the 1,767 km of road analyzed, 221 km merit only routine
maintenance because the low actual and projected traffic do not produce
sufficient benefits to justify the investment. These sections of road were
therefore excluded from the Project. Of the remaining 1,546 km included in
the Project:
186 km justify overlay,
510 km justify surface treatment,
85 km justify sealing and
765 km of gravel roads merit regravelling.
10.       The economic rates of return varied from a maxinum of more than
1OOZ to a minimum of 15.82 for the finally accepted projects. The average rato
of return by year of implementation of oub-project and surface type ist
Year                      Paved              Gravel          Total
1992                     37.32                34.52          36.12
1993                     33.72                50.7%          36.92
1994                     43.82                65.0%          49.42
1995                     36.72                48.02          39.32
11.       The phasing of implementation of sub-projects originally took
account of their estimated economic rate of return, with sub-projects with
hiSher ratoe  being allocated to the earlier years of the project, but in
course of preparation of the Project, tho evaluation results changes as the
construction cost estimates and other critical values were rovised. The range
of evaluation results io now so small that It was seen to be little advantage
in redooiging the Project on the basis of the latest evaluation results.
Sensitlvity tstt
12.      Three full sensitivity analysis were carried out on the economic
evaluation of those project components; the first analysis considered a 252
increase In construction and maintenance costs, but kept the benefits
constant. On the paved netwwork, all sub-projects maintained acceptable rateo
of return. On the gravel network, five sub-projecte, with a total length of 87
km and a total cost of US$ 3.7 million failed to achieve a satisfactory rate
of return. Thore ara :easons to believe that the economic rate of return on
the these sub-projects Is underestimated because of the conservative
asswumptions of traffic growth. They ate all expected to have higher than
awrorags traffic growth rates because they provide links to conmitted new
industrial developments. They have therefore been retained In the Project.



- 163 -
ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 4
1S.       The second sensitivity test was to reduce project benefits by 30%.
With this test, only one sub-project on the paved network failed to achieve a
satisfactory rate of return. On the gravel network, in addition to the five
links which failed to achieve an acceptable result on the previous test, a
further four sub-projects were in this situation. Two of the four gravel
network links were in the same geographic region as the sub-projects reviewed
in the previous test and were retained in the Project for the same reason. The
remaining three links which failed on the second test are in areas of
exceptional projected agricultural development, and so are also expected to
have benefits in excess of those evaluated and so are retained in the Project.
With the reduction of passenger time benefits to zero, all subprojects
maintained acceptable rates of return.
Detailed-results
14.      The estimated cost and economic rate of return for each road link are
shown in Tables 1 and 2. The rates of return are based on comparing the cost
and benefits of the proposed solution with the second best alternative. A
minimum rate of return of 12% was required for any road periodic maintenance
project to be included in the program. Values in excess of 602 are considered
unreliable as they assume that the benefits of the project can be invested in
other projects providing a similar high rate of return. These sub-projects
will provide rates of return of at least 602, it is the excess above this rate
which is uncertain. The weighted economic return is for the four-year program
as a whole. Given the sensitivity of economic rates of return to the
investment cost of sub-projects, agreement will be reached during negotiations
that, before undertaking any investment, IDA will be consulted if final
engineering for any sub-project results in cost estimates exceeding the
original estimate by more than 25X in dollar terms.
15.      The economic analyses described above underestimate the true economic
benefits of the road rehabilitation program because It they not quantify the
additional benefits to be derived from increased industry activity or lost
production due to hiigher transport cost under the second best alternative.
They do not take account of the benefits of generated traffic or the benefits
of reduced Interruptions to transport flows from bridge and road flood
washaways.
Additional analyses
16.      Furthermore, the Bank's HDM model was used to analyze different
quantity standards for routine maintenance and select the optimum alternative
for a specific road condition. The levels of maintenance were so optimized and
used in the SAM to obtain the maintenance program and budget. Another model,
the Expenditure Budgeting Model was then used, Interacting with the I1DM model,
to select the maintenance policies and maximize the Investment under the
budget restrictions. These new quantity standards were then used In the SAM
to determine another maintenance program, adjusted to the resources available.



_ 164
BOLIVIA
Annex 12
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT                                            Table I
RESULTS OF ECONOMIC EVALUATION
a) Paved network                                      -- Sensitivity Tests ....
................                        AADT                                           Cost    Benefit      Passengers
Length    veh/     Cost/km    Totat Cost    Basic        +25X        -30X       Time a 0
uink      Road Section            kms    day         USS            USS    ERR %      ERR X      ERR X           ERR X
....................................................................................................................
First Year Program
1 EL ALTO-VIACHA              21.2   1083       81,048      1,718,218     51.3       43.2       34.7            44.6
2 LA PAZ-COTAPATA              38.5    556      45,886      1,766,607     16.6       12.7        8.4            16.5
3 WARNES-HONTERO               19.6   1960      94,310      1,848,485     28.0       23.7        18.8             na
4 SAN ISIDRO-LA PALIZADA        7.2    156      53,300        383,225     27.5       22.7        17.5           24.6
5 LA PALIZADA-ABRA DEL GUIN    8.9    175       53,300       471,703      28.3       23.1        17.4           24.5
6 ABRA DEL QUINE-MATARAL       19.5    175      53,300      1,037,213     28.3       23.1        17.4           24.5
7 MATARAL-AGUA CLARA           26.0    235      53,300      1,385,794     58.1       48.4       38.6            50.8
8 AGUA CLARA-MAIRANA           24.5    235      53,300      1,305,844     58.1       48.4       38.6            50.8
9 TARUMA-LA GUARDIA            36.3    939      16,733        607,409     23.3       19.9        16.0             na
....................................................................................................................
Sub total                  201.6              52,205    10,524,498      37.3       31.0       24.3            27.5
Second Year Program
10 GUILLACOLLO-VINTO            4.0   4002       60,305        241,218     59.5       52.2       44.5              na
11 VINTO-SUTICOLLO              8.6   1620       56,691       487,544      48.2       34.6       28.4            40.7
12 SUTICOLLO-PAROTANI           13.0    882      82,851      1,077,063     38.9       31.7       24.5            34.6
13 PAROTANI-CONFITAL            78.7    689      77,237     6,078,561      21.5       17.2       12.5            19.4
14 GUABIRA-KH 24                24.0    600      87,278     2,094,660      43.1       36.9       30.0            37.3
15 KM 24-OKINAWA                21.0    600     130,945     2,749,853      43.1       36.9       30.0            37.3
16 ORURO-VINTO                  5.7   1144       24,588        140,149     86.4       73.2       59.0            74.1
17 VINTO-MACHACAMARCA          25.1    491       48,689     1,222,092      23.0       18.0       12.6            18.8
18 GUABIRA-MINEROS             27.0   1267       79,212     2,133,711      40.4       33.8       26.8              na
19 MINEROS-CHANE                13.0    466     155,565     2,022,339      33.8       27.6       21.0            27.4
Sub total                  220.1              82,927    18,252,190      33.7       27.8       21.7            24.4
Third Year Program
20 COCHABAMBA-ANGOSTURA         14.7   1841      70,000      1,027,600     79.7       71.3       62.3            74.4
21 ANGOSTURA-IOLATA             14.7   1277      70,000      1,031,800     50.7       44.9       38.7            47.4
22 TOLATA-PARACAYA              11.5    897      70,000        802,200     33.0       26.4        19.5           25.7
23 RIO SECO-HUARINA             56.2    735      35,000      1,967,000     41.4       35.1       28.3            34.5
24 HUARINA-TIQUINA              39.0    335      35,000      1,365,000     27.0       21.0        14.6           20.3
25 TOIATAS-TARIJA                3.5   1748      18,800         65,800     63.0       55.5       47.'              no
26 TARIJA-Cr.SAN GERONIMO        5.7    997      18,800        107,160     52.5       45.7       38.4              na
2? Cr. SAN CERONINO-PADCAYA    40.0    324       18,800        752,000     30.8       25.9        20.5           28.4
....................................................................................................................
Sub total                   185.3             38,421     7,118,560      43.8       37.4       30.6            36.9
fourth Year Program
28 PARACAYA-LA VILLA             5.5   468       40.000        219,600     72.0       61.7        51.3           62.4
29 LA VILLA-EPIZANA             79.6   222       40,000     3,182,000      20.9       16.3        11.5           19.1
30 EPIZANA-POJO                 73.8    135      40,000      2,952,000     49.5       42.1        34.4           46.7
31 TOLATA-CLIZA                  7.2    94.8     40,000        288,000     41.1       34.5        27.6           33.5
32 PARACAYA-PUNATA               3.0    925      40,000        120,000     62.9       53.6        43.9           55.1
............    ,    .....
Sub total                   169.0             40,000     6,761,600      35.7       30.5       24.1            33.8
....................................................................................................................
Total Paved Road Sub project   776.0              54,969    42,656,848      36.6       30.6        24.2           28.7
..... ....................................   ........................



- 16.5-
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT                                          Annex 12
Table 2
RESULTS OF ECONOMIC EVALUATION
.................. ................................
b)  Gravel network                                                                 -----  Sensitivity Tests ......
......... .....  ......                AADT                                           Cost    Benefit     Passengers
Length    veh/     Cost/km    Total Cost    Basic       .25%        -30%       Time = 0
Link      Road Section           kms   day          US$            USS    ERR X      ERR %      ERR %           ERR X
first Year Program
1 HUARINA - ACHACACHI         20.0   330       26,016        520,320     48.9       39.0       32.2            39.9
2 ACHACACHI - ANCORAIMES      36.0   200        21,246       764,870     86.2       69.3       57.7            70.1
3 VILLA TUNARI  ETERASANA    27.0   495         18,557       501,026    122.2       92.0       72.9            96.1
4 OUILLACOLLO - BELLA VISTA    5.0   219        28,241       141,206    114.5       92.4       77.1            87.7
14 SAN MIGUEL - SAN FRANCISC   23.0   225       24,674        567,497     4i.4       33.5       28.0            35.9
5 LA LORA-AROMA               11.0   229        28,895       317,844     16.3         na         na            14.5
6 INGENIO MORA-SAN JOAJUIN    11.0    129       45,150       496,646     15.8        8.2        2.8              na
7 OKINAUA-Pto. BANEGAS        15.0   280       34,863        522,945     19.9       11.6        5.9              na
8 Cr.Rt.4-QUIRUSILLAS        -29.0    89       41,335      1,198,718     18.2       12.8        8.9            14.5
9 TEXAS-CANDELARIA            20.0   146        52,188     1,043,756     15.6       10.9        7.5            12.5
10 ANCORAIMES - ESCOMA         39.0   145        13,130       512,055     54.7       43.3       3S.5            44.3
11 LA PALIZADA-PUENTE TAPERA   43.0   104       29,520      1,269,375     24.4       18.3       13.9            20.5
sub total                  279.0             28,159      7,856,258     34.5       26.0       20.7            27.1
Second Year Program
12 EL ALTO - CHACALTAYA        22.0    110      11,585        254,872     22.1       15.7       11.1            19.0
13 Cr.Rt.7 - Pto. VILLARROEL   25.0   240        19,193       479,837     26.9       21.5       17.4            23.6
14 Cr.Rt.4 - CAPINOTA   IRPA   29.0   282       16,588        481,052    111.2         na         na              na
15 POJO  NLIITE DISTRITAL      34.0   135       20,637        701,658     90.4       72.2       68.3             na
16 HATARAL-VALLE GRANDE        53.0    65        17,696       937,879     20.8       14.4        9.5            17.4
17 MADRECITAS-SAN NICOLAS      12.0    108      49,258        591,090     15.6        7.1        0.9              na
18 LIMITE DISTRITAL-COMARAPA   25.0   131       15,025       375,621    103.6        82.0       67.5           83.7
19 COMARAPA-SAN ISIDRO         20.0   156       12,387        247,730    179.1      141.8      116.7            96.4
20 YAPACANI-COLONIIA SAN JUAN   13.0   247       13,885       180,511    119.0       95.9       80.3           102.1
....................................................................................................................
Sub total                    233             18,241     4,250,250      50.7       39.0       32.3           25.0
Third Year Program
21 MALLASA   VALENCIA          14.0   157       26,016        364,224     39.6       29.9       23.1            33.1
22 Cr.Rt.4   EL PASO            6.0   338        16,588        99,528    177.7      141.6      117.5           139.8
23 AIWILE-EPIZANA              89.0    116       16,588     1,476,332     74.1       57.6       46.6            67.9
24 YAMPARAEZ-TAPABUCO          36.0   129        16,5e8       597,168     39.3       31.1       25.3            34.5
....................................................................................................................
Sub total                  145.0              1?,498    2,53?,252      65.0       50.7       41.0            57.9
Fourth Year Program
25 ORURO-CAPACHOS-PARIA        21.0   326        26,016       546,336     24.0       17.9       16.6            19.5
26 MACHACAMARCA-NUANUNI        22.0   217       26,016        572,352     91.6       76.3       65.7            72.0
27 SUCRE-YAMPARAEZ             29.0   145        16,588       461,052     51.1       40.3       32.8            43.8
28 COIJA-PORVENIR              33.0   299       34,863      1,150,479     27.3       21.3       17.0            23.3
....................................................................................................................
Sub total                  105.0             26,193     2,750,219      48.0       37.6       30.9           36.3
total Cravel Network           762.0             22,827    17,393,979      45.1       34.6       28.1           32.5
....................................................................................................................
Total ProJect                 1538.0             39,044    60,050,82?      39.1       31.8       25.3            29.8
...........................................................................................                   .



_ 166
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 6
BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Environmental Impact
1.    Introduction
The civil works financed by the Project are road works (periodic and
routine), with no new construction or major upgrading. Therefore, they will
not cause significant environmental impacts. Only minor impacts may be
expected, mainly extraction of materials, used in road improvement and
maintenance activities, and waste disposal. On the other hand, improved road
maintenance implies environmental benefits by reducing road-related erosion
and improving stream drainage at road crossings. A study of all these
possible effects was carried out by a consultant hired by SNC and financed by
the Export Corridors Project (Credit 2012-BO). The following paragraphs show
a summary of this study, the conclutions and recommendations and the
specifications to be included in the bidding documents and SNC's code of
maintenance, as safeguards against the possible negative effects on the
environment produced by the maintenance works.
2.    Summarl of the Studv
The objectives of the study on the environmental impact of the road
maintenance works included In the Project are:
D     to assess the positive and negative effects on the environment
produced by the programmed works;
-     to establish the conditions to accept or modify the works; and,
D     to prepare the recommendations to avoid or minimize possible
negative impacts. (These recommendations will be incorporated as
specifications Into the bidding documents for all the civil works
financed by the Project and into the SNC code of maintenance).
Introducing the environmental variable in the program of road
maintenance will provide more secure decision making in choosing the best
alternative, considering natural resources protection and development
Interests.
For the purposes of the study, Bolivia was divided into ecological
regions according to the Ellenberg classification (modified). These regions
are called environmental units and are the following: humid and mountainous
jungle, low sub-humid jungle, easily flooded savanna with forest Islands, low
and mountainous semi-humid forest, low semi-arid mountain, semi-humid and
semi-arid valleys, semi-humid puna with trees, high andean semi-humid puna
floor with trees, semi-arid and arid puna, high andean semi-humid floor
without cultivation, and high andean semi-arid and arid floor with
cultivation.



- 167 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 6
The assigned environmental units are described in terms of its climatic
conditions, types of vegetation, animal life, etc. Each unit shows the
location and characteristics of national parks and protected areas. Some of
these ecological regions or environmental units of Bolivia were visited by the
consultant in order to analyze the environmental impacts caused by road
construction, operation and maintenance, including landscape, hydric and
edafologic resources, wild life, vegetation, use of land and human health.
The problems created by the roads are described for each environmental unit.
All positive and negative effects were classified in three categories,
according to the benefits or damages caused in the ecosystems.
As a result of the analysis made, the study concludes that:
a)    The impact of road maintenance activities depends on the type of
road and the environmental factors. Environmental impacts of road
maintenance are minor compared to these produced by road
construction and operation of the existing network.
b)    Most road maintenance works have positive impacts, especially
those related to drainage improvements, including construction of
channels, ditches and sewers. Such positive effects contribute to
improve the landscape, geomtrphology, hydrology and socioeconomic
factors.
c)    The major negative impacts of the Project will be produced by the
extraction and exploitation of materials for aggregates, which
have a negative effect on the landscape, vegetation, soil and
hydrologic systems. Deposits for waste materials will be selected
with the assistance of a specialist in environmental impact and,
once the quarries are abandoned, actions for fast vegetation
recovery will be required.
d)    If some road embankment must be put up, the roads may become
breakwaters and prevent the normal water flow. In these cases,
road maintenance projects will include adequate bridges and sewers
to avoid water damming.
e)    Negative impacts may also arise from asphalt overlays, due to
detour construction, removal of damaged asphalt, and manufacture
and spreading of asphalt mixes. Detours and accesses may alter
the landscape, hydrology, soil, and vegetation at the local level,
while the work with asphaltic mixes at high temperature could
eventually damage the human health due to toxic gases and loud
noise.
3.    Conclusions and Recommendations
a)    Conclusions.
-     In general, the activities of the maintenance programs will have a
positive impact for the ecosystems and the social medium.



- 168
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 6
The proposed road maintenance programs will also eliminate or
reduce negative impacts produced by past road construction and/or
lack of road maintenance.
b)    Recommendations.
In road sections where the embankment must be reconstructed,
particularly if they are in savanna and flat areas, drainage
systems and adequate bridges will be provided. These will allow
the normal flow of waters, avoiding damages to the nearby areas
and the road itself.
Borrow materials must be extracted preferably from distant
quarries provided with adequate drainage, so that the landscape
and the hydrologic system will not be altered significantly.
The possible water bodies caused by existing embankments without
adequate drainage in the vicinity of populated areas, must be
adequately drained or, if it is not possible, the stagnant waters
must be treated with adequate plant species to avoid infections
and other health problems among residents.
The SNC Environmental Unit (EU) must participate in the selection
of quarries, to cause the minimum impact on the environment.
Once the quarries are abandoned, fast action for re-establishing
former vegetation should be taken. If necessary, autochthonous
species will be sown.
When graveling in zones close to populated areas, special gravel
mixes with low levels of lime should be used as much as possible,
in order to mitigate dust problems.
Workers permanently in contact with dust or asphalt mixes must use
mouth-nose protectors provided by the contractor, in accordance
with the guidelines of the equipment manufacturer and with the
existing labor regulations.
The contractor/SNC must provide milk to the workers on a daily
basis, to counteract the effects of the toxic gases from asphalt
mixes in the human body.
The contractor/SNC must provide ear, eyers, hand and feet
protectors to their workers for removal of asphalt mixes by
compressors.
In zones where work compounds and workshops must be installed, the
contractor/SNC must restore the original landscape in the place
when the works are finished. Security measures should avoid
spillage of contaminated hydrocarbons in the workshops.



169
ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 6
-     WWhen the work compounds and workshops have to be installed in
forest areas, the contractor/SNC will avoid the falling of trees
and the lighting of fires, as much as possible.
-     If maintenance activities are carried out done in protected areas
or national parks, it will be necessary a specific assessment by
the SNC Environmental Unit. In these cases environment
recommendations for construction and feasibility should be
considered and the assessment should be coordinated with the
institution charged of protected areas at the national level.
-     In order to assess the environmental impact of road maintenance,
it is recommended to monitor regularly the main roads of the
network. Quarterly reports will be prepared by the EU regarding
possible environmental changes and suggesting correction measures.
Fences and installations other than that needed for road  services
must be prohibited in the right-of-way areas.
4.    Specifications for Contractors and SNC:
Based on the recommendations above, a set of specifications has been
prepared. These specifications will be adopted by SNC and will be included in
the bidding documents for works by contract and in the SNC's code of
maintenance. Following is a summary of these specifications:
-     Where the climatic conditions allow it, the existing organic
ground on the top layer of quarries or lending stone banks should
be kept and deposited for the subsequent recovery of the original
conditions.
-     After the extraction of materials from quarries or river beds, the
contractor/SNC will re-establish the original vegetation and the
ecological conditions of the areas where the materials were
extracted.
-     The contractor/SNC will require prior authorization, that should
be justified in advance, to extract boulders, pebbles, sand or
other construction materials from the beds of water courses.
-     On flat lands subject to floods (stagnation) from water drains or
with slow drainage (in particular, near towns or settlements) the
contractor will not dig ditches or pits to extract borrow
materialo, without a drainage plan based on a land survey to
adequate scale.
-     In road sections where asphalt concrete or other materials must be
removed and discarded, the contractor/SIW will deposit or bury
them in far or isolated areas, but never in river beds or water
courses.



- 170-
ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 6
Asphalt plants will be installed, whenever possible, on easily
accessible flat lands, lacking vegetation, and located not very
close to towns.
In nearby populated areas, the contractor/SNC will use, as much as
possible, mixtures with a low lime content to avoid problems
related with dust.
In sections where the construction of embankments is necessary,
the contractor/SNC will construct adequate bridge and drainage
systems to allow stream drainage.
In case of water bodies parallel to the roads, the contractor/SNC
will construct drainage systems or plan decontaminating vegetable
species to avoid infectious diseases.
In flat lands, where road embankments must be put up, the
contractor/SNC will use materials from deposits where the hydric
system, land and vegetation will not be affected.
During the works, the contractor/SNC will exercise all reasonable
precautions, including the application of transitory and permanent
measures, to control erosion and minimize the deposits in rivers,
creeks, lakes and small lakes.
During the works, the contractor/SNC will exercise all type of
precautions as deemed reasonable to prevent pollution of rivers,
creeks and lakes. The pollutants and noxious wastes will not be
discharged along the rivers, creeks, small lakes or natural or
artificial water channels that flow into them.
In order to protect the cuts of land due to erosion, vegetable
species adapted to the native ecological conditions will be
planted on slopes and fillers.
The contractor/SNC will take all reasonable precautions to prevent
forest fires in any area involved in construction operations or
occupied as a result of such operations. The Contractor/SNC will
cooperate with the corresponding government agencies in the
reporting, prevention and extinction of forest fires.
In the case of any discovery of prehistoric ruino, indian.
settlements or of first settlers, cemeteries, relics, fossil.,
meteorites or other objects of archeological, paleontologic or
special mineralogic Interest during the work., the Contractor/SNC
will take immediate measures to suspend temporarily the works and
will cooperate in the protection, release and transportation of
these findings.
The Contractor/SNC should take the necessary measures to guarantee
to workers and employees, the best conditions of hygiene, housing,
nutrition and health. Personnel should be vaccinated and should



_ 171 -
ANNEX 13
Page 6 of 6
receive prophylactic treatment against epidemics and regional
endemic diseases.
The Contractor/SNC will provide their workmen ear and eye
protectors and dust masks.
The Contractor/SNC will take measures to avoid spilling of
hydrocarbures nearby the work compounds.
The contractors/SNC will prohibit their workmen to lumber trees
and to light fires nearby the roads or the work compounds.
Burning of combustibles will be done under constant supervision of
competent supervisory personnel. Extreme care should be taken in
the manner in which burning of materials takes place, so that it
does not destroy or damage private property or produces excessive
air pollution.
Doe.N1 s Cs WPSI\DOCS\BOL1V&\ANlIfX13.SU
JAUoo.UIlrguorv
09126/10



ENVIRONMENTAL IHPACTS OF MAINTENANCE PROGRAMS
IMPACTS ON TIE FCOSYSTEMS   I_
ACTIViTY                                                                                     _
Landscape   Ceomorpho-   Soil    Hydrology   Vegetation   Fauna   Health   Traffic    Vehicles   Socio-
logy        _    _                                                                        economy
Road Levelling and Crading                                                   _     +                                           +          ++          +
Construction of Channels, Ditches           +       _                             ++                                          ++          ++          +
and Culverts
Embankment Construction                      _            _             _        __+            _           +                   +          +          +
Extraction of Haterials                    _.             _             _        _.+_
Crashing of Materials
Regravellfng                                                                                                                  ++          +4          +
Detour Construction                          _                  _                   _    _       _                             _            _
Asphimt Concrete Removal
Asphalt Concrete Manufacturing                                        =                                    =       =_.
Asphalt Concrete Spreadtng              __                     __ .  .                                                _   ___            ++4
(1)  Positive:                    Negative:
+  low                            -  low
++  moderate                      --  moderate
.44  strong                       ---  strong
(D X
I-.'-
1.)



- 173 -                  Annex 14
Page 173 of 2
BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Supervision Strategy
The project includes a large number of sub-projects: sixty-one of road
periodic maintenance and seventy-seven of bridge maintenance and repair. It
also includes workcompound rehabilitation, equipment rehabilitation, purchases
of complementary equipment, technical assistance, and a comprehensive training
program. Furthermore, the project has to be monitored in the context of a
substantially larger investment program for the 1992-96 period. Experience
under the previous credit shows that the average ten man/weeks per year for
supervision is insufficient to provide effective control over the program.
To reduce the need for IDA manpower, an expanding monitoring and
reporting role will be played by the Borrower through the Project Executing
Unit (UEP) in the National Road Service (SNC). For this purpose UEP will use
a series of quantitative indicators based on the already implemented
management systems, which monitor physical and financial aspects of project
execution, and implementation of the road maintenance programs. SNC will
recruit consultants, to be financed by the Credit, for assistance to the UEP
and supervision of works. The consultants will report each quarter to the
Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC), SNC and IDA. All issues which
will arise will be dealt with in joint meetings between SNC and IDA and during
annual project reviews. During these meetings remedial actions will be agreed
upon.
We intend to have a two-pronged IDA supervision. First, to allow
intensive field supervision we will recruit a local consultant for a period of
about 12 staff-weeks, in stretches of 3 weeks. After each 3-week assignment
he will send to the Bank a report identifying any project issues. This
arrangement will not be too costly, as we expect to pay no more than US$3,000
per month, so the 12 weeks will cost us no more than about 4 weeks of regular
staff. Second, we will provide about 12 staff-weeks of in-house supervisiont
8 staff-weeks of the engineer's time (mainly for procurement and monitoring of
technical assistance tasks and implementation of road maintenance plan) and 4
staff-weeks for the economist (user charges, maintenance financing and
budgeting, evaluation of additional sub-projects, etc.).
In sum, we plan to dedicate about 24 staff-weeks to supervision, but at
a cost which is equivalent to only 16 staff-weeks. Thus, supervision will be
intensive but its cost within reasonable limits. We intend to put a special
effort into a project launch workshop planned for Oct/Nov 1992 to establish
the grounds for project implementation and supervision.
We have also provided for annual project reviews and a mid-term project
review with the participation of SNC, Government (HTC, Ministry of Planning
and Ministry of Finance) and IDA. The issues which will be given priority
are: program of ph;sical implementation of the project, execution of four-
year road maintenance program and updating of five-year investment plan,



- 174 -                   Annex 14
Page 2 of 2
carrying out the decentralization program, restructuring of SNC, and progress
on maintenance planning and budgeting and on the action program.



IBRD 2311
A' °°/BOLIVIA
B R A Z I L   y-                                         SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
l ToPlhutuwo                                       CIVIL WORKS
PROJECT                            ROADS
__o i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAVED ROADS MAIN
To RIo RrnoA                            CuoliuJ  EwoenOc"                                                   GRAVEL ROADS                        SECONDARY
'°RceaN      Guo.o.om oorh                                           S        RIDGES                       --- OTHER
fo   N"bf    ~        rA                                                           WORK CAMPS
q      @CORtJo ~s           ve,°a                      f                                                                  - -  FERRYUNES
\ ,, vStut       C onq   fo e                                                                                              RI/VERS
V      \          .0s EdciloS,   ,                      rif                                                          °       TOWNS
0                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
.Ir                                                                                                                          - (        iNTERNATIONAt BOUNDARIES     f
/ 2  - * , ;4<,onJocquln p,* Apeo    loo   1                                                                                      2 OEIES
Hoots'                          a "do     -- R-            moProDdos    ,                   ,, ,    , 2_RIO                     Ot      R
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lUUo;ucioo                                             '6 Jsof  .o;L. .
to >     S          Ahorciron bM           to
B-as                                       Pd   aeRm,,,tCcdo.
P  E  R,  U /          'iloloi,    c                    sctoc         A                                               'e ia nTa A 7`1.1
AotampcWo~o0.           BocRaAocZ A                                                                                                         L
Po amlf6                                 -   005ud                         OtSJotOti So;                   - U                          .
ES'       SMolIos In huil    ProPorjS Fee,n *°    'Pe V,nlIot\ aoI;ow    SI. nFo?dP,               S_     o Rotoel °
Aal                                    Z7            IP A^Yl  9%t2C    B,y'be,                                 noUAY                              esr)
r-fto&chuorto  .\l. J.                                  P0.105P,,u T,donementoN                                  uo/
A~~~~~~~~~~~~' Mg ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Otai
t---<~~~~~~~~~ A R                                                        A G U5r         A  V <K i Uu)u
I.. Prti t                               \   onoButnGsAlit 2  Embonco   n _      aij     Po,                __ onaga1..     .
RIagOnolo
TeniniOc   or,                                       a            1
Atoft                                                                               BOLIV S.taeaeee f coA'
C   H   I L                                                             RE,                           n;eaToc)t'A
SO1ioOR               Diou~~~~1,1, p O do.oaiM=i;a ucA 2  A~--R.    \AY
r-      I        an~~~~~P. S Iopdatmil cotb
N  *,dtecnri' e.-ot...o of      (ARGENTINA
PatIos                                            RESR~~~~~~~~UAYI 29
......--'.~~~  A    I                          I   N    A]UUUA
005 OoecasAiiot    EniLs,eooAo ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~     FBRURY 99



