Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23327
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-23950)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 58.6 MILLION
TO
BOLIVIA
FOR A
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
December 21, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit - LCC6C
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 6, 2001)
Currency Unit = Bolivianos
Boliviano I = US$ 0.14065
US$ I = 7.1099
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOB          Government of Bolivia
CAF          Andean Development Corporation (Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento)
IDA          International Development Association
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
SAM          Maintenance Management System (Sistema de Administraci6n del Mantenimiento)
SAE          Equipment Management System (Sistema de Administraci6n de Equipos)
SDC          Departmental Roads Agencies (Servicios Departamentales de Caminos)
SINCON       Financial Management and Accounting Informiation System (Sistema de Contabilidad
Integrada)
SNC          National Roads Agency (Servicio Nacional de Caminos)
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:    Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Aurelio Menendez



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                1
2. Principal Performance                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry     1
4. Achievement                                                                 3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                          11
6. Sustainable                                                                 14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                               15
S. Lessons Learned                                                             19
9. Partner Comments                                                            20
10. Additional Information                                                     21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                           23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                           24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                           26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                           29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components           31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                              32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                          33
Annex 8. Borrower's Final Evaluation Report Summary                            34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006180                                       Project Name: RD MAINT
Team Leader: Aurelio Menendez                             TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 21, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: RD MAINT                                       L/C/TFNumber: IDA-23950
Country/Department: BOLIVIA                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector. TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/16/90                                Effective: 09/18/92            12/14/92
Appraisal:  07/1 /91                                  MTR: 01/01/95              01/01/95
Approval:  06/18/92                                Closing: 06/30/98             06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  Republic of Bolivia/National Roads Agency (Servicio Nacional de Caminos)
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                          Shahid Husain
Country Manager:    Isabel M. Guerrero                          Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:      Danny Leipziger                            Graham Smith
Team Leader at ICR:   Aurelio Menendez                          Jose Maria Alonso-Biarge
ICR Primary Author:   Aurelio Menendez
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's overall objective was to enhance the country's capacity to maintain its road assets and
improve the conditions of specific road segments towards reducing transport costs and facilitating trade.
The specific objectives were to: (a) improve road conditions in order to reduce vehicle operating costs,
enhance access to markets and encourage trade development; (b) improve the road maintenance budget



process; (c) improve road maintenance management, planning and operations; (d) improve investment
planning; (e) assure adequate maintenance funding and financial self-sufficiency for the national road
authority (SNC); (f) strengthen the domestic construction industry; and (g) transfer maintenance technology
and organization to the road regional directorates as preemptive actions ahead of an anticipated
decentralization of the administration of the secondary and tertiary networks.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained unchanged during the life of the Project. However, the emphasis given to each
objective shifted in line with changes in the prevailing approaches for road management and the
institutional difficulties brought about by a drastic decentralization process that was implemented to an
extent beyond the design expected at project's appraisal. This process--as explained later--brought havoc
to the executing agency and, in general, to the management of the sector. It was not possible to envision
this sudden and drastic shift at Project's appraisal--which took place under a different governmental
administration--and weakened the possibilities to achieving most of the institutional objectives of the
Project. At Project's end, however, a new reform path and set of strategies had been established, strategies
that if implemented would certainly allow the overhaul of the institutional framework on a strengthened and
sustainable manner. At the time of the preparation of this ICR, the implementation of that path and set of
strategies appear likely as any other possible path would bring a deterioration of the road transport
infrastructure to a level that would have dire consequences to the country's economy, competitiveness, and
social integration.
3.3 Original Comnponents:
The Project consisted of a blend of physical and institutional investments that attempted simultaneously to
rehabilitate key segments of the country's road network and building up the capacity of the sector
institutions to manage and maintain that network. The key segments to be rehabilitated included initially
about 780 km of paved roads and about 765 km of gravel roads, along with 77 bridges. The strengthening
of the sector institutions, on the basis of the force-account model prevalent at the moment, was to be
addressed through a series of technical assistance and training activities in the areas of planning, financing
and supervision, and the upgrading of 58 work compounds, the rehabilitation of equipment, and the
acquisition of goods such as traffic counters or axle-load control scales.
3.4 Revised Components:
The Project components were not revised, but adjustments were made in the amounts allocated to each
category along with the shift in the prevalent model for road maintenance (from force account to
contracting), the country's priorities, and shifts in the institutional framework as a consequence of the
implementation of a drastic decentralization process. Due to those changes, some components of the
project did not show any disbursements while others increased their share in the project substantially (such
as institutional strengthening). Those that were substantially reduced were work compound construction,
equipment, and procurement services. Those that increased their share were rehabilitation activities and
institutional strengthening (by taking over most of the resources initially allocated to contingencies). These
changes effectively reduced the number of project components to three: rehabilitation works, maintenance
activities, and institutional strengthening. Following these changes, Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement
was periodically revised to reallocate the proceeds of the loan as requested by the Borrower.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project predates the introduction of the QAG process at the Bank. The ICR finds the quality at entry
to be satisfactory. The objectives of the project were consistent with the objectives of IDA's strategy for
- 2 -



the country (that recognized that the country required adequate transport infrastructure for promoting
exports and expanding agricultural and industrial development) and Government priorities. The project
design, with a heavy emphasis on institutional strengthening and on road maintenance activities, was
appropriate for a situation that called for a major overhaul of its planning and operational practices.
Environmental safeguards were taken into account and risks were appropriately assessed and incorporated
in project design. Overall, prevailing Bank's experience with similar type of projects and sector work
related to road maintenance strategies was applied. At Project appraisal, this experience emphasized
efficiency improvements through the strengthening of force account activities alongside the intense
oversight of those activities and periodic audits of the government entities. Later, during the
implementation of the Project and considering the evolving institutional framework (affected by the
decentralization of road administration), the Bank re-emphasized improvements in efficiency through the
alternative approach of contract maintenance (as had been proved in other countries). The Borrower
pursued this shift in emphasis under the Project with the incorporation of activities delineated by the
approach of outsourcing maintenance. The design of the Project allowed this shift to take place without the
need of a major restructuring, as the objectives remained the same and the categories were broad enough to
accomodate the new activities.
Despite the various changes in governmental administration during project implementation, the
government's commitment to the Project remained high throughout (albeit the changes did slow down the
pace of project execution). This was possible by the inclusion in the design of the Project of a blend of
institutional actions with physical investments spread over most of the country's departmental regions. In
addition, the project addressed sector issues with significant macroeconomic implications, given the size of
the sector budget in the context of the Bolivian economy, such as the need for optimization of road
expenditures and for increasing the efficiency in the management of the country's road assets.
Given the previous weak institutional performance, the design of the project correctly emphasized actions
to strengthen efficiency and built in specific components to help revamp the planning and implementation
functions of the execution institution. Furthermore, the Project design took into account the lessons of
previous transport projects in the country and incorporated strategies for enhancing the sustainability of the
Project's interventions, including a maintenance component to be fully funded with Government funds and a
major institutional component to build up the institutional capacity to manage road assets. The
maintenance component, however, could have been structured with specific matching conditions (or
tranches) that could have better enforce, and create the incentives for, the achievement of the agreed
maintenance targets.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
The outcomes/objectives of the Project can be grouped under four headings: (a) enhance the institutional
and management framework of the sector by improving the road maintenance and investment planning and
budgeting processes, road maintenance management and operations, and assure adequate maintenance
funding and financial self-sufficiency for the national road authority; (b) improve road conditions in order
to reduce vehicle operating costs, improve access to markets and encourage trade development; (c) build up
the institutional capacity of the regional directorates in road management and maintenance through better
organizational practices; and (d) strengthen the domestic construction industry through the transfer of
up-to-date maintenance technologies and practices. The achievement of these interrelated four group of
outcomes/objectives is detailed below.
-3 -



(a) Enhance the institutional and management framework. Since 1990, with support from multilateral
financial institutions--mainly the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the International Development
Association (IDA) and the Andean Development Corporation (CAF)--the Government of Bolivia (GOB)
attempted to strengthen the institutional capacity to manage and maintain the network, with the
development of maintenance management systems and the provision of technical assistance to specific
areas of the sectoral institutions--mainly the Vice-Ministry of Transport and the National Roads Agency
(SNC). During the initial implementation years, the Project was successful in putting in place the SAM
(the name for the Maintenance Management System) alongside with a SAE (or Equipment Management
System). These systems were implemented at the regional district offices of the SNC and from there the
information was collected at the central level, allowing the SNC management to assess the performance of
each district and the maintenance activities undertaken at each of them. By 1995, monthly reports were
being produced and used for the programming of maintenance activities for the subsequent years.
However, in August 1995, the promulgation of the Administrative Decentralization Law (Law No. 1654),
which became effective for the SNC on January 12, 1996, affected negatively those efforts because by
transferring the entire network to newly created institutions (the Prefecturas) for the nine regions of Bolivia,
human, mechanical (e.g., equipment) and financial resources were spread too thin, reducing the capacity of
the sector institutions to manage the road network and attend road emergencies during the rainy seasons.
(Before the decentralization, the SNC had more than 3,000 employees, of which 2,200 were force-account
workers and the rest administrative and professional staff. All the force-account workers were transferred
to the Prefecturas.)
The decentralization experience weakened the management capacity of the SNC and the morale of its staff.
Internal control, procurement processes, financial management, etcetera, all suffered and with the
debilitation of these functions systematic procedures for contracting, supervision, or monitoring the
activities of the SNC were lost or neglected. (Under these conditions, as further explained later, project
emphasis shifted to redress the deteriorating institutional framework.)
The deteriorating situation led the government that took office in August 1997 to re-centralize the national
network and focus on reinvigorating the national road agency (the SNC). On September 16, 1997, Law
1788 was passed by the Congress and full responsibility for managing and maintaining the national
network was restored to the SNC with an effective date of January 1, 1999. Supreme Decree No. 25134
was approved by the Cabinet in August 1998, establishing a national network of about 10,000 km and
mechanisms to improve the financing of the maintenance of that network, including the establishment of a
maintenance account to be funded with 70% of toll revenues (the other 30% to remain with the
Prefecturas). With these resources and additional contributions from the Treasury, the Government made a
clear--even if still insufficient--commitment to the desirability and need to fund adequately the maintenance
of roads. To this end, the Government has also embarked on outsourcing road maintenance activities,
promoting the development of a private sector industry which can more efficiently undertake the
maintenance activities. (The outsourcing of maintenance activities became necessary also because the
force-account workers remained with the Prefecturas.) These initiatives have constituted a good start to
develop the expertise in Bolivia (acquiring knowledge on maintenance costs and work elements) and as
background for other alternative approaches of incorporating the private sector (such as microenterprises,
performance-based contracts, or--upon careful analysis and on a few segments--maintenance concessions).
In January 2000, in the period of the second extension of the Project's Credit closing date, a stakeholder
analysis process was initiated to develop a strategic plan and the re-organization of the SNC to meet its
newly acquired responsibilities under Supreme Decree 25134. Through strategic planning workshops, a
consensus was achieved within the Government and with key stakeholders (construction and engineering
associations, transporters, etcetera) in transforming the SNC into an organization of high performance,
- 4 -



highly regarded by the Bolivian society, with a mission focusing on user-oriented goals (such as the need to
know, understand and attend the needs of road users, and provide the maintenance of the road network with
attention to service quality and environmental issues). This mandate led to the definition of institutional
objectives and a strategic development plan that allowed to design an organizational structure of the SNC
(approved in the Supreme Decree 26336 of September 29, 2001), with five key principles: (i) strengthening
of human resources; (ii) organization and diffusion of information; (iii) contracting out all the functions
that can be undertaken more efficiently or economically by outside parties; (iv) strict and efficient
supervision of contracts; and (v) strategic planning for management control. The organizational
restructuring plan included a definition of the required skills and assigned responsibilities for each position.
This organizational analysis has allowed the GOB to embark on the specific actions of the institutional
renewal for the National Road Agency (the so-called "institutionalization") and included this entity as one
of the first three for target under the Institutional Reform Project (being the Customs and the Tax
Collection offices the other two). Law No. 2064--for economic reactivation--of April 3, 2000, formalized
the "institutionalization" process, establishing the conditions for the nomination of the (so-called) Executive
President of the SNC and of the four member of a Board of Directors. This nomination was stalled at the
Congress for more than a year, and finally was implemented in early September 2001, about two months
after the closing date of the Project's Credit. The institutionalization is continuing at a good pace, with the
upcoming appointment of the key manager positions. Following this step, the entire cadre of professionals
at the SNC would be reinstalled through civil service rules, under which public competition will be open for
the selection of staff based on technical qualifications. This process has finally removed the political
appointment of key positions and opens up the possibility for stability and better recognition of staff.
The project contributed to the definition and initial implementation of the revamped institutional
framework. The impact achieved by project's end was satisfactory taking into account the conditions three
years earlier, but modest given that the institutional reform was still incipient and taking into consideration
the situation at project's beginning. This is the rating that has been selected. Were the reform further
advanced, the rating for the institutional development impact would have been substantial.
(b) Improve road network conditions. The main national network consists of 10,420 km of roads, with
most of the paved network along the East-West corridor going from La Paz to Santa Cruz (about a third of
the total). From 1991 to 1995, with support from several multilateral financial institutions, the state of the
network started to improve. However, according to recent statistics from the Ministry of Economic
Development and the SNC, upon the approval of the Administrative Decentralization Law that became
effective for the SNC in January 1996 (see more details below), the level of maintenance of the road
network was reduced to a third of the already reduced previous level. Unfortunately, after the
decentralization, statistics on road condition (and other traffic data) have been scant, and it has become
difficult to assess the actual impact of the decentralization process on road conditions. Nevertheless, it is
safe to say that the national network suffered a dangerous deteriorating trend and key sections of the
network are in need of urgent rehabilitation. By May 2000, based on a visual inspection, only about 11 %
of the national network was estimated to be at least in good condition (down from an estimated 15% at
project appraisal), though there was a reduction in the number of kilometers in poor or very poor condition,
almost doubling the number of kilometers in regular condition.
During the "decentralization" period the deterioration of the condition of the network took place in spite of
the existence of budgetary resources. An analysis of the execution of the road maintenance budget by the
main Prefecturas (with jurisdiction over 67% of the network) during the "decentralization" period, shows
deficient levels (see Chart below) of program execution. This ineficiency in the management of the
maintenance budget coupled by the already low levels of that budget (compared to the needs, taking into
- 5 -



account the condition of the network and the traffic on it) compounded to create the deteriorating condition
mentioned in the previous paragraph.
Exodv- Pbned Budge
FNe dq,tnai, 67%6 a; 199 nlad n&Nk
8 1009h   _ .- -  - , z    ' s,     -- --k, zLaPa
7S       L" _       ..,   'S               ..
.9 70%    -   -L
.  Xs _ -    -                            9b 
3DME       '                            ..... Onr
3 A
195    9       1997    19
CdmiaYew
Upon the re-centralization of the national network under the SNC, this institution lacking the human
resource it had before, designed and implemented a program of contracting private enterprises to undertake
the maintenance of the road network. A pilot program initiated under the Project was successful in
providing a testing ground for undertaking road maintenance with private contractors and constituted the
basis for the development of the National Program of Maintenance. This program could not not count with
the same level of resources (for both maintenance activities and for supervision) because of the limitations
in the allocated budgetary resources. Contracts under the National Program of Maintenance have annual
allocations of between US$800 to US$1,500 per kilometer compared to an average of around US$6,000
for the pilot. Because of the limited resources, the National Program of Maintenance has faltered, though it
has constituted a necessary and positive learning experience for continued improvements in the approaches
for the upkeep of road assets in Bolivia (which are being applied under the ongoing Abapo-Camiri Project
and further redesigned under a possible future new Road Rehabiliation and Maintenance Project). In spite
of the difficulties, the condition of the network appears to have improved, albeit only slightly and on the
basis of visual inspections (not actual measured information on the condition of the road infrastructure and
surface). At appraisal, about 11% of the network was in at least regular or good condition. The
percentage of roads in at least good condition increased to about 15% by 1995, but then decreased to about
11% during the "decentralization" period, improving back to 16% by mid-2001, four years after the
recentralization of the national network and with the completion of the Project and other road segments
financed by other intemational donors.
As stated above sustainable resources for maintenance have been limited. The financing of road
maintenance at the national and prefectural level relies on a Road Maintenance Account which was created
in 1998 but that is actually a single account where the collections from the tolls are put before distributing
70% to the SNC and 30% to the Prefecturas. As such, the Account does not constitute more than a bank
account and does not incorporate mechanisms for increasing road users' charges as required by the needs of
the road network or any monitoring procedures to assess the performance in the use of resources. Toll
collection was contracted out by the Prefecturas ahead of the re-centralization of the national network on
terms quite advantageous for the private contractors. The SNC has overtaken the legal resposibility over
those contracts and is in the process of reviewing those contracts for the sake of public interest.
The investment trends show that from 1990 to 1997 the sector institutions have been able to execute an
average of almost US$ 110 million in construction and rehabilitation works and about US$14 million in
maintenance on the national network, with a trend of increasing participation of external sources in the
-6 -



financing the construction and rehabilitation works. These figures appear to reflect an in-grained
management limit to manage road investments. The Project in this respect was a supporting mechanisms to
sustain that level of investment but increases to this level appears limited by the country's fiscal position
and the strong reliance on external sources for the financing of road investments (which in turn is limited by
the country's borrowing indebtness--more recently set by HIPC agreements).
(c) Build-up the institutional capacity of the regional directorates in the management and maintenance of
their networks through transfer of better organizational practices. At appraisal, the Project was expected
to contribute to a decentralization process that envisioned the transfer of the management and maintenance
responsibilities for the secondary roads to road units of the departmental governments (to be built upon the
Regional Development Corporations that existed at that moment). The Project was to provide support in
the establishment of maintenance and equipment management systems (SAM and SAE) for the road
regional units and the training of staff, as well as supporting studies for the definition of their
organizational structure and the corresponding financial and human resources. For political reasons, the
gradual decentralization envisioned at appraisal was trounced by a much more drastic and encompassing
process that included also the transfer of the management and maintenance of national roads to the
Prefecturas, along with the resources previously allocated to the sector (from tolls and the Treasury).
Furthermore, the SNC was to be eliminated as soon as the then existing donnor-financed project were
completed. (The Prefecturas further assumed the payments for counterpart funds of donor-finance credits.)
As network conditions deteriorated and the possibilities to securing additional international funds dwindled
(given the limited capabilities of the new road units), the Government that took over in 1997 proceeded with
the re-centralization of the national network.
Upon the re-centralization of the national network with the SNC, the Servicios Departamentales de
Caminos (SDCs) of the Prefecturas--the substitutes for the regional directorates that existed at Project
appraisal--remained responsible for the secondary network of about 6,000 km and retained the labor and
equipment transferred to them under the decentralization process (though they had to return to the SNC
other equipment such as traffic counters and axle-weight control scales, as well as their powers in the
contracts with the toll collection enterprises). The performance--see chart above--has been poor, key among
them: (a) the deficient planning and management capacity; (b) the lack of resources, as their administrative
costs are high and they have to provide the counterpart financing for the investments undertaken with
external funds; and (c) the tendency to attend requests from municipalities, particularly in respect to the use
of the equipment. Furthermore, the decentralization experience dissociated the SNC from the SDCs (that
to a great extent were built from the previous SNC's district offices) and the relationship became one more
of distrust rather than cooperation (in spite of the fact that the Prefecturas are deconcentrated units of the
central government, and that various decrees still assign to the SDCs the responsibility to collect data on
the national network). As part of the strategic development plan, the need for coordination among the
different levels of government and sector institutions, seeing the feeder (departmental) road network also an
element of the surface transport system, was identified as another important institutional action, and has
become part of the Government strategy for the sector.
At the Prefecturas, maintenance policies are sketchy and mostly carried out by force account. Besides, the
Prefecturas have shown a tendency to use the equipment inherited from the SNC at the time of the
application of the Administrative Decentralization Law, to attend requests from municipalities, which often
do not have the resources and expertise to undertake maintenance on the roads under their jurisdiction.
During Project supervision, a study was undertaken in 1998 to better understand the decentralization
process and the dynamics of the activities of the SDCs and assess their capabilities. The study confirmed
the limited managerial and technical capacity to manage their road assets and the existence of unclear
procedures for budget allocation, execution, and implementation monitoring. The study also highlighted the
- 7 -



weaknesses of the decentralization of road administration as it took place without proper strategies and
actions to (a) create the normative procedures and accountability at the decentralized level, (b) balance
resources with responsibilities, and (c) define a gradual and flexible strengthening process for the
establishment of the necessary management and information systems. Further institutional actions and
incentives must still be developed and implemented for realizing the objective of strengthening the regional
SDCs. This is being pursued as part of the dialogue with the GOB and the preparation of a possible new
operation in the road sector.
(d) Strengthen the domestic construction industry, through the transfer of up-to-date maintenance
technologies and practices. Through the emphasis on road maintenance and rehabilitation and institutional
strengthening, the Project intended to build up the experience of the private construction industry in road
activities. In addition, a study was carried out to assess the capacities of the construction industry. Under
the project, 29 rehabilitation contracts, seven maintenance contracts, and 13 contracts for bridge
rehabilitation were executed. As most of the contracts did not involve amounts greater than US$10 million,
most of them were awarded to domestic firms even if advertised under ICB procedures. Hence the project
contributed to strengthening the capacity of the Bolivian construction industry in upgrading the condition of
the network. This experience has constituted a preamble for further involvement of the private construction
industry in the up-keep of the road infrastructure. The National Routine Maintenance Program initiated in
1999 was built upon the experience of the pilot financed with resources from the Credit. That Program,
albeit with difficulties, has mainstreamed the concept of contracting maintenance with the private sector,
further strengthening its capacity and the efficiency in the sector. This was an objective, not initially
intended at Project appraisal, that has resulted in the positive effect of developing maintenance capacity
with Bolivian private firms. On the other hand, the weak management capacity of the public institutions
did not allow to make better use of the growing capacity of the domestic construction industry. With the
recent efforts to revamp the institutional framework, the country should realize the expected efficiency
improvements that are normally gained from the engagement of the private sector.
In sum, the Project's outcomes show mixed achievements. Though there have been a substantial learning
experience and the condition of the network appears to have improved in overall terms, the still underlying
institutional weakness to manage and finance the improvement and maintenance of the road network and a
shaky ground of maintenance initiatives which are difficult to sustain due to the lack of resources and a
proper users' charges policy render uncertain the achievement of the Project objectives. The history of the
sector during Project implementation illustrates a vicious circle of disinvestment, complaints by the users,
an animosity towards the sector institutions from the general public, and reluctance to contribute to the
needs of the sector. Advancement in the Government strategy of "institutionalization" of the SNC initiated
at the Project's end is a key initial action that attempts to break this circle. Further actions of revamping the
resources for the sector and the inter-institutional cooperation should follow through to establish a
sustainable path.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The project was estimated to cost US$240.0 million at appraisal, including US$131.5 million allocated to
the component of maintenance by force account. The IDA Credit amounted to SDR58.6 million, which at
the time of appraisal was equivalent to US$80 million. At project's end, the actual project cost amounted
to US$272.85 million (mainly because of increases in the amount spent under the maintenance component)
and the IDA Credit increased to US$81.55 million (because of adjustments to the exchange rate between
the SDRs and the US$ over the life of the project).
-8 -



The key physical targets set for the Project were largely reached by the credit's closing date of June 30,
2001, after 9 years of implementation. Out of 781 km of paved roads and 765 km of gravel roads slated for
rehabilitation at appraisal, over 775 km of paved roads (99%) and 557 km of gravel roads (73%) were
completed by project's end. In addition, almost 440 km of roads were subject to major maintenance under
the pilot of maintenance by contract (at a cost of near US$1.4 million). Including the pilot, at project's end,
the amount of kilometers identified at appraisal for interventions under the project was surpassed in about
15%. In terms of the rehabilitation of bridges, 65 were rehabilitated compared to 77 included at project
appraisal (that is, a completion rate of 84%).
The rehabilitation works were undertaken in the nine departments of Bolivia, except Chuquisaca. In this
department, a link--Yamparaez-Tarabuco--was identified at appraisal as one of the links whose
rehabilitation was a priority in the context of the network maintenance plan. The rehabilitation of this link
was not financed with resources from the Credit because works undertaken by the Regional Development
Corporation of Chuquisaca ahead of the procurement process went beyond the scope defined for the
rehabilitation component of the Project. Another link--San Isidro-Mairana, in between the departments of
Cochabamba and Santa Cruz--was declared not eligible because the procurement process did not follow
Bank procedures.
The component on maintenance by force account reached an amount of US$168.9 million by the closing of
the credit, compared to US$131.5 million estimated at appraisal (excluding contingencies). The actual
absolute figure--a 28% above the appraisal estimate--applies however to a period three years longer than
the one estimated at appraisal and includes about US$23.7 million of emergency works handled by the
maintenance unit of the SNC and another US$12.7 million of emergency works handled by the construction
("fiscalization") unit. On the other hand, the figure does not include the possible amounts spent by the
Prefecturas during the "decentralization" period from 1996 to 1998, when the national maintenance
prograrn (by contract) was initiated. With the available (reliable) numbers (and including emergency
works), the average annual amounts dedicated to maintenance are about US$24.1 million, below the
average annual amounts estimated at appraisal of about US$32.9 million. In sum, even if the absolute
amounts represented a substantial budgetary effort to confront the maintenance needs of the network (and
in line with those agreed at appraisal), annual expenditures hovered at around 73% of those established at
appraisal. Furthermore, the amounts taken by emergency activities represented a sizeable amount of total
maintenance expenditures (around 22%), indicating that the lack of proper maintenance may have produced
a forced increase in the resources needed to attend emergency situations, weakening the apparent
accomplishment represented by the total absolute figures.
Other project components related to the acquisition of equipment for axle-load control and traffic counting,
and of road safety barriers, paint for road markings and vertical signalling were completed at around 75%
of the external resources allocated to these components at appraisal. This is consistent with the difficulties
generated by the shaky institutional framework. Most of these goods were acquired and installed ahead of
the drastic decentralization process of 1995 but were transfered to the Prefecturas as part of that process.
The axle-load control equipment and the traffic counters were recuperated by the SNC upon the
recentralization of the national network in 1997.
The components of equipment rehabilitation and work compound construction, were phased out upon the
drastic decentralization that took place in 1995. Later, upon the recentralization of the national network,
the outsourcing of maintenance activities continue to render those components unnecessary. Similarly, the
component related to the contracting of external services for carrying out procurement administration was
phased out as the SNC stepped up its capacity to carry forward procurement supported by the project
coordinating unit.
-9-



On the contrary, the component that showed its resources augmented substantially was the one related to
technical assistance, with the final allocation of the credit proceeds increasing 2.5 times (or about US$4
million) compared to appraisal estimates. The increase was justified by the mounting requirements
generated by the need to revamp the institutional framework during the last three years of project
implementation. Assistance in the definition of road financing mechanisms and users' charges, maintenance
management techniques, institutional development strategies, and the like, to accompany the so-called
"institutionalization" process required the allocation of the additional resources to that component (taken
from the unallocated category).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis of the physical investments yielded a combined rate of return (prorated on the basis
of the cost of each sub-project) of 35.5%. This rate compares with the rate of 39% estimated at appraisal
for similar type of investments. The rate is slightly higher for sub-projects on the paved network (35.9%)
and slightly lower for those on the gravel network (34.4%). These values compared with those of 37% and
45% estimated at appraisal, respectively. The other component evaluated at appraisal was the one for
equipment rehabilitation (with an estimated rate of return of 42%). This component has not been rated
because it was not implemented. Other components were not evaluated because either they were not
completed (case of work compound construction) or are related to institutional development actions for
which benefits are hard to quantify.
In all, the results of the expost economic evaluation show a decrease of about 3.5% of the overall rate of
return. The decrease is higher for the sub-projects on the gravel roads (in about 11%) while it is almost
negligible (1%) for the sub-projects in the paved network. The overall decrease reflects the higher costs of
completing the works and the smaller than expected increase in traffic (which has been affected by smaller
than expected economic growth). The results show the positive contribution of the Project investments to
advance the economic well-being of the country.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project, albeit it may have not achieved fully its institutional impacts, served as an important vehicle
for the discussion of various institutional reform measures and actions. In this respect, it has created the
development impact of transfering knowledge and laying the foundations for positive reforms in the
medium term. From the beginning of project preparation until project closing, issues such as
decentralization, organizational restructuring, users' charges, management systems, programming and
planning capacity, environmental management effectiveness, and internal control and financial management
systems were discussed and developed. A variety of reports, each one building on the experience of the
previous, were produced and some actions taken. The frequent changes in the top management and the
debacle produced by the decentralization process did not allow for a better internalization of the knowledge
generated by the studies and the application of the proposed experiences.
During the last two years of the project, and in light of conditions set to proceed with new lending
operations in the sector, the Government assumed the reform agenda and initiated the so-denominated
"institutionalization" process of the SNC. This process--to be supported with resources from the
Institutional Reform Project--involved the nomination of the Executive President and four members of the
Board of Directors of the SNC as well as of the various managers on the basis of managerial and technical
- 1 0 -



qualifications and for a period that would surpass governmental administrations. This process was
sanctioned into law and after a protracted process was initiated in September 2001, two months after the
Credit closing date. These steps--even if incipient--originate in the efforts undertaken under the Project
(and funded with resources under the category of technical assistance) and as such constitute one of its
most important development impacts. The revamping of the organizational structure however must be
further completed to ensure the availability of the necessary financial resources for the up-keep of road
assets and to establish an effective coordination with other sector entities (including the departamental road
agencies at the Prefecturas) to better articulate the overall functioning of the entire road network and
improving access to poorer regions of the country. In these respects the institutional reform remains an
unfinished agenda and hence the uncertainty of the institutional development impact.
On more specific aspects, the project contributed to strengthen the financial and environmental management
functions of the SNC. On the financial management side, external audit reports showed severe weaknesses
to the financial management control function. In 1998, in view of that assessment, the Project proposed the
hiring of financial experts to redress the shortcomings identified by the external auditors. In addition, as
part of the agreements for the extensions of the closing date for the Credit, the SNC was required to submit
to the World Bank periodic reports on the status of improvements and measures to address the identified
shortcomings. These efforts led to a substantial improvement in the financial management of the SNC.
The external audit report for 2000 still provided an opinion with qualifications, but also highlighted the
substantial improvements in the internal control and financial management functions of the institution. An
information system (SINCON) was put in place with support from the Credit and became operational by
the project's end, allowing the entity to start reporting the status of its financial accounts on a real-time
basis and the appropriate reconcilation of accounts.
On the environmental management side, the entity progressed positively as well after the initial efforts were
thwarted by the decentralization of 1995-1997. By project's end, the unit in charge of environmental
management was raised to the level of deparment and the use of environmental requirements in projects
became commonplace. (This also because of the need to obtain the relevant environmental license from the
Environmental Vice-Ministry of the Ministry of Sustainable Development.) In addition, during project
implementation, an environmental manual was produced and formally published in mid-2000. A major
conference of environmental units of road agencies from Latin American was organized by the SNC and
hosted in Bolivia, with visits to various road projects. All these positive advances were put into practice in
the preparation and initial implementation of the Abapo-Camiri Highway Project (Credit 3235-BO), whose
works were initiated shortly after the completion of the Project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Fiscal and socialfactors. Bolivia's dependence on a few imported and exported raw commodities makes
the country's finances heavily dependent on the price of those international commodities and constrains the
room for maneuvering within the budgetary resources and the targeted fiscal balance. In particular, as it
pertains to the transport sector, the government has shown interest in allocating a surchage on the
consumption of gasoline for financing road maintenance but was limited due to political considerations by
the high price of oil to incorporate that surchage into the consumption price. During the last four years of
project implementation, frequent social upheavals took place in the country and the latent tension further
prevented the application of users' charges policies that could ensure appropriate resources for the sector.
Moreover, the manner by which social protests took place were mostly by blocking roads and, often,
breaking the pavement. These road blocks affected the implementation of the project in its latter years by
- 11 -



delaying the execution of works (as materials could not be transported to work sites or rehabilitation
activities could not be undertaken altogether). Hence, the government had to endure fiscal and social
limitations beyond what could have been expected at project's appraisal. In this respect, they constitute
factors outside its control (though in some respects these factors may have originated as a consequence of
government's own policies and actions).
Furthemore, climatic conditions--in particular the recurrence of the El Ninto phenomena--may have affected
the resources required for the proper upkeep of road assets and may have also affected the completion of
some of the Project's subprojects whose implementation was delayed during the periods of heavy rainfall.
In all, though the final outcomes were largelly achieved, the completion of them in time appears to have
been affected by limitations in financial resources, social upheaval, and harsh weather conditions, beyond
those expected at project appraisal.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Changes in governmental administration. The credit was signed in 1992 with a departing administration.
Project effectiveness took place exactly 5 months after signing of the credit (and about 6 since its approval
by the Board). The final stages of the electoral process and the change-over to the administration that
assumed its responsibilities in August 1992 slowed down the initiation of the Project. It took about a year
and a half for the project to start in earnest. The pace of project implementation accelerated from 1994 to
1995 at which time the enactment and application of the Administrative Decentralization Law that included
the complete decentralization of road administration brought havoc to the sector, and again slowed down
decision-making and disbursements, and negatively affected the institutional development component of the
project. The pace of implementation accelerated again in 1997 but with the advent of a new government
administration in that year, the level of disbursements declined for a period of another year. The new
government pursued several actions to redress the deteriorating situation (by re-centralizing responsibilities
on the national network back to the executing institution). Nevertheless, the functioning of executing
institution had been considerably weakened and affected the pace of implementation. The SNC needed
about another year to retake a satisfactory pace of implementation. All these events required four
extensions of the Credit closing date, for a combined period of three years, so that the SNC could the
Project works.
Decentralization of road administration. An ill-designed road decentralization process, drastically
implemented in 1996, weakened considerable the governmental capacity to manage the road network. Up
to then, management systems had been gradually enhanced to improve the maintenance of the network,
build up the planning and environmental control functions, and increase the efficiency of contracting for
various rehabilitation and construction works. These efforts were then generating positive results in the
general condition of the network and the response capacity of the main institution--the National Road
Agency or SNC (the acronym for its name in Spanish: Servicio Nacional de Caminos). The abrupt
decentralization brought havoc to the sector, undermining the morale of the staff of the SNC, spreading too
thin the limited technical and managerial capacities available in the sector, constraining the flexibility to
attend emergencies, and undoing the mechanisms for the allocation of resources as dictated by objective
programming methodologies. In the process, information was lost. The newly created institutions--the
Servicios Departamentales de Caminos of the Prefecturas (SDCs)--disregarded largely the maintenance
requirements of the national network and, taking the narrower perspective of their internal (departmental)
transport needs rather than a national view, shifted their attention to the secondary and tertiary networks on
the basis of non-economic considerations. The Servicios Departamentales de Caminos, in addition, did
not have (and have not had) the necessary technical skills to address the proper upkeep of all the road
assets under their jurisdiction. At that moment, the SNC remained exclusively as the entity in charge of the
- 12-



execution of donor-financed projects (though even for this activity it had to rely on the resources of the
Prefecturas to cover the counterpart financing for these projects).
In light of the palpable deterioration of the national network, the government that assumed power in August
1997, reversed the course and re-centralized the national network (about 10,000 km) as of January 1, 1999.
The SNC was legally reestablished, inheriting the management of that national network. For this purpose,
the SNC was allocated 70% of the tolls being collected across the network (while the remainder 30% was
given to the Prefecturas) and the right to recover those goods--such as traffic counters and axle-weight
control equipment--which had also been transferred to the SDCs as part of the decentralization process.
The "new" SNC departed with a limited cadre of professionals and the need to outsource the maintenance
of the national network (as the previous maintenance workforce had also been transferred to the
Prefecturas). As much statistical information on traffic and road condition had not been collected during
the "decentralized" period, the SNC also lacked the capacity to re-establish the maintenance management
systems developed at the start of project implementation. In addition, the Government in its attempt to
reduce the fiscal deficit, limited the amount of resources assigned for the operation of the SNC and kept the
allocation from tolls as the only source for the financing of maintenance activities. (Though further
allocations were done on an ad-hoc basis to attend emergency works.) In whole, the conditions since the
"decentralization" period undermined the motivation of staff and instilled non-transparent procurement and
contractual practices.
By December 1999, the Government of Bolivia initiated a renewal process by placing non-political
managers at the helm of the SNC and agreeing with donors on a major institutional restructuring process
and overhaul of that agency, with a shift in its mandate from one heavily loaded in administering its own
workforce to another one that focuses in administering contracts and managing results. The process
included as key elements the definition of a new organizational structure of the SNC to efficiently and
effectively carry out its responsibilities and the appointment of an Executive President, a Board of
Directors, and technical staff on the basis of technical and managerial qualifications, as relevant to each
position. (The process has been supported with resources from the Credit of the Project and from Credit
BO-3245 (Institutional Reform Project). Some of these elements required approval by two-thirds majority
of the Congress, which proved difficult to secure. Its effective implementation was delayed substantially
and only took place shortly after project completion.
In all, the project was affected by unexpected institutional changes and the governmental cycles. With
changes in administration came changes to key managers and often delays in proceeding with the pertinent
bidding or contractual processes. The SNC, being an entity that manages a large part of the governmental
public investment program, is often the subject of intense political influence. Changes to the Executive
Director of the SNC took place in light of the need to build or rebuild political alliances and this occurred
frequently (8 times) during project implementation. Lack of governmental decisiveness in tackling the
increasing difficulties and moving forward with a clear sector strategy allowed the political influences that
drove the overall policy agenda for the sector and negatively affected the capacity of the executing
institution and with it, project implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As expressed before, during project implementation, the functioning of the implementing agency--the
SNC--was often influenced by political actors and interests. This pressure weakened the capacity fo the
SNC to control even those factors that should have been under its own control, such as procurement
administration, contract management, or management of human resources. The decentralization process of
1995 weakened staff morale and the esprit-de-corps that had been present ahead of that process, and along
- 13 -



with the limited amount of resources (for its internal operational budget and for the upkeep of roads)
debilitated the possibilities for addressing project technical and contractual difficulties in a more effective
manner.
A vicious combination of low staff morale, weak management, negative external image, and limited
resources pervaded the functioning of the institution and hampered the SNC to build-up its capacity from
the Project components. With a stronger hand on staff reshuffling and technical performance, the SNC
should have been better able to carry its supervision activities and achieved more efficiently the project
targets. However, in light of the difficulties, the SNC weathered the shake-up caused by the
decentralization and was able to reestablish its activities upon the recentralization of the national network
with the incorporation of novel approaches for outsourcing maintenance activities. More decisive actions
from the Government and less political interference would have helped to revamp the organizational
framework in a shorter period and with it a faster and more effective implementation of the Project,
including its institutional development components.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The expected (financial) cost per km at appraisal amounted to US$54.97 thousand for paved roads and
US$22.83 thousand for gravel roads. These numbers contrast with the actual figures of US$97.66
thousand and US$43.38 thousand, representing increases of 77% and 90%, respectively. (The actual
values include the supervision costs, while the initial values do not.) After adjusting for the supervision
costs, the increases originate largely in the following factors: (a) activities added by local authorities
(municipalities or Prefecturas) that were incorporated to the sub-projects with their own funds (which
decreased the overall paripassu corresponding to the Credit in the rehabilitation components); (b)
adjustments to the original designs and to the appraisal costs to reflect conditions at the beginning of the
bidding process for the rehabilitation sub-projects that were started later in the Project implementation
period; and (c) change orders (often up to 20% of the initial costs) that were approved as the project was
being implemented and as further adjustments had to be incorporated to the contracted designs.
Overall, credit resources related to the rehabilitation component were increased by 34% compared to those
established at appraisal for the achievement of 99% and 73% of the physical targets for the paved and
gravel networks, respectively (without including the pilot of maintenance by contract). That increase is
considered to some extent reasonable taking into account the much longer implementation period, but also
reflects the need for better initial designs and a much better management and stronger enforcement of
contracts.
The credit resources allocated to the technical assistance component were, justifiably, more than doubled in
order to support the analytical requirements mandated by the need to confront the institutional difficulties
that originated with the decentralization of road management in 1995. In light of the deteriorating
institutional framework, the Bank and the Government established the need to overhaul the road agency
and, in agreement with the other international donors (key among them, IDB, CAF and USAID) stepped up
the efforts to revamp the institutional framework. This plan followed with the approval of several requests
to use the credit resources for the hiring of consultants that could provide specific support in areas such as
institutional reform, strategic vision, financing of road maintenance, and internal financial management,
and led to a major effort during the last year-and-a-half of project execution in designing the strategic
framework for the change in the organizational structure of the SNC.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
- 14 -



The progress in the institutional reform and the coalescence of interests and objectives from parties in the
entire political spectrum and from all international donors provide a strong basis for rating the
sustainability as likely. Though the reform process is still incipient, the country could not afford a reversal
in the process, lest the deterioration of the network would further affect transport costs, damaging internal
communication and decreasing the competitiveness of the main export products (that, due to the terms of
trade, have very low commercial margins). A survey of private firms carried out in 2000 showed that poor
transport infrastructure is a major constraint on the growth of Bolivian industries, reducing the reliability of
the supply chains and forcing firms to hold high inventories leveles and reducing their productivity. It is
then expected that civil society and private firms in general will demand the proper functioning of the SNC
and the reform program initiated under the project in order to ensure the adequate management and
maintenance of the road network.
As part of the institutional reform, there remains however the need to increase the allocation of a sufficient
and steady level of resources to the sector in order to keep the road assets in good condition. This element
requires the definition of an efficient and equitable road users' charges policy, including the identification of
new tariffs to complement the current tolls (which represent the only source of revenues allocated to road
maintenance). The users have shown reluctance to additional charges because of the poor condition of the
infrastructure and the perception of weak management at the SNC. The institutional reform process
initiated under the Project attempts to break this vicious circle and enhance the sustainability of the
interventions in the sector.
In sum, the sustainability of the Project objectives faces risks. However, the current impetus in the
institutional reform, backed by majority of stakeholders, and the overall pressure from civil society, provide
sustenance to rating sustainability as likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Towards the end of the Project, several actions were undertaken to address the shortcoming in the
institutional framework. These actions--mostly consisting in defining the conceptual and methodological
underpinnings for the reform of the institution with support from another Bank project--forced the initiation
of a substantial and qualitative change in the functioning of the institution. This change is expected to be
facilitated by the training provided with resources from the Project and the learning that its implementation
has built up in the country (particularly, in the areas of maintenance programming, environmental
management, and financial control). At Project's closing the change was incipient. Nevertheless, the
ground had been established for a substantial transformation of the institution into a modern roads agency,
with a users' orientation and emphasizing efficient and transparent contractual processes. In addition, a
new operation is being prepared to further strengthen the financing of maintenance and the internal control
and project management systems. In all, these expected actions will create an entity capable of managing
the Bolivian national road assets on a sustainable basis.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's contribution to the design and preparation of the Project was well appreciated by the Borrower.
Bank involvement brought into project design the then state-of-the-art knowledge on the rehabilitation and
maintenance of roads and a combination of initiatives that attempted to address the institutional weaknesses
-15 -



identified at appraisal. The project design was carefully crafted based on lessons leamed from past
projects. Special attention was given to the design and establishment of maintenance management
information systems and to the rationalization of the force account pool as a manner of building up the
management and maintenance functions of the institution. In this respect, as part of Project preparation,
the Bank required a realignment of the organizational structure of the SNC to raise the status and emphasis
of the maintenance and environmental management areas of the institution. This was accomplished by
project effectiveness and continue throughout project implementation.
The design of the physical investments of the project was carefully carried out to identify those segments of
the road network for which the interventions will yield the higher economic retum. The result was a series
of investments across the network that have facilitated the integration of the country and reduced transport
costs. These investments were distributed over the various regions and departments of Bolivia, generating
broad support for the Project actitivies.
The design of the Project had the sufficient flexibility to allow the financing of the institutional needs as
implementation progressed and as dictated by the evolving institutional framework. In particular, the
design allowed the support to the establishment of a program of maintenance by contract, even if the initial
design was geared to the strengthening of the force account activities. Furthermore, the design of a
comprehensive technical assistance plan provided the scope for supporting the institutional development
plan of the last three years of Project implementation.
A design aspect that, in retrospect, would have required a different approach was that related to the
condition of spending a certain annual level of maintenance resources as part of counterpart funding under
the Project. Though by Project end the total amount of resources allocated to maintenance activities
surpassed those agreed at appraisal, the manner these resources were spent and allocated could not be
easily tracked down as they were initially spent with force account activities and were later absorbed in
substantial amounts by emergencies. Stricter procedures and performance (or output-based) indicators for
evaluating compliance with maintenance practices would have allowed the SNC to establish and follow a
clearer set of maintenance strategies and interventions and the Bank to better supervise the achievement of
maintenance objectives, not necessarily to be measured by expenditure levels. It must be mentioned
however that the initial design of the project counted with the participation of the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) in its financing and included credit funds for the financing of maintenance
expenditures, establishing a matching requirement for the execution of that component. After appraisal, the
IDB retired from the project and even if the amount of IDA resources were increased to compensate for the
absence of IDB resources, they were not enough to establish that matching arrangement. With it a stricter
approach to the design of the force-account maintenance component could not be created.
7.2 Supervision:
Up to 1995, project supervision moved adequately with special attention given to procurement and the
execution of works, albeit with some delays due to changes at the helm of the executing institution and of
the staff at the project coordinating unit. The unexpected--and hard to anticipate, at least in its speed and
scope--decentralization of road administration created difficulties for continuing adequately with the
supervision of the project components. The focus of supervision activities shifted with the new
circumstances to make rearrangements to project activities and to emphasize the institutional reform as a
manner of revamping the efforts initiated since the beginning of the project. The Borrower highly
appreciated the Bank's advice during the interim "decentralization" period to mitigate the adverse impacts
of the dismantling of the maintenance systems on the national network and, later, in 1997, with the
"recentralization" of the national network back to the SNC--but without the force account pool--the
- 16 -



recommendations to establish alternative methods for road maintenance and, much later, to define and
implement the strategies for the institutional reform of the executing agency. The "recentralization" took
place largely as a consequence of the palpable deterioration of road conditions, but also because of the
Bank advice during supervision mission and the requirements for proceeding with possible new operations
(as new lending to the Prefecturas could not have taken place in light of their managerial weaknesses).
Bank interventions during Project implementation helped make substantial, albeit zigzagging, progress in
the strengthening of key functions such as maintenance management, maintenance financing, environmental
supervision, financial management and internal control. The Bank interventions were supported by the
local office, where specialists in financial management, procurement and environmental issues were present
at various junctures during the last three years of project implementation. By Project end, the concepts
associated with the above-mentioned functions had been internalized within the executing institution and
have set the foundations for its current institutional reform. As reflected in its assessment of the Project,
the Borrower esteemed the Bank's support in strengthening those functions.
The circumstances created by the unexpected decentralization process that took place three years into
project implementation forced a redefinition of the supervision approach and a much greater effort of
coordination with other instances in the Government (particularly, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
Economic Development, and towards Project end, the Office of the Vice-President). In this endeavor, the
role of the Bank country office (in the context of the Comprehensive Development Framework since 1999)
was inestimable as it allowed a continuous and closer exchange of views with the Government
counterparts. The Bank also pursued a continuous coordination with other international donors
(particularly, the IDB and the CAF) in the definition of sector policy recommendations and the institutional
reform process.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall rating for Bank performace is satisfactory. Focusing on redressing the difficulties generated by
an ever-evolving institutional framework while continuing with supervision of the execution of the project
works allowed the Project to be completed with the achievement of most of its targets albeit with delays.
The Borrower's own positive appreciation of the Bank's contribution to advance the sector policies and
Project implementation provides further endorsement to this rating.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The preparation of the Project counted with the full involvement and commitment of the Borrower. The
Borrower provided the information necessary to prepare the Project and contributed to the definition of the
policy-related actions incorporated into project design. Furthermore, the Borrower moved ahead of Project
approval with the preparation of the procurement documentation and the reorganization of its
organizational structure to better attend the maintenance practices to be implemented under the Project. It
also strengthened its environmental unit within a reasonable time, allowing compliance with effectiveness In
all the Borrower performed satisfactorily during project preparation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's lack of decisiveness in sectoral policies, on one hand, and ill-defined actions such as
frequent changes of the head of the implementing agency or the drastic road decentralization, on the other,
affected negatively Project implementation and the faster and full achievement of its institutional objectives.
During the "decentralization" period, the support given by the Government to the implementing entity and
- 17-



to the implementation of the project was halfhearted at best and often involved intromission in the daily
activities of the SNC. Later, the lack of decisiveness was redressed partially at two junctures, one at the
time of the recentralization of the national network and another at project's end with the effective initiation
of the institutional reform process. However, there remain actions to adequately fund the operational needs
of the SNC, to adequately carry out its responsibilities of managing the national road network, and the
maintenance requirements of that network.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Under the pressure exerted by the Government over its activities and by the frequent changes to its
management, and with the impact generated by the road decentralization process, the SNC attempted to
weather those effects by trying to continue with the implementation of the various projets. Debilitated by
low staff morale and limited resources to carry its functions, the entity lacked the enthusiasm to confront
the inevitable difficulties associated with the implementation of a large number of contracts scattered over
the large territory of Bolivia. In spite of these conditions, however, the SNC moved forward with the
implementation of the project components, achieving most of its results and disbursing the credit resources
almost in their entirety (except for US$0.30 million, out of US$81.85 million).
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The combined performance of the Borrower is rated as marginally satisfactory. This rating is assessed on
the basis of the following aspects:
3   a (marginally) satisfactory record in executing the physical investments (rehabilitation of roads and
bridges) and moving ahead with the program of maintenance by contract, fulfilling most of the
investment targets agreed upon at appraisal, though they were achieved over a longer period of time
and at higher cost;
3 a (marginally) satisfactory record in carrying out the institutional actions in line with the plan agreed
upon at appraisal, and later with the strategic plan that was required to redress the institutional
shortcomings that largely had stemmed from the ill-fated road decentralization. The shaky institutional
framework and the frequent changes in managers and staff at the SNC, did not allow the implementing
agency (and the Government at large) to take stock of the studies and findings and of the experience
gained in the implementation of the physical investments. This hamper the possibility of transforming
the SNC into a learning organization, into one that could have take advantage of the experience gained
with the implementation of the project to bring forward the necessary changes for the application of the
findings;
*   an unsatisfactory record in establishing and sustaining a supportive policy and institutional
environrnent that would have allowed to strengthen a sector that is critical to the facilitating of
economic activities and trade in Bolivia. The Governnent hardly showed a willingness to establish a
technical institution, without political interference and with transparent and efficient procurement and
contractual processes, adequately funded and with the resources to carry out its responsibilities in
managing the road network;
*   a satisfactory record, albeit rather late in the Project cycle, in redressing the institutional franework at
two junctures during project implementation, one at the time of recentralizing the national network in
1999 and another in initiating the institutional reform process (the so-called "institutionalization")
towards the end of project implementation. These actions--supported by the approval of the pertinent
- 18-



legislation--are the ones that render some likelihood that the efforts undertaken under the project will be
sustained and help establish an agency that can enhance the condition and the serviceability of road
transport in Bolivia.
8. Lessons Learned
The project, having spanned over a long implementation period, has shown the problems often cited in other
projects related to the interference of political cycles in project implementation as a consequence of the
reshuffling of staff and the review of strategies and actions by each new incoming administration. In the
case of the Second Road Maintenance Project, in addition, the ill-conceived decentralization of the national
road network further compounded the difficulties. In all, these aspects require the design and application of
strategies that allow to shield from political interference the operational aspects of the implementation of
projects. This can be achieved--as reported elsewhere--by having a roads agency that operates on the basis
of efficiency benchmarks and with technical personnel that is motivated by performance incentives. The
Project--through its institutional strengthening component--supported the design and the initiation of such a
change process, but this is one that needs to be intemalized by the Government and requires time. As the
process is incipient, its full application and sustainability remains uncertain.
Lessons learned from the project are the following:
(a) Structure (in this case, the Decentralization Administrative Law as it pertained to road
administration) without a strategy (on how to implement the structure) the hardly produces the intended
results. The experience of the decentralization of road administration in Bolivia shows that the lack of a
clear and comprehensive strategy led to a faulty situation. The drastic process of decentralization did not
count with capable institutions that could assume the responsibilities over the national network, neither
could they manage and finance the maintenance of that network. Furthermore, the local and political
interests over that national network at the departmental level do not necessarily coincide with the national
priorities and even if the Prefecturas are administrative branches of the national government, the
enforcement of specific annual programs proved too difficult to carry out in light of the myriad of
competing needs at the departmental and local levels. This took place also because of the imbalance
between the resources transferred to the Prefecturas and the allocation of the resources to those competing
needs. The result was that the road sector was not properly financed at the departmental level, and the
competing priorities at that level could not match the maintenance needs of the national network. The main
driver--political--overpowered the more pressing need of improving efficiency (particularly, allocative
efficiency) and the relegation of the latter affected negatively the condition of the network.
(b) Strategies require comprehensiveness in their approach. Without a sustained strategy for the financing
of road maintenance, the effect of physical investments is short-lived. Patchwork adjustments without their
insertion into a comprehensive strategy does not provide sustained developments. In the case of the project,
the absence of a financing strategy derailed one of the key objectives of the project: the establishment of a
sustainable approach for the maintenance of roads assets. At the beginning of the project, maintenance was
performed by force-account, and the intention was to try to create the financing mechanism that would
ensure the resources to carry the necessary maintenance. When the force account system broke down with
the decentralization of the road administration, without an alternative in place, havoc was created into the
system. The project tried to steer the course by financing a pilot of maintenance by contract, but the
ensuing maintenance contracts--albeit they provided the learning ground for further actions ahead--did not
have the same level of financing and lacked the adequate supervision. In all, the maintenance strategy
though well intentioned, did not work adequately because a key element of that strategy--the financing--was
not yet in place.
-19-



(c) Incentives for institutional reform must be establishedfrom the outset or built into specific progress
steps within a project implementation timetable. The project has shown that unless upfront conditions for
institutional reform are established, the most difficult policies are hardly implemented (case of road
financing) or others (entity reform to establish appointment of technically qualified staff and transparent
procedurs) will endure a protracted or at best zigzagging process. When the implementing agency does not
have the adequate "systems" in place, the effectiveness of its actions is debilitated and non-technical
practices are encouraged. However, without political leverage, it becomes difficult to undertake reforms.
The implementation of mechanisms to open information to society can help increase public demand for
more effective institutions, thus improving govemance and economic outcomes.
(d) Engineering/procurement aspects. Procurement must take place inmediately after the completion of
designs, and designs must be complete, to avoid the frequent situation of recurring to change orders to
adjust to changes in the conditions of the project area. Furthermore, there is a need to better tailor project
implementation to the climatic conditions of the area where the project is located, conditions that must be
seen as normal and not as extraordinary events. Stronger wording must be incorporated into contracts to
ensure that delays due to recurrent rainfall or other climatic events is not used by contractors to extend
activities beyond what is exclusively due to other possible unforeseen events. In Bolivia, this has been a
frequent problem and projects are often extended over long periods of time with the justification of delays
caused by a rainy season that takes place under often similar conditions every year.
A further lesson that falls outside the project design but that can be observed from the analysis of the
project investments and the growth of the economy of the country is the critical role of transport and the
related investments as a countercyclical mechanism for economic growth. Reduction of investments in
transport infrastructure below the levels necessary to maintain the stock value of road assets can affect
negatively economic growth. It appears that the slowdown in the execution of road projects caused by the
decentralization of road administration affected the level of investment in a sector that represented up to a
third of the public investment program. Furthermore, this is a sector that facilitates the communications
among the regions of Bolivia and without proper maintenance transport costs and time can be negatively
affected. In this respect, Bolivia has shown high levels of inventories for inputs and outputs largely
because of the lack of reliability of its transport infrastructure. Overall this effects appear to have had an
effect in the slowdown in the Bolivian economy at the end of the 1 990s and beginning of the 2000s,
precisely when investment in roads could have served as a countercyclical strategy to generate investments
and employment and increase aggregate demand, and in addition have improved the condition of the road
network.
Finally, as a general lesson, there is a need to strenghthen the mechanisms for the intemalization of
knowledge into implementing institutions, so that the substantial institutional efforts undertaken under a
project like the Second Road Maintenance Project and generated by the technical assistance components are
built into the knowledge of the agency for action and further development. This is an area that requires
further thinking and its application goes beyond the transport sector and involves the broader development
agenda, but it is nevertheless an aspect that requires further consideration in the specific attempt of
strengthening road agencies.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Annex 8 includes an excerpt of the report sent by the SNC summarizing the execution of the Project and
- 20 -



the lessons leamed from it. In the report, the borrower highlights the importance of the Project in
upgrading the capacity of the leading sector institution in programming and managing the maintenance of
the road network and in helping restore the condition of key segments of the national network. The report
summarizes the history of the Project and the difficulties encountered due to institutional reforns (mainly,
the Administrative Decentralization Law), frequent staff reshuffling, social unrest, and extreme weather
conditions, and how they contributed to delays in the implementation of the Project and required the various
extensions to the Credit closing date.
On the project's importance to upgrade the capacity of the sector institutions, the borrower highlights three
key elements: (a) the maintenance pilot; (b) the technical assistance activities; and (c) satisfactory
performance of Bank supervision which allowed frequent exchange of views on sector issues and strategies.
The maintenance pilot allowed the country to experiment with a new modality of undertaking maintenance
(that before the pilot was entirely based on force-account) and expand the experience (albeit with much
more limited resources) to 90% of the national network. The national program encountered its own
difficulties--the most critical one being the lack of resources--but is being continuously revised and
improved. On the technical assistance activities, the borrower highlights the implementation of the
maintenance management systems (SAM, in the Spanish acronym) and the set of activities related to the
institutional reform process that was carried forward towards the end of the project (and that included
studies on road user charges and the reorganization of the SNC) as key to establish a solid ground for the
sustainable functioning of the sector and to allow the timely preservation of road assets in Bolivia.
Regarding the performance of the Bank, the Borrower appreciates the coordination with the SNC, the
recommendations on technical specifications (particularly those related to road safety), and the attendance
to the evolving institutional framework and support to the emerging needs in critical areas such as financial
management and control, environmental management, and the "institutionalization" (reform process) of the
SNC.
On the physical aspects of the project, the Borrower's report highlights the fact that most targets were
achieved or surpassed in terms of number of kilometers rehabilitated and actual resources spent in US$. It
is however highlighted that most projects were completed at costs higher than those contracted and with
completion dates beyond those also expected at contract signature. The first are blamed on the own delays
in the awarding of contract which made projects to start on the basis of designs that often were outdated
and did not reflect the actual condition of the road segments, recommending a speedier tendering process
and contract award and more precise designs. For the latter, the blame is put on the reshuffling of staff and
the lack of resources to provide a continuous and adequate supervision of project, for which the Borrower
recommends an improved and also speedier process of payments for works completed and, in some cases, a
speedier process of counterpart disbursements (that apparently in some cases was delayed because these
payments come from the decentralized Prefectura units which sometimes require further paperwork before
processing those payments).
In all, the Borrower concludes by stating that the project has been of great benefit to the country, as shown
by the economic evaluation of the physical projects, helping arrest the deterioration of a network that is so
critical for the economic development of Bolivia. Though the institutional improvements are seen as highly
positive, the Borrower expresses the uncertainty that remains because of the lack of an appropriate
allocation of resources to the sector.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 21 -



10. Additional Information
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
(a) 781 kn of paved roads rehabilitated   833 km of paved roads rehabilitated       775 km of paved roads rehabilitated and 438 km
of paved roads subject to periodic maintenance
under the pilo of maintenance by contract
(b) 765 km of gravel roads rehabilitated  679 km of gravel roads rehabilitated      556 mn of gravel roads rehabilitated
(c) 77 bridges rehabilitated              64 bridges rehabilitated                  65 roads rehabilitated
(d) sustainable mechanism for financing road    designed but not yet operational   same as last PSR
maintenance established
(e) introduction of effective and systematic  yes, through effectiveness remains low  same as last PSR
maintenance practices
-23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate:      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component               US$ million    US$ million         _
Road Rehablitation (Paved Roads)                       45.40            67.96             150
Road Rehabilitation (Gravel Roads)                      18.70           19.89             106
Bridge Maintenance                                      3.50             3.30             93
Work Compound Construction                              3.50             2.11             60
Maintenance by Force Account                          131.50           168.95             100
Equipment                                               4.90             1.00             20
Road Safety Program                                      1.60            1.00             63
Institutional Strengthening                             2.60             8.63            330
Procurement Services                                     3.00            0.01              0
Total Baseline Cost                                   214.70           272.85
Physical Contingencies                                 7.00
Price Contingencies                                    18.30
Total Project Costs              240.00          272.85
Total Financing Required              240.00           272.85
Note: The actual amount for the component on routine maintenance by force account reflects the amount spent on
maintenance during the period of Project implementation, which was three years longer than the one established at
appraisal. The amount also reflects activities undertaken through maintenance contracts (in the period 1999-2001)
when the national network was recentralized and the SNC did not have any force-account employees. It also
reflects some periodic and emergency activities that were included as part of the maintenance contracts. It does not
include however the maintenance activites undertaken by the Prefecturas on the networks that remained under
their jurisdiction upon the recentralization of the national network.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category  ICB  Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       ICB            NCB          Other 2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      52.70          31.70          0.00         134.60        219.00
(42.50)       (25.10)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (67.60)
2. Goods                       6.40           0.00          1.00          5.60          13.00
(4.60)        (0.00)        (0.80)         (0.00)       (5.40)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00          8.00          0.00          8.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (7.00)        (0.00)        (7.00)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       59.10         31.70          9.00          140.20       240.00
(47.10)       (25.10)        (7.80)        (0.00)        (80.00)
- 24 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category         [CB         Procurement Method              N.BF.        Total Cost
NCB           OtherN
1. Works                         70.06          21.42           1.73         168.95         262.16
(55.84)        (17.27)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (73.11)
2. Goods                         2.00            0.00          0.00           0.00           2.00
(1.77)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.77)
3. Services                      3.67            1.15           3.87          0.00           8.69
(3.25)         (1.00)         (2.42)         (0.00)        (6.67)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         75.73          22.57           5.60          168.95        272.85
(60.86)        (18.27)        (2.42)         (0.00)        (81.55)
See note at the bottom of first table.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Road Rehabilitation (Paved   36.40  9.00       0.00      53.00      14.96     0.00    145.6  166.2   0.0
Roads)
Road Rehabilitation       15.00     3.70       0.00      15.88      4.01      0.00    105.9  108.4   0.0
(Gravel Roads)
Bridge Rehabilitation     2.80      0.70       0.00      2.76       0.54      0.00     98.6   77.1   0.0
Work Compound             2.50       1.00      0.00      1.48       0.63      0.00     59.2   63.0   0.0
Construction
Maintenance by Force      0.00      131.50     0.00      0.00      168.95     0.00      0.0   128.5   0.0
Account
Equipment                 3.40      1.50       0.00      1.00       0.00      0.00     29.4   0.0    0.0
Road Safety               1.10      0.50       0.00      0.78       0.23      0.00     70.9   46.0   0.0
Technical Assistance      2.60      0.00       0.00      6.59       2.05      0.00    253.5   0.0    0.0
Procurement Services      3.00      0.00       0.00      0.08       0.00      0.00      2.7    0.0    0.0
Contingencies            13.20      12.10      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.0    0.0    0.0
See note at the bottom of first table.
- 25 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
An ex-post economic analysis of the key physical investments of the project has been undertaken and the
results compared to those obtained at appraisal. The methodology applied in this analysis has followed the
standard calculation of the benefits derived from the savings in vehicle operating costs over a period of 20
years and the substraction from those benefits of the costs of the rehabilitation works and the ensuing
maintenance costs over the same period of time. For the ex-post evaluation the actual values for the
rehabilitation costs of each sub-project and the actual traffic since the completion of the works have been
incorporated into the analysis using the HDM model. The traffic values were based on actual statistics
from 1998 and in those cases where the sub-project was completed afterward by extrapolating the 1998
values to the date of sub-project completion (with the necessary adjustments based on other knowledge of
traffic volumes on that road or on adjacent roads).
The following table shows the results of the evaluation for each one of the sub-projects rehabilitated under
the Project. This physical investments represent 100% of the total actual investment costs of the
rehabilitation sub-projects and about 85% of the credit resources and of the Project costs (excluding the
routine maintenance program and those additional costs that may have been added to particular
sub-projects by the regional departments complementing those provided under the Project). Further details
on the input values to carry out the economic analysis can be found in the Borrower's report on the
evaluation of the project ("Informe Ejecutivo de Cierre y Evaluacion Expost, Noviembre 2001").
- 26 -



Results of Ex-post Economic Evaluation
Second Road Maintenance Project
Credit 2395-BO
Sub-Project                                                  Actual         Actual
Road Segment                                               Cost           Cost        Cost/Km      Base       ADT        N PV      E RR
Length        USS            USS         US$/km      Year       Base      Million      %
Km         Works       Supervision                                        US$
Gravel Roads                                      556.79                                                                      38.80
Ing. Mora-San Joaquin                            12.00                                 43,882.00   1994         277.00       1.65    >50%
Madrecitas-San Nicolas                           16.00    1,665,898.48    133,271.88    43,882.20   1994        316.00       1.61    42.50
Okinawa-Puerto Banegas                           13.00                                 43,882.00   1994         437.00       1.52    45.00
Ivirgarzama-Puerto Villaroel                    26.41      497,890.46     39,831.24    20,368.25   1996         353.00      0.36    17.90
La Palizada-Puente Taperas                      43.80    1,501,841.78    120,147.34    37,031.72   1995         142.00      2.62    29.10
Huarina-Achacachi                                19.90                                 78,871.75   1995         193.00      9.51    >50%
Achacachi-Escoma                                 54.00    2,574,734.20    283,433.50    21,184.49   1995        193.00       0.93    20.60
El Alto-Chacaltaya                                7.201                                20,091.28   1995         108.00      0.08    20.10
Pojo-San Isidro (')                             87.00    1,629,114.24    338,260.36    22,613.50   1995         123.00       1.74    23.70
Cobija-Porvenir                                  28.37    3,150,674.74    252,053.98   199,941.09   1997        451.00      13.30    >50%
Yapacani-Colonia San Juan                        13.70    1,074,246.51     85,939.72    32,681.30   1996        326.00       1.09    42.70
Texas-Candelaria                                 21.80     ._                           32,681.30   1996        147.00       0.63    21 .70
Mataral-Vallegrande                             53.20    3,869,883.85    309,590.71    35,627.60   1996         101.00      0.91     18.80
Cruce Ruta 4-Ouirusillas                        64.11,                                 35,627.60   1996          98.00       1.22    19.60
Puerto Suarez-EI Carmen                          96.30    4,357,727.17    348,618.17,  45,251.58   2000         100.00       1.63    17.80
Paved Roads                                       775.10                                                                     268.64
El Alto - Viacha                                21.21    1,548,267.76    123,861.42    78,836.83   1994        1,209.00      4.33    32.80
La Paz - Cotapata                               43.50    1,312,827.62    105,026.21    32,594.34   1994         743.00       5.41    39.10
Warnes-Montero                                   19.60    1,991,595.34    159,327.63   109,740.97   1995      3,107.00     48.92    >50%
Taruma-La Guardia                                35.55     817,653.72      65,412.30    24,840.10   1994       1,471.00     32.22    >50%
Oruro-Vinto-Machacamarca                         30.89    1,421,538.01    121,920.09    49,966.27   1995        531.00       6.13    49.40
Mairana-San Isidro                              86.00    1,424,824.45                   38,402.71   1995        107.00       1.62    17.90
Quillacollo-Confital (Tramo: Llavini - Confital)  55.00    5,997,534.24    344,140.50   115,303.18   1995      1,292.00      5.24    18.10
Tomatas-Tarija-Padcaya                           49.20    1,741,107.40    139,288.59    38,219.43   1995        611.00      17.85    >50%
Huarina - Tiquina                               38.00    2,056,945.78    557,915.39    68,812.14   1996         573.00      12.08    40.70
Machacamarca - Paznia                           48.83    5,076,072.00    472,860.06   112,760.25   1995         209.00      17.23    42.20
Cochabamba-Paracaya                             29.20    1,415,751.03      80,000.00    42,300.65   1996       1,948.00      5.26    22.80
Guabira-Mineros-Chane                           41.35    4,987,843.07    287,949.36   127,588.69   1995        1,182.00     45.34    >50%
Guabira-Okinawa                                 42.01    5,592,112.11    292,545.41   140,077.54   1995         682.00      23.22    45.30
Oruro-Paria-Caihuasi                            36.28    4,739, 752.48    543,986.74   145,959.65   1997        164.00       4.37    22.90
Paznia - Challapata                             35.40    6,827,493.25    608,506.89   210,056.50   1997         374.00      23.46    42.80
Quillacollo-Km63                                47.98    7,772,488.72    300,215.67   168,251.45   1998       2,278.00       1.35    13.40
Machacamarquita-Huanuni                         22.30    4,418,320.79    353,465.66   213,981.45   1999         345.00      11.69    38.40
Chimore-Ichilo                                  92.80    9,541,710.35    872,501.52,  112,222.11   1999       2,963.00       2.92    15.00
The following table shows the summnary results of the evaluation. The economic analysis of the physical
investments yielded a combined rate of return (prorated on the basis of the cost of each sub-project) of
35.5%. This rates compared with the rate of 39% estimated at appraisal for similar type of investments.
The rate is slightly higher for sub-projects on the paved network (35.9%) and slightly lower for those on the
gravel network (34.4%). These values compared with those of 37% and 45% estimated at appraisal,
respectively. The other component evaluated at appraisal was the one for equipment rehabilitation (with an
estimated rate of return of 42%). This component has not been rated because it was not implemented.
- 27 -



Summary Ex-post Economic Evaluation
Units      Gravel Roads   Paved Roads        Total
Length of roads                                          km                556.79         775.10        1,331.89
No. of segments                                          no.                15.00          19.00          34.00
Financial costs                                     Thousand US$         24,154.34      75,698.83      99,853.16
Financial costs per km                             Thousand US$/km          43.38          97.66          74.97
Average Net Present Value (Pro-rated)               Thousand US$             4.75           13.66          11.50
Economic Rate of Return (Pro-rated)                      %                  34.38          35.90          35.54
Total Net Present Value (Sum)                       Thousand US$            38.80          268.64        3C 7.44
Net Present Value in 1994 USS                       Thousand US$            31.71          232.55        264.27
The expected (financial) cost per km at appraisal amounted to US$54.97 thousand for paved roads and
US$22.83 thousand for gravel roads. These numbers contrast with the actual figures of US$97.66
thousand and US$43.38 thousand, representing increases of 77% and 90%, respectively. (The actual
values include the supervision costs.) After adjusting for the supervision costs, the increases represent, in
some part, the added activities the regions incorporated to the sub-projects with their own funds; in another
part, the changes in the designs at the time of appraisal to reflect conditions at the beginning of the bidding
process for the various rehabilitation sub-projects; and in another part (often, up to 20% of the initial cost),
change orders that were approved as the project was implemented and adjustements had to incorporate to
the initial designs.
In all, the results of the expost economic evaluation show a decrease in about 3.5% of the overall rate of
return. The decrease is higher for the sub-projects on the gravel roads (in about 10%) while it is almost
negligible (1%) for the sub-projects in the paved network. The overall decrease reflects the higher costs of
completing the works and the smaller than expected increase in traffic (which has been affected by smaller
than expected economic growth). Nevertheless, the results show the positive contribution of the Project
investments to advance the economic well-being of the country.
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count          Specialty                     Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/1989                    1   HWY ENGR                         S            S
09/1990                    1   HWY ENGR                          S            S
AppraisatUNegotiation
04/1991                    2   HWY ENGRS                         S            S
06/1991                    2   HWY ENGRS                         S            S
Supervision
12/1992                    2  TRNS ECON, TRNS ENGR              HS           HS
07/1993                    1  TRNS ECON                         HS           HS
12/1993                    2   TRNS ECON, HWY ENGR              HS           HS
03/1994                    2  TRNS ECON, HWY ENGR                S            S
09/1994                    1  TRNS ECON                          S            S
01/1995                    3  FIN MGMT, TRNS ECON,               S            S
HWY ENGR
11/1995                    5  TRNS SPEC, TRNS ECON,              S            S
INSTIT SPEC, ENVIRON
ECON, HDM/INV PROG SPEC
03/1996                    3  PROJ OFFICER, TRNS ECON,           S            S
LEGL
09/1996                    1  TRNS ECON                          U            S
05/1997                    2  TRNS ECON, PROJ OFFICER           U             S
10/1997                    2  HWY ENGR, PROJ OFFICER            U             S
02/1998                    3  HWY ENGR, PROJ OFFICER,            U            S
TRNS ECON
06/1998                    4  HWY ENGR, TRNS ECON,               U            S
PROJ OFFICER, FIN MGMT
03/1999                    1  HWY ENGR                           S            S
01/2000                    5  TRNS ECON, HWY ENGR,               S            S
INST DEVL SPEC, FIN MGMT
SPEC, ENVIRON SPEC
10/2000                    6  TRNS ECON, ENGR,                   S            S
ENVIRON SPEC, FIN MGMT
SPEC, OPPORT PILAR
ICR
03/2001                    7   TRNS ECON, FIN MGMT               S            S
SPEC, PROC SPEC,
SECTOR LEADER,
ENVIRN SPEC, ENGR,
INST SPEC
(b) Staff:
- 29 -



Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 32.0                          60.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                      27.5                          69.8
Supervision                               162.5                         353.4
ICR                                         7.0                          24.1
Total                                     229.0                         507.4
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
0 Macropolicies                          OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Z Sector Policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
3 Physical                               OH  *SUOM  O N  O NA
N Financial                              OH  OSUOM  O N  O NA
X Institutional Development              Q H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
X Environmental                          0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
Social
LI Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Gender                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
C0 Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
2 Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
X Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Fi Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
X Lending                                         OHS OS  OU  OHU
F Supervision                                     OHS OS   O u  O HU
9 Overall                                         OHS   S s  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
 Preparation                                     OHS OS   O U  O HU
X Government implementation performance           O HS O S  * U  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance               O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
Z Overall                                         OHS     0 s  O u  O HU
Considering the ultimate outcome of the project, the Borrower performance has been rated satisfactory.
However, during Project implementation, the Government's policies for the road sector have been unclear
and, often, damaging for the institutional capacity to manage the country's road assets. In this respect, even
if at project's end, different actions appear to show a commitment for advancing the institutional reform in
the right direction, the Government implementation performance over the entire period has been rated as
unsatisfactory.
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Servicio Nacional de Caminos, November 2001, "Informe Ejecutivo de Cierre y Evaluaci6n Expost,
Segundo Proyecto de Mantenimiento de Carreteras, Credito 2395-BO," La Paz, Bolivia
Econ6mica Consultores, April 2001, "Disenlo e Instauraci6n de un Sistema de Cargos a los Usuarios para
Establecer un Fondo de Mantenimiento Vial para la Red Vial Fundamental de Carreteras de Bolivia," La
Paz, Bolivia, elaborado para el Servicio Nacional de Caminos.
Proyecto de Reforma Institucional, Marzo 2001, "Estudio sobre la Sostenibilidad del Programa de Servicio
Civil en el Servicio Nacional de Caminos," Vice-Presidencia de la Republica, La Paz, Bolivia, elaborado
por consorcio Caem Consultores y Reingenieria Total.
Alonso-Biarge, Alonso, and Ortiz, Alexandra, May 2000, "Decentralization of Road Management: The
Experience of Bolivia and Other Ibero-American Countries," World Bank, LAC Region, Finance, Private
Sector and Infrastructure (LCSFP), Washington, DC.
Servicio Nacional de Caminos, Marzo 2000, "Plan Estrategico de Accion del Servicio Nacional de
Caminos, 2000-2002, Documento Ejecutivo," La Paz, Bolivia.
Aide Memoires from Missions of October 2000 and October 2001.
- 33 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Final Evaluation Report Summary
Informe Ejecutivo Final de Ejecucion del Segundo Proyecto de Mantenimiento de Carreteras
(Credito 2395-BO)
(Extracto)
Cumplimiento de los Objetivos del Proyecto
Mejoramiento y Rehabilitacion.- Se realiz6 el mejoramiento y rehabilitacion de 1,331.89 (un 87% del
total de 1538 km previstos durante la preparaci6n del proyecto) de carreteras de las cuales 775.10 km son
pavimentadas (casi 100 % de los programados 776 km) y 556.79 km son de grava (73 % de los 762 km
programados), sin embargo ahadiendo a estas longitudes las del Plan Piloto hacen un total de 1769.83 km
de carreteras (115 % del total programado). No se consideran en estas longitudes varios tramos en los
cuales no se concluyeron las obras por rescisi6n de contrato. Consiguientemente se super6 en longitud lo
inicialmente programado. Adicionalmente se rehabilit6 y/o mejoro un total de 65 puentes y se
construyeron 30 campamentos.
Evaluacion ExPost.- Los resultados del Evaluaci6n Econ6mica ExPost para 34 tramos con
mantenimiento peri6dico muestran una tasa interna de retomo es de 35.54 % para el total de los tramos
evaluados del proyecto (1,331.89 km), ligeramente inferior a la estimada durante la preparaci6n del
proyecto (39%), con un promedio ponderado del 34.38% para la red de grava y de 35.90% para la red
pavimentada. Los costos financieros por kil6metro para la red de grava alcanzan en promedio a 43.38
miles $US/km y para la red pavimentada a 97.66 miles $US/km, siendo en general para el total de la red
intervenida de 74.97 miles $US/km. El Valor Presente Neto (en $US de 1994) del proyecto alcanza a
$US264.27 millones siendo de $US31.71 millones para la Red de Grava, y de $US232.55 millones para
la Red Pavimentada. Consecuentemente podemos afirmar que el proyecto fue altamente beneficioso para
el pais.
Ejecuci6n presupuestaria.- Se puede mencionar que se ha alcanzado a ejecutar un 114% del monto total
de $US240,000,000.-, previsto originalmente durante la evaluaci6n del Credito 2395-BO, estimandose sin
embargo que este porcentaje es mayor por cuanto los recursos invertidos en aporte local son mucho mas de
los $US 168,949,933 ejecutados en labores de mantenimiento y emergecias ya que los mismos no incluyen
los recursos utilizados en mantenimiento rutinario durante los afios 1996, 1997 y 1998, periodo durante el
cual por la Ley No. 1654 de Descentralizacion Administrativa esta actividad pasa a depender de las
Prefecturas.
En lo que se refiere al monto del prestamo financiado por el Banco Mundial, si se considera el monto
original de XDR58,600,000.- se ha alcanzado a ejecutar el 99.6% del aporte correspondiente a la
Asociaci6n Intemacional de Fomento, sin embargo si se considera el monto original de $US80,000,000 se
debe mencionar que se ha ejecutado un 102% de lo previsto inicialmente, esto debido a que por las
variaciones cambiarias XDR/$US al cierre del Credito se tenia una cantidad mayor en d6lares americanos
A la conclusi6n del credito, una estimaci6n que incluye contraparte local del mantenimiento peri6dico,
mantenimiento rutinario y emergencias Ilega a $US 168,949,933, un 114% del monto original
($US 160,000,000.- previstos para el periodo 1992-1996) que ha sido desembolsado en el periodo
1992-Junio 2001, siendo el monto utilizado en mantenimiento rutinario igual a $US132,608,932.-,
superando ligeramente los 131,500,000.- establecidos en el convenio, sin embargo este monto no incluye
las actividades de mantenimiento rutinario realizadas en el periodo 1996-1998 durante el cual el TGN
- 34 -



derivo directamente los recursos a las Prefecturas, asimismo no incluye los montos ejecutados utilizados
en la Red Departamental que recibe mantenimiento por parte de las Prefecturas desde la promulgaci6n del
Decreto 25134 de agosto de 1998, que define la responsabilidad del SNC en la Red Fundamental y de las
Prefecturas en la Red Departamental.
En consecuencia consideramos que la ejecuci6n presupuestaria del credito se ha cumplido completamente,
habiendo quedado un remanente minimo de saldo sin ejecutar.
Preparacion Presupuestos Mantenimiento.- El proceso de preparaci6n del presupuesto del
mantenimiento se continu6 realizando mediante el Sistema de Administraci6n del Mantenimiento, fue
posible la preparaci6n de presupuestos mas ajustados a la realidad en base a los inventarios viales de
estado de la carretera, habiendose realizado el ultimo en 1998 actualizando la informaci6n que se tenia de
la red fundamental. Sin embargo se debe mencionar que son necesarias actualizaciones peri6dicas del
inventario vial, aspecto que no ha sido posible realizar debido a restricciones presupuestarias para el
funcionamiento de la instituci6n. Este aspecto es de fundamental importancia a fin de priorizar las
actuaciones tanto de mantenimiento rutinario como peri6dico en la red fundamental de caminos,
actualmente se obtiene informaci6n sobre el estado de la red de los supervisores del mantenimiento
rutinario. Con el avance del proceso de reforma institucional del SNC se espera realizar una programaci6n
presupuestaria mas adecuada a las necesidades de las carreteras, contando con recursos financieros
acordes a estas necesidades, y haciendo un uso mas adecuado de los mismos.
Sostenibilidady Autofinanciamiento.- En los que se refiere a la sostenibilidad y autonomia financiera del
Servicio Nacional de Caminos, se realizaron varios estudios con recursos del Credito 2395-BO que
plantearon diferentes altemativas a fin de conseguir la autosostenibilidad del mantenimiento en base a
cobros actualizados del peaje y/o tarifas incluidas en el costo de los combustibles. El ultimo estudio
realizado que recogi6 las recomendaciones y experiencias de los estudios anteriores fueron los Servicios de
Consultoria para la Definici6n del Fondo Vial, realizado en el anio 2001, planteando altemativas que se
adecuan a la realidad actual del pais. Sin embargo la implementaci6n de estas altemativas es materia de
decisi6n politica y esta en proceso de informarse a los niveles de decisi6n del Gobiemo sobre las ventajas
que tendria para el pais. Aun queda mucho por hacer y el impulso que el SNC, el VTCAC, el VIPFE y la
Asociaci6n Internacional de Fomento - Banco Mundial puedan dar a la implementaci6n de estas medidas
es de fundamental importancia para conseguir en el futuro una sostenibilidad financiera para el
mantenimiento de carreteras.
Planificacion y Programacion de Inversiones.- Por otra parte los requerimientos del Banco Mundial y
otros organismos financiadores referentes a las exigencias para acceder a los financiamientos han hecho
que el Servicio Nacional de Caminos, el Viceministerio de Transportes y Viceministerio de Inversi6n
Puiblica tomen conciencia de la necesidad de la planificaci6n y programaci6n de inversiones.
Consiguientemente en materia vial, se ha realizado el Plan Maestro de Transportes y se viene actualizando
permanentemente, siendo del afno 2000 la ultima actualizaci6n, debiendo las inversiones que realiza el
Servicio Nacional de Caminos regirse a las recomendaciones del mismo. Por otra parte con recursos del
Credito 2395-BO, Asociaci6n Intemacional de Fomento, en 1995 se realiz6 el Estudio sobre la Industria
de la Construcci6n, mismo que en su momento mostr6 el estado y capacidad de esta industria en Bolivia.
Fortalecimiento Institucionaly Capacitacion.- Por otra parte en lo que se refiere al Fortalecimiento
Institucional, el Segundo Proyecto de Mantenimiento ha financiado diferentes estudios de consultoria un
resumen de los mismos se incluye en el Anexo 6 los Contratos de Consultoria realizados con el Credito
2395-BO. Entre los estudios mas importantes se puede citar, en 1998 el Estudio de Reorganizaci6n del
Servicio Nacional de Caminos con el objetivo de defmir la nueva institucion tecnica para cumplir con las
- 35 -



funciones y atribuciones que le asigna la Ley 1788 de Organizaci6n del Poder Ejecutivo. Durante la
gesti6n 2000 y 2001 se ha contratado los servicios de consultoria para la Asesoria Institucional y
Preparaci6n del Plan Estrategico de Acci6n del SNC. El Banco Mundial ha apoyado la reestructuraci6n y
reforma institucional del SNC misma que actualmente se encuentra en proceso y tiene por objetivo hacer
del Servicio Nacional de Caminos una instituci6n eficiente y con la capacidad tecnica para lievar adelante
sus responsabilidades.
Tambien con recursos del Credito 2395-BO y dentro del programa de capacitaci6n se ha financiado la
asistencia de funcionarios del Servicio Nacional de Caminos a cursos de capacitaci6n tanto a nivel
nacional como intemacional, habiendose logrado mejorar el nivel tecnico del personal contandose con
profesionales actualizados en conocimientos tecnicos.
Plan Piloto de Mantenimiento.- El aino 1998 se program6 con fmanciamiento del Credito 2398-BO, un
Plan Piloto de Mantenimiento por Contrato, que serviria de base para la preparaci6n del Programa
Nacional de Mantenimiento Rutinario ya que hasta ese momento las empresas privadas en Bolivia habian
ejecutado trabajos de construcci6n, rehabilitaci6n y mantenimiento peri6dico en las carreteras del pais, sin
embargo no existia experiencia en ejecutar actividades de mantenimiento rutinario. Esta experiencia piloto
podria extenderse posteriormente al resto de carreteras de la red fundamental del pais. El objetivo del
Programa Piloto fue que permitiera realizar los ajustes, mejoras y cambios necesarios en los documentos
de licitaci6n, en la minuta de contrato y en los procedimientos de supervisi6n, seguirniento y control. Se
seleccionaron siete tramos tomando en consideraci6n tipo de superficie, la zona geografica y la condici6n
(caminos pavimentados con condicion 4 y caminos de grava 3).
Inicialmente el Plan Piloto se programo para su ejecuci6n en 6 (seis) meses, debiendo iniciar en Octubre de
1998 sin embargo por demoras en el proceso de licitaci6n y adjudicaci6n, debido entre otros al poco
interes de los contratistas en contratos con montos relativamente pequefios, demora en entrega de los
campamentos por parte de los Servicios Prefecturales de Caminos y las dificultades para la asignaci6n de
los supervisores, recien se iniciaron trabajos a comienzos de la gestion 1999, consiguientemente en algunos
casos estos trabajos se iniciaron paralelamente al Programa Nacional de Mantenimiento Rutinario, que
consecuentemente, se prepar6 sin tener en cuenta la experiencia del Plan Piloto.
Otro de los objetivos que se alcanz6 fue la preparaci6n de los ingenieros que posteriormente se harian
cargo de la supervisi6n del Programa Nacional de Mantenimiento Rutinario. Los primeros supervisores
que se contrataron para el programa piloto, fue personal propio del S.N.C. y coordinadores del Segundo
Proyecto de Mantenimiento. Sin embargo como el financiamiento del plan piloto no incluia el pago de los
honorarios profesionales para estos supervisores, se produjo un retraso del inicio de los trabajos. La
supervisi6n se realizo por medio de los Ingenieros Supervisores contratados como Consultores
Individuales para el Programa Nacional de Mantenimiento, que trabajaron en forma paralela con el Plan
Piloto. A traves del Plan piloto se pretendi6 que la supervisi6n utilice el programa computacional
SAMSNC (Sistema de Administraci6n del Mantenimiento del S.N.C.) a fin de facilitar el seguimiento de
las actividades ejecutadas por las empresas privadas encargadas del mantenimiento. Uno de los mayores
problemas con los que se ha tropezado ha sido la supervisi6n que no cumplio con la eficacia esperada sus
labores ya que no llegaron a tener un conocimiento completo de los trabajos ejecutados en sus secciones de
control.
La longitud total del Plan Piloto de Mantenimiento fue de 437.94 km, con un monto total de contratos de
$USI,387,831.82. El Plan Piloto de Mantenimiento por Contrato permiti6 establecer las bases de los
documentos de licitaci6n, proceso de adjudicaci6n, adecuaci6n de los presupuestos y precios unitarios por
regiones geograficas en Bolivia que se utilizaron en el Programa Nacional de Mantenimiento Rutinario.
- 36 -



Por otra parte permiti6 establecer los primeros lineamientos de la metodologia de supervisi6n que
posteriormente se utiliz6 para la contrataci6n de trabajos de seguimiento en el mantenimiento rutinario.
Los tramos incluidos en el Plan Piloto de mantenimiento, al haber sido adjudicados con mejores
presupuestos (costos por kil6metro que oscilan desde los 4.300 $us/km hasta 8.400 $us/km), ha mostrado
buenos resultados al permitir incrementar la frecuencia de ejecuci6n de las actividades, a diferencia del
Programa Nacional de Mantenimiento Rutinario que ha demostrado resultados inferiores al ser el
presupuesto mucho mas bajo al del Plan Piloto. Actualmente se presupuesta alrededor de
$us l4,000,000.-para aproximadamente 9,000 km de la Red Fundamental mantenible, alcanzando un
presupuesto promedio de $US 1,550/km al anio, monto muy inferior al del Plan Piloto.
Se puede concluir que pese a los procesos de reforma, y considerando los continuos cambios politicos y de
autoridades que de alguna manera incidieron en la ejecuci6n de los proyectos viales, los subproyectos del
Credito 2395-BO fueron concluidos satisfactoriamente, aunque con un sustancial incremento en los plazos
de ejecuci6n dados los problemas que enfrento el Servicio Nacional de Caminos habiendose requerido un
gran esfuerzo por parte del personal profesional responsable.
GESTION DEL SERVICIO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS
Consideramos que la gesti6n tecnica, administrativa, y financiera del Servicio Nacional de Caminos ha
sido satisfactoria, habiendose concluido los proyectos y realizado los informes de cierre respectivos,
exceptuando algunos que se encuentran en proceso. Los informes de auditoria extema de los estados
fmancieros tanto para el Segundo Proyecto de Mantenimiento como para el Servicio Nacional de Caminos
han recibido la aceptaci6n del organismo financiador que a su tiempo ha requerido los cambios necesarios
para la mejora.
Mejora Sistema Contable-Financiero del SNC.- A objeto de cubrir deficiencias y problemas
identificados en la Auditoria Externa del SNC para la gesti6n 1999, el organismo fmanciador ha accedido
a utilizar fondos del credito para la contrataci6n de consultorias que coadyuven a resolver estos
problemas, consiguientemente se ha procedido al Seguimiento y Control de los Informes de Auditoria
Extema, realizar el analisis y cumplimiento de las recomendaciones del Informe de Evaluaci6n de los
Sistemas de Administraci6n y Control (SAYCO), asimismo se ha procedido a la instalaci6n del Sistema de
Contabilidad integrada hallandose el sistema en actual operaci6n desde el 9 de agosto de 2001. El nuevo
sistema no s6lo impone una rigurosa disciplina presupuestaria sino que, ademas coadyuva de manera
importante a las morosas conciliaciones mensuales y anuales que se realizaban entre las unidades de
presupuestos, contabilidad y tesoreria, esta ultima unidad se ha reforzado a fin que puedan reforzar sus
actividades con mayor eficiencia. Actualmente se continiua el proceso de la mejora del sistema contable
administrativo-financiero a fin de mejorar la eficiencia de la administraci6n de recursos.
Impulso a Ejecuci6n de Obras Complementarias.- Durante la ejecuci6n de los subproyectos del Segundo
Proyecto de Mantenimiento las regiones manifestaron interes en la ampliaci6n de los trabajos,
consiguientemente se realizaron convenios con las Prefecturas para proceder a la ampliaci6n de los
contratos con las empresas contratistas y supervisoras, corriendo los costos de los contratos ampliatorios a
cargo de las Prefecturas, y otros organismos financiadores como la Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento,
Recursos Non Project. Consiguientemente los proyectos del Credito 2395-BO sirvieron como incentivo
para la ampliaci6n de obras con otros recursos adicionales a los del Banco Mundial. En los proyectos de
mantenimiento de carreteras en varios casos, de acuerdo a las caracteristicas del trafico y de la zona, se
estableci6 la conveniencia y necesidad de realizar mejoras con respecto al tipo de trabajo que debia
ejecutarse en un principio, mejorando las condiciones de la superficie de rodadura a un Tratamiento
Superficial, ya sea Simple, Doble o Triple, y hasta en algunos casos a una Carpeta Asfaltada. Las
- 37 -



modificaciones se las realiz6 a partir de Ordenes de Cambio y Contratos Ampliatorios.
Programa Nacional de Mantenimiento Rutinario.- Estando previsto inicialmente que como aporte del
Gobiemo de Bolivia, debia ejecutarse un presupuesto de $US1 31,500,000.-, se ha alcanzado a ejecutar un
presupuesto de $US 168,949,933 (mantenimiento rutinario y emergencias) sin embargo este monto no
incluye las actividades de mantenimiento rutinario realizadas en el periodo 1996-1998 durante el cual el
TGN derivo directamente los recursos a las Prefecturas, asimismo no incluye los montos ejecutados
utilizados en la Red Departamental que recibe mantenimiento por parte de las Prefecturas desde la
promulgaci6n del Decreto 25134 de agosto de 1998, que define la responsabilidad del SNC en la Red
Fundamental y de las Prefecturas en la Red Departamental. Consiguientemente aunque no ha sido posible
hacer una cuantificaci6n exacta debido a los cambios en la responsabilidad del mantenimiento tales como
la descentralizaci6n administrativa y otros que se describen mas adelante, se estima que los gastos han sido
mayores..
A partir del Decreto Supremo 25134, se divide la Red Fundamental en 39 tramos con longitudes promedio
de 200 km, decidiendose la contrataci6n de empresas que realicen el mantenimiento rutinario y la atenci6n
a emergencias por un periodo de tres anios a partir de 1999, los montos presupuestados con restricciones
presupuestarias fueron proyectados en $US13,791,281 por afio tomando en cuenta las recaudaciones del
peaje, sin embargo siendo estos montos son insuficientes y por la falta de recursos se postergan 4 tramos,
de los cuales 3 se encuentran ubicados en el departamento del Beni y uno en Pando. El presupuesto real
necesario para atender la red fundamental que permita mantener la red fundamental a niveles aceptables es
de alrededor de $US 28,000,000.00 anuales, monto que permitiria subir la condici6n de los caminos de
grava de condici6n 2 (malo y pesimo) a condici6n 3 (regular) y en caminos pavimentados de condici6n 3
(regular) a condici6n 4 (bueno).
Ante estos problemas el Servicio Nacional de Caminos ha respondido con el proceso de Reforma
Institucional y la realizaci6n de estudios que presenten altemativas para la autosostenibilidad del
mantenimiento, las mismas sin embargo dependen de la toma de decisiones a nivel gubemamental,
habiendose iniciado un proceso de toma de conciencia sobre el costo real del mantenimiento de carreteras.
Estadoy condici6n de la red vial.- De acuerdo a la Estadistica Vial 1997-1998 del SNC, para diciembre
de 1997 la Red Vial Nacional comprende 53,468 km de los cuales 3,071 km (5.7%) estaba pavimentada,
16,415 km es de grava (30.7%) y 33,982 km es de tierra (63.6%). Desde 1992 la red vial nacional ha
tenido un incremento en longitud total de red de 7,154 kin, las carreteras pavimentadas se han
incrementado en 1128 kmn, las de grava en 1245 kin, y las de tierra en 4785 kln. La Red Fundamental
actualmente alcanza a aproximadamente 10,400 km (a los que recientemente se han afiadido unos 1,200
km de vias secundarias, por un total de 11,631 km). Una estimaci6n de su estado indica que actualmente
se cuenta con un 63 % de la red fundamental en estado aceptable (excelente, bueno o regular) y un 37 %
de la red en mala o pesima condici6n. Si se considera la condici6n durante la evaluaci6n del proyecto para
el total de la red vial, que indicaba que solo 11 % de la misma podia ser clasificada como buena o regular,
un 38% de la red estaba en estado pobre y el restante 51% estaba en malas condiciones, podemos afirmar
que el estado de la red vial ha mejorado en lo que se refiere a la Red Fundamental.
Cambios Institucionales del SNC.- Uno de los aspectos importantes que se debe resaltar es que durante el
periodo 1995- 1998 existieron cambios fundamentales que tuvieron su influencia en la administraci6n no
solamente de los subproyectos del Segundo Proyecto de Mantenimiento sino en la administraci6n de todos
los proyectos viales en general.
Asi el aFio 1995 la Ley No. 1654 de Descentralizaci6n Administrativa, dispone la redistribuci6n de
- 38 -



poder politico a traves de la transferencia y delegaci6n de atribuciones tecnico - administrativo a las
Prefecturas Departamentales, de acuerdo al Decreto Supremo No. 24215 que reglamenta la Ley
1654 se establece un periodo de transici6n en el cual el Servicio Nacional de Caminos continuara
funcionando bajo regimen legal de su creaci6n, hasta la conclusion de aquellos proyectos y obras
que a la fecha del decreto cuentan con financiamiento externo contratado o se encuentran en proceso
de negociaci6n. A partir del Iro de Junio de 1996, implantada la transferencia de los caminos y su
equipamiento, asi como la responsabilidad deformulaci6n de proyectos y ejecuci6n de la
construcci6n y mantenimiento de carreteras, caminos secundarios y aquellos concurrentes con los
Gobiernos Municipales a los entes Regionales, compete a las Prefecturas administrar, supervisary
con trolar elfuncionamiento de los servicios de vialidad a traves de los Servicios Departamen tales de
Caminos.
Al no ser el proceso de descentralizaci6n planificado y no contar las Prefecturas con la capacidad tecnica y
administrativa para llevar adelante sus responsabilidades en materia de mantenimiento vial, tuvo
repercusiones negativas para el estado de las carreteras.
Por Ley 1 788 del 16 de septiembre de 1997, Art. 18, el Servicio Nacional de Caminos asume
nuevamente la responsabilidad de la planificaci6n, construcci6n, mantenimiento y administraci6n de
las carreteras de caracter nacional. Seguin articulo 45 y 46 del Decreto Supremo No. 24855 el
Servicio Nacional de Caminos es definido como una instituci6n ptublica descentralizada bajo
tuicion del Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico.
El D. S. 25134 del 31 de agosto de 1998 define la nueva Red Fundamental de caminos que por su
importancia nacionalpasan a depender del Servicio Nacional de Caminos. La nueva red
fundamental comprende 10401 Km y esta clasificada en 17 carreteras que integran las capitales de
departamento y principales puntos fronterizos del pais con paises vecinos.
Finalmente enfecha 29 de septiembre de 2001, sale el Decreto Supremo 26336, Marco Institucional
del Servicio Nacional de Caminos, mismo que reglamenta el marco institucional de la institucion,
base fundamental para elfuncionamiento de la institucion una vez elegidos sus Directores.
Con relaci6n a los inconvenientes que se presentaron en la ejecuci6n de los proyectos una de las
principales fue no contar con datos actualizados del deterioro de los proyectos (carreteras, puentes, etc.) en
el momento de la Licitaci6n de los mismos, por cuanto esto dio lugar a que tuvieran que realizarse
ampliaciones de contrato a fin de poder cubrir la totalidad de las obras necesarias.
Los procesos de descentralizaci6n y posterior reformulaci6n de responsabilidades del SNC sufridos en los
ultimos afios y mencionados anteriormente, la demora en el pago del aporte local asi como los ultimos
procesos de reforma institucional que se viene llevando a cabo en el organismo ejecutor han ocasionado
demoras en la ejecuci6n de los proyectos, y consecuentes ampliaciones de plazo en las conclusiones de
contrato, estos aspectos hicieron que el Servicio Nacional de Caminos tenga que realizar una gesti6n ardua
y dificil gracias a la cual se llev6 a cabo la conclusi6n de los subproyectos en ejecuci6n del Segundo
Proyecto de Mantenimiento de manera satisfactoria.
GESTION DEL ORGANISMO FINANCIADOR
Se puede mencionar que la participaci6n de la Asociaci6n Internacional de Fomento - Banco Mundial en
el seguimiento de los subproyectos del Credito 2395-BO ha sido de trascendental importancia para llevar a
buen ftn los mismos. La coordinaci6n directa conI los representantes del Banco Mundial a fin de esclarecer
- 39 -



dudas y agilizar el procesamiento de la informaci6n, ha sido servido para evitar demoras en la gesti6n de
las no objeciones.
La presencia y participaci6n del Banco Mundial a traves de sus diferentes misiones ha servido para que
conjuntamente los representantes de este organismo fmanciero se pueda realizar un seguimiento adecuado
de las obras, habiendose aportado a la mejora de las especificaciones tecnicas especialmente en lo que se
refiere a sefalizaci6n y seguridad vial. Esta actualizaci6n de especificaciones tecnicas se realiz6 para el
Proyecto Abap6-Camiri, Credito 3235-BO, sin embargo tambien fueron aplicados a los subproyectos del
Segundo Proyecto de Mantenimiento que fueron ejecutados en la etapa final del credito, es asi que en los
tramos Chimor&-Ichilo y Machacamarquita-Huanuni se incluyeron mejoras en la sefializaci6n horizontal y
vertical.
Los requerimientos del Banco Mundial a objeto de cubrir las condiciones del Credito, han posibilitado que
el Servicio Nacional de Caminos, con el apoyo del organismo fmanciador mejore su sistema contable
administrativo-financiero, contando a la fecha con los Informes de Auditoria Extema del SNC asi como
del Segundo Proyecto de Mantenimiento para la gesti6n 2000.
Por otra parte el impulso que el Banco Mundial - AIF ha dado a la institucionalizaci6n del Servicio
Nacional de. Caminos ha sido fundamental, hallandose la instituci6n en pleno proceso de reforma,
habiendose dado el arranque inicial con la elecci6n del Directorio Pernanente del Servicio Nacional de
Caminos en el Congreso mediante Decreto Supremo.
LECCIONES APRENDIDAS.-
Se vio la necesidad de contar con estudios actualizados de los proyectos, puesto que el estado de la
carretera puede sufrir variaciones importantes, hasta la fecha de inicio de las obras, significando
volumenes de obra que no se encuentran contemplados en las cantidades propuestas en las Licitaciones,
por tal motivo el Servicio Nacional de Caminos tuvo que actualizar paulatinamente el disefno y los montos
(con Ordenes de Cambio y Ordenes de Trabajo), en el transcurso del proyecto que en algunos casos
sobrepasaron el 20% del monto inicial del contrato, teniendo que preverse ampliaciones de Contrato y
otras modificaciones que dificultan y retrasan el desarrollo normal del proyecto.
Deben agilizarse tambien los procesos licitatorios a fin de que las cantidades estimadas no sufran grandes
variaciones dados los tiempos transcurridos desde la estimaci6n hasta la implementaci6n de la obra,
consecuentemente es recomendable quepreviamente a la licitaci6n de obras se realicen actualizaciones
de las cantidades y presupuestos previstos, asi como se prevean plazos para elproceso de califlcaci6n
y evaluaci6tn.
Es necesario crear un mecanismo de pago automatico del aporte local por parte de las Prefecturas a fm de
evitar demoras y ampliaciones de plazo en la ejecuci6n de los proyectos, este aspecto sera solucionado con
la creaci6n del Fideicomiso de Aportes Locales mediante Decreto Supremo 26336 de fecha 29 de octubre
de 2001.
Asimismo es necesario agilizar elproceso de aprobacion de lasplanillas de pago dentro de la
instituci6tn, con la implementacion de manuales deprocedimientos con plazos para cadafuncionario.
Aspectos Tecnicos.- En relaci6n a las carreteras de grava se mejor6 las especificaciones tecnicas, en los
proyectos de area oriental, se efectuaron modificaciones para lograr Sub-bases con indices de plasticidad
entre 6 y 10 a fin de establecer una faja granulometrica que asegure durabilidad, con una adecuada
- 40 -



interrelaci6n de fracci6n y de alta cohesi6n.
En muchos casos el drenaje y las obras de protecci6n se incrementaron a fin de asegurar un drenaje fluido
y evitar problemas de erosi6n en epoca de lluvias, asimismo, se efectuaron modificaciones geometricas
adecuadas a las caracteristicas de los vehiculos y cargas circulantes.
En carreteras asfaltadas se estableci6 la importancia de los Tratamientos Superficiales Simples como
sellos de protecci6n, que pese a sus limitantes, cuando se ejecutan oportunamente, prolongan la vida uItil de
los pavimentos como el caso del Tramo La Guardia - Taruma. Se estableci6 la necesidad de incrementar
la utilizaci6n de cordones en areas pobladas por el deterioro de las banquinas y capa de rodadura. Se
estableci6 que los tratamientos superficiales no tienen duraci6n en banquinas. Se realizaron experiencias
positivas con el uso de Geotextiles en dos tramos cortos del proyecto Warnes - Montero y la Guardia -
Taruma, mostrando el control del reflejo de fisuras. En los trabajos realizados en las rutas Guabira -
Okinawa y Guabira - Mineros - Chane, se estableci6 que el proceso constructivo, debe ser
cuidadosamente realizado, con la tecnologia apropiada, asi por ejemplo es necesario usar Geotextiles
previamente embebidos y/o las denominadas Geomallas. Se puede tambien asumir, que las bases
bituminosas con alto porcentaje de vacios, no han resultado adecuadas para las condiciones del pais y
presentan limitaciones en los trabajos de mantenimiento.
En los proyectos ejecutados con recursos del Cr&dito 2395-BO se incorpor6 las recomendaciones tecnicas
realizadas por el Banco Mundial a las especificaciones tecnicas del proyectos Abap6-Camiri, mejorandose
de esta manera la seguridad mediante sefializaci6n horizontal y vertical actualizada (dimensiones mayores
de seializaci6n verficales, acorde con las mayorers velocidades de circulaci6n, sefalizaci6n horizontal
acorde con las normas horizontales, lineas amarillas centrales y blancas en los laterales, mayor visibilidad
en curvas y accesos a puentes, con ojos de gato y sefializaci6n vertical).
Dentro de uno de los problemas mas grandes con los que tropezo la instancia de seguimiento tanto en la
oficina central como en las diferentes Coordinaciones Regionales y Unidad Regional fue que los proyectos
no tuvieron un seguimiento muy continuo, debido a que existi6 mucho cambio de personal tanto a nivel de
jefaturas como de planta, con los consiguientes problemas en el seguimiento de los proyectos.
La institucionalizaci6n del Servicio Nacional de Carninos llevado a cabo por el Proyecto de Reforma
Institucional y con el apoyo del Banco Mundial, convertira a la instituci6n en un ente netamente tecnico en
el cual muchos de los problemas arriba sefialados seran resueltos mediante una administraci6n eficiente
que cuente con los recursos necesarios para administrar la red vial fundamental, el proceso de cambio se
ha iniciado y seguiri delante.
CONCLUSIONES
A la finalizaci6n del credito se puede concluir que el Credito 2395-BO Segundo Proyecto de
Mantenimiento ha sido satisfactorio para el Gobiemo de Bolivia al haberse cumplido los objetivos del
proyecto. Dentro de los beneficios que se obtuvieron gracias a la implementaci6n y ejecuci6n del Segundo
Proyecto de Mantenimiento, podemos citar los siguientes:
Se puede observar en base a los indicadores mencionados que los objetivos del Segundo Proyecto de
Mantenimiento, Credito 2395-BO fueron alcanzados, sin duda los beneficios del mejoramiento y
rehabilitaci6n de mas de 1332 km de carreteras asi como de el mantenimiento mediante el Plan Piloto de
438 km, no solamente son los que muestran los indicadores de TIR 35.54% y VAN de $US264.27
Millones que exponen que los proyectos fueron rentables y altamente beneficiosos para el pais, al mismo
- 41 -



tiempo al haberse rehabilitados carreteras pertenecientes a la Red Fundamental que soportan
aproximadamnente el 70% del trafico vehicular el efecto multiplicador sobre la economia del pais y
fundamentalnente los beneficios sobre los pobladores, especialmente los que viven en el area de influencia
de los proyectos ha sido mucho mayores.
Sin el financiamiento de la Asociaci6n Internacional de Fomento, el estado de los tramos rehabilitados de la
Red Fundamental hubiera sido completamente diferente, en detrimento del patrimonio vial del pais, y
consecuentemente hubieran sido necesarias inversiones mucho mayores, ademas de que los costos de
operaci6n del transporte se hubieran elevado con su efecto consiguiente en la economia.
El objetivo de mejorar el proceso de preparaci6n del presupuesto del mantenimiento de carreteras fue
alcanzado medianamente, sin embargo la descentralizaci6n administrativa del SNC y la asignaci6n
insuficiente de recursos hicieron que el proceso de estimaci6n precisa de las necesidades sea insuficiente
por cuanto no se cuenta con la informaci6n actualizada del estado de la red vial, pese a las condiciones
adversas y continuos cambios de Direcci6n en el SNC, todo el proceso de planificaci6n, administraci6n y
mantenimiento de carreteras se mantuvo y se actualiz6, en materia vial el Viceministerio de Transporte
prepar6 el Plan Maestro de Transportes que incluye la priorizaci6n de carreteras para los siguientes 20
afios, guiandose el SNC en la actualidad bajo estos lineamientos.
Por otra parte el componente de capacitacion y fortalecimiento institucional permiti6 financiar la asistencia
de varios profesionales del SNC a diversos cursos de capacitaci6n (Pavimentos, HDM-III, Congresos
Viales, Medio Ambiente, etc.). Es de destacar el fortalecimiento reciente de la unidad de Medio Ambiente
del SNC, esperandose sin embargo mayor apoyo a este sector en el futuro.
En lo que respecta al autofmanciamiento del mantenimiento, se realizaron con fondos del credito diversos
estudios que ayudaron a sentar las bases y sobre todo concienciar a los ejecutivos sobre la necesidad de la
creaci6n de mecanismos que ayuden a alcanzar el objetivo, sin embargo la implementaci6n de las medidas
debe realizarse desde el nivel gubemamental por las implicaciones sociales y politicas que existen al
considerarse actualizaci6n de las tarifas de peaje y otras forrnas de recaudaci6n y cobro.
Por otra parte el impulso que dio el Banco Mundial-Asociaci6n Intemacional de Fomento al proceso de
reforma institucional del SNC fue de extrema importancia para el inicio del cambio, actualmente el
Servicio Nacional de Caminos se encuentra en pleno proceso de institucionalizaci6n con una nueva imagen
y visi6n de la entidad a fin de que esta sirva a los fines para los cuales fue creada y cuente con la capacidad
tecnica, administrativa y los medios para llevar a cabo sus objetivos. Se espera que este proceso de cambio
se materialice de manera gradual de acuerdo a lo programado.
Consecuentemente dados los beneficios que tuvo el Segundo Proyecto de Mantenimiento para la economia
del pais, y para el Servicio Nacional de Caminos como instituci6n administradora de la Red Vial
Fundamental, consideramos que el apoyo futuro del organismo financiador en los proyectos en ejecuci6n y
futuros en actual gesti6n sera vital para concluir con la reforma institucional y con la preservaci6n del
patrimonio vial con los consiguientes beneficios resultantes de un manejo eficiente y efectivo de los
recursos existentes.
- 42 -



