Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2395 BO
(Second Road Maintenance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SERVICIO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS
Dated July 14, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2395 BO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and SERVICIO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS (SNC).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
fifty-eight million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 58,600,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that SNC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and SNC, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to SNC on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS SNC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SNC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and 
with the Road Investment Plan and the Road Maintenance Program, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule 
to this Agreement, and shall be made in accordance with the model bidding documents 
referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. SNC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. SNC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SNC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SNC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
(b)
SNC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SNC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
Section 2.06. SNC shall:
(a)
(i) carry out or cause to be carried out the Road Maintenance Program 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
technical and administrative standards and practices; (ii) provide, or cause to be 
provided, in a timely manner, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the carrying out of the Road Maintenance Program; (ii) furnish to the 
Association, by not later than September 30, 1992, and by September 30 of each year 
thereafter, until the completion of the Project, an update of the Road Maintenace 
Program for the upcoming four-year period, satisfactory to the Association; and (iv) 
furnish to the Association, by not later than March 31, 1993 and by March 31 of each 
year thereafter, evidence, satisfactory to the Association, of the expenditures made 
in respect of the Road Maintenance Program in the previous year and the amounts 
allocated for the execution of such Program in the current fiscal year.
(b)
notwithstanding the provisions above, consult with the Association: (i) 
before making any commitment to carry out civil works under the Project, if the final 
engineering costs for such works exceed 25% of the estimated original costs included 
in the Road Maintenance Program; and (ii) before increasing, cumulatively, the number 
of kilometers subject to periodic maintenance under the Road Maintenance Program by 
more than 5% of the number of kilometers referred to in Part A.1 of the Project.
Section 2.07. SNC shall, by not later than December 31, 1992, prepare and 
furnish to the Association the engineering designs, satisfactory to the Association: 
(a) included in Part E.2 of the Project; and (b) for the bridges to be maintained and 
rehabilitated under Part B of the Project.
Section 2.08. SNC shall:
(a)
by not later than September 30, 1992, and by September 30 of each year 
thereafter, until the Project shall have been completed, prepare and furnish to the 
Page  3
Association a list containing the maintenance activities to be carried out under Part 
A.2 of the Project during the immediately following year, such list to be in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
by not later than March 31, 1993, and by March 31 of each year 
thereafter, until the Project shall have been completed, prepare and furnish to the 
Association, a report, satisfactory to the Association, including a description of all 
the expenditures made by SNC on the road maintenance carried out by force account in 
the immediately preceding year, by category of expenditure.
Section 2.09. SNC shall maintain its maintenance branch (Jefatura de 
Mantenimiento), MU, BMU, EU and UEP, all in form and with functions, structure and 
staff satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.10. SNC shall, not later than December 31, 1993, put into operation 
the axle weighing equipment included in Part D.2 of the Project.
Section 2.11. (a) SNC shall, not later than December 31, 1993, carry out and 
furnish to the Association, the studies included in Parts E.4 and E.5 of the Project, 
under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
With respect to, and based on the recommendations of, the study included 
in Part E.4 of the Project, SNC shall present to the Association, by not later than 
September 30, 1994, and include in the review to be carried out in accordance with 
Section 2.14 (b) of this Agreement, an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, 
containing the mechanisms to finance the road and bridge maintenance costs to be 
incurred in calendar year 1996 and thereafter.
Section 2.12. SNC shall:
(a)
promptly enter into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the 
Association with an independent auditor or auditors acceptable to the Association, for 
the purposes of the timely and efficient compliance with the obligations included in 
Article IV of the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
promptly enter into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the 
Association, for the purposes of providing services for the Project on behalf of SNC, 
including the contracting of consultants and procurement of goods and works in respect 
of each contract therefor estimated to cost more than the equivalent of 200,000 
Bolivianos and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit; and
(c)
exercise its rights under the contractual arrangements referred to in 
paragraphs (a) and (b) above in such a manner as to protect the interest of SNC, the 
Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.13. Without any limitation to or restriction upon its reporting 
requirements under this Agreement, or upon any of the rights of the Association under 
this Agreement, SNC shall, not later than March 31, 1993, and not later than each 
March 31 thereafter, until such time as the report referred to in Section 9.06 (c) of 
the General Conditions shall have been furnished to the Association, prepare and 
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the immediately preceding year, such report to be satisfactory to the Association, and 
to include, inter alia, any proposed organizational or institutional change in the 
Borrower's road subsector.
Section 2.14. SNC shall: (a) not later than September 30, 1993, and not later 
than September 30 thereafter, until the Project shall have been completed, review with 
the Association and the Borrower, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, the progress in the carrying out of the Project and in the achievements 
of the objectives of the Project, such reviews to be based on the reports referred to 
in Section 2.13 of this Agreement;
(b)
without any limitation or restriction upon its obligation under paragraph 
(a) above, include in the review to be carried out on September 30, 1994, an 
assessment of SNC's maintenance planning and budget allocations and the correspondence 
between such allocations and the actual and timely release of the respective allocated 
funds by the Borrower to SNC; and
(c)
if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Association determines 
Page  4
that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the achievement of the 
objectives of the Project is not satisfactory, SNC shall promptly take, or cause to be 
taken, all such remedial action, satisfactory to the Association, as shall be 
necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or for the achievement of the 
objectives of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SNC
Section 3.01. SNC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers, all in accordance with the organizational changes 
referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 3.02. SNC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and SNC practices.
Section 3.03. SNC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SNC shall maintain records and separate accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
SNC shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
SNC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify SNC of this event.
Page  5
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For SNC:
Servicio Nacional de Caminos
Edificio Centro de Comunicaciones
Avenida Mariscal Santa Cruz
   esquina Oruro
Piso 8
La Paz, Bolivia
Telex:
2648 MINCOM
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SNC may be 
taken or executed by its Director Nacional or such other person or persons as the 
Director Nacional shall designate in writing, and SNC shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  6
SERVICIO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS
By /s/ Jorge Crespo Velasco
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for traffic counters, weighing scales, 
laboratory equipment and safety road materials shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works for road periodic maintenance under Part A.1 of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than the equivalent of $2,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed the equivalent of $22,900,000, and works for bridge maintenance and 
repair and for the improvement of work compounds (including warehouses) and the 
construction of workshops under Part C of the Project, estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $8,800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.
2.
Works for the repair of road maintenance equipment, estimated to cost more than 
the equivalent of $25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $3,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited 
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids 
invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the 
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.
Works for the repair of road maintenance equipment, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
the equivalent of $500,000, and traffic counters, weighing scales, laboratory 
equipment and road safety materials, estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract awarded pursuant to Parts A and C.2 hereof 
and to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) 
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of 
Page  7
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist SNC in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis 
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
