Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2395 BO
(Second Road Maintenance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 14, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2395 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Servicio Nacional de Caminos with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Servicio Nacional de Caminos the proceeds of the Credit as provided in 
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and Servicio Nacional de Caminos;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Banco Central" means the Central Bank of the Borrower;
 
(b)
"Boliviano" means the unit of currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"BMU" means the bridge maintenance unit within SNC, referred to in 
Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement (as such term is hereinafter defined);
(d)
"EU" means the environmental unit within SNC, referred to in Section 2.09 
of the Project Agreement (as such term is hereinafter defined);
(e)
"MTC" means Ministerio de Transportes, Comunicaciones y Aeronautica 
Civil, the Ministry of Transport, Communications and Civil Aeronautics of the 
Borrower;
(f)
"MU" means the maintenance unit within SNC, referred to in Section 2.09 
of the Project Agreement (as such term is hereinafter defined);
(g)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and SNC 
(as such term is hereinafter defined) of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Project Agreement;
(h)
"Road Investment Plan" means the Borrower's plan of public investments 
for road construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation and periodic maintenance, for 
the period from 1992 through 1996, as established in a letter from the Borrower to the 
Association dated April 23, 1992;
(i)
"Road Maintenance Program" means SNC's (as such term is hereinafter 
defined) annual program of works (carried out under contract or by force account) and 
related equipment and material for the routine and periodic maintenance, drainage (to 
include structures up to a maximum span of ten (10) meters) and installation of road 
signalization and safety fixtures of the road network of the Borrower, for the period 
from 1992 through 1995, as established in a letter from SNC to the Association dated 
April 23, 1992;
(j)
"SAE" means Sistema de Administracion de Equipo, the Borrower's equipment 
management system;
(k)
"SAM" means Sistema de Administracion de Mantenimiento, the Borrower's 
maintenance management system;
(l)
"SNC" means Servicio Nacional de Caminos, the national road authority of 
the Borrower;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(n)
"Statutes" means the statutes of SNC, approved by Resolucion Ministerial 
No. 2544, dated July 4, 1979, of MTC, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(o)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SNC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; and
(p)
"UEP" means the unit within SNC in charge of the administration of the 
Project, referred to in Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty eight million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 58,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Banco Central on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2002 and ending March 15, 2032. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2012 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause SNC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of SNC therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SNC to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to SNC under 
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SNC, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement, and shall be made in accordance with the model bidding 
documents referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out or cause to be carried out the 
Road Investment Plan with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, technical and administrative standards and practices; (b) 
provide, or cause to be provided, in a timely manner, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the carrying out of the Road Investment Plan; (c) 
furnish to the Association, by not later than September 30, 1992, and by September 30 
of each year thereafter, until the completion of the Project, an update of the Road 
Investment Plan for the upcoming four-year period, satisfactory to the Association; 
and (d) consult with the Association before incurring any expenditures under the Road 
Investment Plan which exceeds 10% of the aggregate amount of expenditures projected 
for each specific year.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to any of its obligations under this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall:
(a)
allocate in its annual budget for SNC, for the years 1992 through 1996, 
the following minimum amounts, as counterpart funds for the financing of the Project:
(i)
$28,100,000 equivalent for calendar year 1992;
 
(ii)
$42,200,000 equivalent for calendar year 1993;
 
(iii)
$46,100,000 equivalent for calendar year 1994;
 
(iv)
$43,200,000 equivalent for calendar year 1995; and
 
(v)
$400,000 equivalent for calendar year 1996;
 
Page  5
(b)
by not later than September 30, 1994, present to the Association a plan 
of action, satisfactory to the Association, containing the proposed mechanisms to 
ensure the financing of the routine and periodic road and bridge maintenance 
expenditures for 1996 and thereafter; and
(c)
carry out such plan of action in a timely manner, in form satisfactory to 
the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all action, satisfactory to the 
Association, necessary to maintain the fuel prices charged by retailers in the 
territory of the Borrower at a level satisfactory to the Association and adequate to 
reflect at least c.i.f. (cost, insurance and freight) prices plus distribution costs 
and retailers' profit margin.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than September 30, 1993, and not 
later than September 30 thereafter, until the Project shall have been completed, 
review with the Association and SNC, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, the progress in the carrying out of the Project and in the achievements 
of the objectives of the Project, such reviews to be based on the reports referred to 
in Section 2.13 of the Project Agreement; (b) without any limitation or restriction 
upon its obligation under paragraph (a) above, include in the review to be carried out 
on September 30, 1994, an assessment of SNC's maintenance planning and budget 
allocations and the correspondence between such allocations and the actual and timely 
release of the respective allocated funds by the Borrower to SNC; and (c) if, as a 
result of any of the above reviews, the Association determines that the progress in 
the execution of the Project or in the achievement of the objectives of the Project is 
not satisfactory, the Borrower shall promptly take,
or cause to be taken, all such remedial action, satisfactory to the Association, as 
shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or for the achievement 
of the objectives of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any proposed 
organizational or institutional change in the Borrower's road subsector affecting the 
carrying out of the Project or the activities of SNC, and, except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, shall not make any such change.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the resources and expenditures of SNC in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until one year after the 
Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last disbursement from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
Page  6
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
SNC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that SNC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SNC, or for the deprivation of, 
or changes in, any of its functions or responsibilities, or for the suspension of its 
operations; and
(d)
the Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the abilility of SNC to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and SNC;
(b)
that organizational changes in SNC, satisfactory to the Association, have 
been adopted by the Borrower; and
(c)
that the Borrower has adopted standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods and works for the Project, satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by SNC, 
and is legally binding upon SNC in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and SNC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SNC in accordance 
with its terms; and
(c)
that the organizational changes and the standard bidding documents 
referred to in Section 6.01 (b) and (d) above, respectively, have been duly adopted.
Page  7
Section 6.03. The date October 14, 1992 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Planning and Coordination of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Coordination
Avenida Arce, 2147
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLANEACION 
3280 - MINCORD
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jorge Crespo Velasco
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  8
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Works:
     (a) under Part A.1       25,000,000        80%
         (i) of the
         Project
     (b) under Part A.1       10,300,000        80%
         (ii) of the
         Project
     (c) under Part B          2,100,000        80%
         of the
         Project
     (d) under Part C          1,800,000        70%
         of the Project
     (e) under Part D.1        1,500,000        70%
         of the Project
(2)  Goods:                                     100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
     (a) traffic               1,000,000
         counters,
         laboratory
         equipment
         and weighing
         scales
     (b) road safety             800,000
         materials
(3)  Consultants'              4,200,000        100%
     services,
     training and
     scholarships
(4)  Procurement               2,200,000        100%
     services
(5)  Unallocated               9,700,000
         TOTAL                58,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
5,860,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after January 1, 1992.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for such expenditures and under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  9
The objectives of the Project, which includes the Road Maintenance Program of 
SNC and is part of the Road Investment Plan of the Borrower, are to reduce vehicle 
operating costs, to improve access to markets, to encourage trade development, to 
improve the road maintenance budget process, management, investment planning and 
operations, to ensure an adequate funding for the maintenance activities of SNC, to 
strengthen the domestic construction industry capacity by having private contractors 
participate in road maintenance works, and to support the proposed transport sector
decentralization being carried out by the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Road Maintenance
 
1.
Periodic maintenance of:
 
(i)
about 780 kilometers of paved roads; and
 
(ii)
about 765 kilometers of gravel roads;
 
including drainage, installation of road signs and other road improvements, and 
routine maintenance activities.
2.
Routine, periodic and emergency maintenance of about 20,500 kilometers of roads, 
including the acquisition and utilization of spare parts, equipment and asphalt 
materials.
Part B:
Bridge Maintenance and Rehabilitation
 
Maintenance and rehabilitation of about 77 bridges, most of them located in the 
roads included in Part A of the Project.
Part C:
Work Compound and Workshops
 
Improvement of about 11 work compounds, including warehouses, and construction 
of about 16 small workshops to carry out minor repairs and preventive equipment 
maintenance.
Part D:
Equipment
 
1.
Rehabilitation and repair of maintenance equipment.
 
2.
Acquisition and utilization of vehicle axle weighing scales and the 
rehabilitation of control stations.
3.
Acquisition and utilization of about 146 traffic counters and of laboratory 
equipment for improving traffic data and equipping SNC's soil laboratory.
4.
Acquisition and installation of road markings, vertical signals and safety 
barriers.
Part E:
Technical Assistance
 
1.
Strengthening the technical and administrative capabilities of the decentralized 
agencies of the Borrower in charge of road administration.
2.
Carrying out the engineering designs for the roads included in the last two 
years of the Road Maintenance Program.
3.
Carrying out the supervision of the civil works on the periodic road maintenance 
included in Part A.1 of the Project, to provide quality control and ensure compliance 
with bid specifications.
4.
Carrying out of a study to define the appropriate mechanisms to determine the 
standards of road design, the costs of road maintenance and construction and the 
appropriate level and structure of road user charges.
5.
Carrying out of a study assessing the existing capabilities and structure of the 
local construction industry, in order to identify possible management, equipment and 
financial constraints.
Page  10
6.
Carrying out of a training program mainly addressed to potential users of SAMs 
and SAEs and for equipment operators, and provision of scholarships for SNC's 
qualified staff.
7.
Strengthening of the maintenance management and administration capabilities of 
SNC, through the provision of technical assistance and training.
8.
Strengthening of the Project implementation capabilities of UEP through the 
provision of technical assistance.
9.
Services in respect of Parts A, B, C, D and F of the Project, pursuant to 
Section 2.12 (b) of the Project Agreement.
Part F:
Road Safety
 
Acquisition and utilization of road markings and vertical signalling.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
 SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
for withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested; and
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  11
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
