Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4134 - PAK 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Earthquake Emergency Recovery Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR 
 
and  
 
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE 
 
Dated December 22, 2005  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4134 - PAK 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 22, 2005, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) and AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR and 
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE (collectively referred to as the “Project Implementing 
Entities” and individually as the “Project Implementing Entity”) (the “Project Agreement”) in 
connection with the Financing Agreement of same date between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
PAKISTAN (the “Recipient) and the Association (the “Financing Agreement”).  The Association 
and the Project Implementing Entities hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Project 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or the 
General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - PROJECT
 
2.01. 
Each Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project. To this end, each Project Implementing Entity shall carry out its activities under 
the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and 
shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Association and each Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall carry out its activities under the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
TERMINATION 
 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
4.01. 
The Project Implementing Entiti
es’ Representatives are, in the case of AJK, Additional 
Chief Secretary, Planning and Development Department, and in the case of NWFP, the 
Additional Chief Secretary (Development). 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
4.02. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entities’ Addresses are: 
 
For AJK: 
 
Planning and Development Department  
 
Government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir 
 
Muzafarabad 
 
Pakistan 
 
Facsimile: 
 
92-588-10-32512 
 
For NWFP: 
 
Planning and Development Department 
 
Government of North West Frontier Province 
 
Peshawar, Pakistan  
 
Facsimile: 
 
92-91-9210354 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
AGREED at Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Abid Hassan 
 
Acting Country Director 
 
Pakistan 
 
AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR 
 
By /s/ Muhammad Saleem Sethi 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE 
 
By /s/ Syed Manzoor Ali Shah 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Executio
n
of the Project Implementing Entities’ Activities under the Project 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1. 
The governments of NWFP and AJK 
(the “Project Implementing Entities”) shall 
implement the Project in their respective jurisdictions in accordance with the Operations Manual 
and the Environmental and Social Screening and Assessments Framework, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision thereof if, in the 
opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. In implementing their respective activities under the Project, each 
Project Implementing Entity shall work in coordination with ERRA. 
 
2. 
Each Project Implementing Entity shall establish a steering committee (in the case of 
AJK, the “AJK Earthquake Steering Committee” and in the case of NWFP, the “NWFP 
Earthquake Steering Committee”) under the chairmanship of their respective chief 
secretaries/additional chief secretaries. The Steering Committees shall each be responsible for 
overseeing provincial planning for activities under the Project, approving work plans and 
monitoring Project implementation progress within their respective jurisdictions.   
 
3. 
Each Project Implementing Entity shall establish and, throughout implementation of the 
Project, maintain with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association a 
reconstruction agency (in the case of AJK, the “AJK Reconstruction Agency”; and in the case of 
NWFP, the “NWFP Reconstruction Agency”), to oversee the day-to-day coordination, 
monitoring, financial management and reporting, procurement, implementation, and 
administration of their respective activities under the Project. The Reconstruction Agencies shall 
work in close coordination with the relevant line departments, local governments, District 
Reconstruction Units, and private sector/community level entities within their respective 
jurisdictions and in performing their functions shall report to their respective Steering 
Committees and to ERRA on the progress in Project implementation. The Reconstruction 
Agencies shall also be responsible for reviewing work plans received from relevant line 
departments, District Reconstruction Units and private sector/community level entities within 
their respective jurisdictions, and submitting them to their respective Steering Committees for 
approval. 
 
4. 
Each Project Implementing Entity shall establish at the district level, District 
Reconstruction Units in each Affected Area, to support: (i) the preparation of work plans for 
submission to the respective Reconstruction Agencies; (ii) the implementation of small contracts 
in coordination with local governments, line departments and private sector/community level 
entities; and (iii) coordinating the implementation of the Project at each respective district level. 
In carrying out its functions, each District Reconstruction Unit shall report to its respective 
Reconstruction Agency. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
5. 
The Project Implementing Entities shall take steps to ensure that, throughout 
implementation of the Project, adequate levels of staffing are maintained at all levels of Project 
implementation, as needed for the Project and agreed with the Association from time to time. 
 
B. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards 
 
1. 
Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph A.1 above, the Project Implementing 
Entities shall ensure that all civil works under the Project, shall be undertaken in accordance with 
design standards and technical specifications satisfactory to the Association and the relevant 
provisions of the Environmental and Social Screening and Assessments Framework, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such implementation. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entities shall refrain from taking any action which shall 
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the recommendations of the Environmental and 
Social Screening and Assessments Framework. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entities shall ensure that activities financed under the Project 
shall not involve any land acquisition or involuntary resettlement of the local population and/or 
businesses. In the event that any land is required for the Project or any resettlement is to be 
carried out, the Project Implementing Entities shall, in consultation with the Association ensure 
that such land shall be obtained and such resettlement carried out in accordance with plans agreed 
with the Association. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
Each Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project 
within its respective jurisdiction and prepare Project Reports for its respective activities under the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08(b) of the General Conditions and on the 
basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each such Project Report shall cover the period 
of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to ERRA not later than fifteen (15) days after the 
end of the period covered by such report for incorporation and forwarding by the Recipient 
through ERRA to the Association on a quarterly basis, of the overall Project Report.  
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall provide to the Recipient through ERRA not later 
than four (4) months after the Closing Date, for incorporation in the report referred to in  
Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions all such information as the Recipient or the Association 
shall reasonably request for the purposes of such Section. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports; Audits 
 
1. 
Each Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system and 
prepare financial reports in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable 
to the Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of 
the Project Implementing Entity, including the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
its respective activities under the Project. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
2. 
Each Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial reports referred to above 
audited on a regular basis, but at least once every fiscal year, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association. The audited financial reports for each such period shall be furnished not later than 
thirty (30) days after the end of each such period to ERRA for inclusion in the financial 
statements to be submitted by ERRA to the Association in accordance with the Financing 
Agreement. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for each Project Implementing Entities
’
respective 
activities under the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. 
 
