                                              Document o f
                                          The World Bank



                                                                            Report No: T7664-PK




                                        TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                                 FOR A

                                        PROPOSED CREDIT
                           INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR281.8 MILLION
                                (US$400 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                TO THE

                               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                                FORAN

                    EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY CREDIT


                                            December 5,2005




  Energy and Infrastructure Unit
  South Asia RegionalOffice


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                        CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                                        Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (PKR)
                                             PKR 59.7  = US$1(November 2005)

                                       FISCALYEAR:July 1-June 30

                                   ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
ADB        Asian Development Bank                       LIB        Limited InternationalBidding
ADP        Annual Development Plans                     M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
AGP        Auditor General o f Pakistan                 MIS        Management Information System
AJK        Azad Jammu and Kashmir                       MOH        Ministry o f Health
ARI        Acute Respiratory Infection                  NADRA      NationalDatabase and Registration Authority
BHUs       Basic Health Units                           NCB        National Competitive Bidding
C&W        Communication and Works                      NGOs       Non-Governmental Organizations
CAU        Construction Advisory Unit                   NHA        NationalHighway Authority
CCB        Citizen Community Board                      NWFP       North West Frontier Province
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment  PEC        Pakistan Engineering Council
CMU        Concrete Masonry Unit                        PHC        Primary Health Care
CQS        Consultant's Qualification Selection         PHED       Public Health Engineering Department
CSIA       Continuous Social Impact Assessment          PIFRA      Project to Improve Financial Reporting and
DADA       District Area Development Agency                            Auditing
DE0        District Education Officers                   PIHS      Pakistan Integrated Household Survey
DFID       Department for InternationalDevelopment       PMU       Project Management Unit
DOE        Department o f Education                      POS       Partner Organizations
DRUs       District Reconstruction Units                 PPAF      Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
ECOP       Environmental Codes o f Practices             PPRA      Public Procurement Regulatory Authority
EIAs       Environmental Impact Assessments              PWD       Public Works Department
EMG        Emergency Management Group                    QBS       Quality Based Selection
EPA        Environmental Protection Agency               QCBS      Quality and Cost Based Selection
ERC        EmergencyRecovery Credit                      RA        Reconstruction Agency
ERP        Earthquake Recovery Program                   RCC       Reinforced Cement Concrete
ERRA       Earthquake Reconstruction and Rehabilitation  RFPS      Request for Proposals
              Authority                                  R P S     Resettlement Plans
ESSAF      Environmental and Social Screening            SA        Social Assessment
           and Assessment Framework                      SIA       Social Impact Assessment
FBS        Fixed Budget                                  SMEDA      Small and Medium Enterprise Dev. Authority
FHA        Frontier Highway Authority                    sss        Single Source Selection
FMRs       FinancialMonitoring Reports                   TMA       TehsilMunicipal Administration
GDP         Gross Domestic Product                       UN        UnitedNations
GOP         Government o f Pakistan                      UNDAC     UnitedNations Disaster Assessment and
IBRD        InternationalBank for Reconstruction and                  Coordination
              Development                                UNDP      UnitedNations Development Programme
ICB         InternationalCompetitive Bidding             UNESCO    UnitedNations Education, Scientific and
IDA        InternationalDevelopment Association                       Cultural Organization
JBIC       Japan Bank for International Cooperation      UNFPA     UnitedNations PopulationFund
JICA       Japan InternationalCooperation Agency         UNICEF    UnitedNation Children's Fund
LGRDD      Local Government and Rural Development        USAID     UnitedStates Agency for International
               Deptartment                                            Development
LCS        Least Cost Selection                          WAPDA     Water and Power Development Authority
LHW        Lady Health Workers                           WFP       World Food Programme



                                  Vice President    :  Prafkl Pate1
        CountryDirector/Program Coordinator         :  JohnW. WallRobert L.Floyd
                Sector Director/Sector Manager      :  Yusupha B. Crookes/ Sonia H a m m a m
                     Task Team LeaderlAnchor        : ChristophPuschandRaja RehanArshadThomas Buckley

  This emergency project was prepared inparallel with a Preliminary Damage and Needs Assessment which
  was carried outjointly with the Asian Development Bank (ADB).

                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS


PartI.         Background.....................................................................................................      1
Part I1.       Donor ResponseandAssistance......................................................................                   2
Part I11.      WorldBankResponseStrategy.......................................................................                    3
Part IV.       Project Objectives ...........................................................................................      4
PartV.         ProjectDescriptionandComponents..............................................................                       4
Part VI.        SafeguardandFiduciaryPolicies..................................................................                   10
Part VI1.      DisbursementConditions andOther covenants ............................................                             11

                                            APPENDICES

Appendix I: Housing......................................................................................................... 12
Appendix 11:   LivelihoodSupport........................................................................................          21
Appendix 111:  ImportFinancing...........................................................................................         29
Appendix IV:   CapacityBuilding..........................................................................................          38
Appendix V:     Social Protection...........................................................................................      42
Appendix VI:   Health............................................................................................................ 44
Appendix VII:  Education.......................................................................................................   49
Appendix VIII: Roads,Water Supply, andInfrastructure ......................................................                        53
Appendix E:    Agriculture.................................................................................................... 57
Appendix X:    Environmentaland Social ScreeningandAssessmentFramework.,.............63
Appendix XI:   Procurement .................................................................................................. 69
Appendix XII:  FinancialManagement andDisbursement....................................................                             75
Appendix XIII: StatementofLoans andCredits.....................................................................                    85
Appendix XIV:  Pakistanat a Glance......................................................................................           86
Appendix XV:   Map................................................................................................................ 88

FOROFFIcI[AEUSEONLY

This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                 TECHNICAL ANNJZX FORTHE PROPOSED

                           EARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECOVERYCREDIT
                                TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLICOFPAKISTAN


                                                PARTI.BACKGROUND

1.       Overview. On October 8, 2005, at 850 PST, a magnitude 7.6 earthquake occurred in Pakistan,
Afghanistan and India.           The earthquake epicenter was located 100 lulometers north-northeast o f
Islamabad, along a fault associated with the Indian subcontinent moving northward at a rate o f about 40
mdyr and colliding with the Eurasian continent. Tremors were felt across a wide swath o f South Asia,
fi-om central Afghanistan to western Bangladesh. More than 1,000 aftershocks were recorded in the
India-Pakistan Kashmir region, ranging fi-om magnitude 5.0 to 6.0.

2.       The 2005 earthquake i s arguably the most debilitating natural disaster in Palustan's history.
Pakistan-administered Kashmir, lmown as Azad Jammu and Kashmir' (AJK), and the eastern Districts o f
the North West Frontier Province (NWFP) bore the full force o f the earthquake in terms o f number o f
lives lost, injuries sustained, and destruction o f infrastructure and economic assets. In at least three
Districts in AJK and five in NWFP, public and private housing, social service delivery, governance
structures, commerce and communications have been either damaged or destroyed.

3.       The overall loss of public and private assets (direct damage at book value) in the eight most
affected districts i s estimated at Rs. 135.2 billion (US$2.3 billion), and the resulting loss in income
(indirect loss) i s estimated at Rs. 34.2 billion (US$576 million). The level o f direct damage i s higher in
AJK than in NWFP; for AJK, it amounts to Rs. 76.4 billion (US$1.3 billion) and for NWFP, Rs. 56.4
billion. Private housing, with damage calculated at Rs. 61.2 billion (US$1.03 billion), suffered the most
extensive damage, followed by the transport, education, and agriculture and livestock sectors. The impact
o f the earthquake on Pakistan's official GDP (which excludes GDP from AJK) i s expected to be relatively
small, on the order of 0.4 percent. The fiscal deficit o f the Government o f Pakistan (GOP), however, will
be more severely affected. Inthe absence o fany offsetting revenue increases and expenditure reductions,
fiscal deficits duringFY06-OX could increase by as much as 0.6 to one percent o f GDP per year.

4.       According to Government o f Pakistan figures, as o f November 3, approximately 73,000 people
had died and more than 70,000 hadbeen severely injured or disabled. Over 2.8 millionpersons have been
left without shelter, and it i s estimated that about 2.3 million persons are without adequate food. The
earthquake destroyed about 203,600 units o f housing and damaged another 197,000. O f the total housing
stock, 84 percent was damaged or destroyed inAJK and 36 percent was damaged or destroyed inNWFP.
Terrain in affected areas o f both NWFP and AJK i s highly diversified and includes densely populated as
well as rugged mountainous areas comprised o f small scattered rural settlements. Official estimates o f
death and damage therefore remain conservative as more isolated communities inthe earthquake affected
region remain inaccessible, which foreshadows an increase inofficial figures as these areas are reached.

5.        Inaddition to the enormous humantoll, the earthquake and its aftermathwill pose a large cost to
Palustan. The overall cost associated with the earthquake i s estimated at approximately USS5.2 billion,
which includes estimated costs for relief, livelihood support for victims, and reconstruction. The cost o f
reconstruction o f lost assets and restoration o f services i s estimated to be Rs. 208.1 billion (US$3.5


'h   a d Jammu and Kashnir (AX) i s the Pakistan-administered portion of an area over which India and Pakistan
have been in dispute since 1947. Inproviding this fmancing IDA does not intend to make any judgment as to the
legal or other status o f any disputedterritories or to prejudice the final determination o fthe parties' claims.

billion). A substantial portion o f this total relates to housing reconstruction, which will cost an estimated
Rs. 92 billion (US$1.6 billion).

6.        Vulnerable groups, living in inaccessible mountain areas with lower levels o f income and service
provision as compared to the national average, have borne the brunt o f the earthquake's impact. Women
and children made up a large share o f the victims, as many women were caught in houses when the
earthquake struck, and the collapse o f school buildings resulted in the deaths o f many children. Due to
difficulties inaccess, many victims were not rescued or treated intime, and succumbed to their injuries. A
large number o f injured victims will be permanently disabled due to spinal cord injuries, severe head
injuries and injuries to limbs, resulting in a highproportion o f amputations. As i s typically the case with
natural disasters, the poorest and most vulnerable victims--especially unattended children, the disabled,
and the socially marginalized such as lone elderly or single parents-will           need external support to
recover. They are now struggling to rebuild their lives after losing not only family members and loved
ones, but also their homes, assets, and livelihoods. The high death toll and the sheer magnitude o f
devastation inaffected areas have all considerably traumatized those who were affected.

                              PART   n.DONORRESPONSEANDASSISTANCE

7.        When the GOP requested international assistance, the international community was quick to
respond and assistance started arriving within days o f the earthquake. The World Bank announced a
package o f financing o f US$475 million within weeks o f the earthquake.               The United Nations
immediately deployed its Disaster Assessment and Coordination ( W A C ) Team to provide technical
assistance to assess the scale o f the disaster and help manage the international response. The United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) i s helping coordinate relief efforts at both national and local
levels. Other UN specialized agencies such as United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the World
Food Programme (WFP), and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) have also provided
emergency relief assistance.

8.        The UN launched a flash appeal of USS550 million for immediate relief assistance to Pakistan.
The Secretary-General o f the United Nations hosted a Ministerial-level international donor conference in
Geneva, on October 26, 2005 to seek support for the short term relief assistance requirements. On
November 19, 2005, more than eighty-five delegations, representing multilateral, governmental and
international non-governmental organizations, convened in Islamabad to pledge financial and in-kind
support to the Government o f Pakistan's reconstruction and rehabilitation program.           The Secretary-
General o f the United Nations participated in the conference and reinforced the global initiative to
mobilize and boostresources for the medium to longer term reconstructionandrehabilitationprogram.

9.        The Islamabad conference provided delegates with an opportunity to review and discuss the joint
Asian Development Bank and World Bank Preliminary Damage and Needs Assessment as well as the
Government's strategy o f `Building Back Better,' an effort to improve upon pre-existing systems and
institutions. At the close o f the one day conference, the Government o f Pakistan had secured US$5.9
billion in pledges, ranging from US$300,000 to US$1 billion.                  Of the total amount pledged,
approximately US$2 billion was ingrant support while US$ 3.9 billion was inthe form o f concessional or
soft loans.

10.      The pledged assistance spanned a broad range o f sectors.         Larger donors such as the Asian
Development Bank, World Bank, International Monetary Fund, Islamic Development Bank, Japan, Saudi
Arabia, and U S A pledged support to the social sectors, infrastructure, communications, agriculture and
livelihoods. Other major contributors including China, Iran, Turkey, EU, UK, France, UAE,Kuwait and
Germany pledged support to areas as diverse as education, health, housing, agriculture, private sector
development, livelihoods, communications and infrastructure. Major donors have also assured assistance
for the most vulnerable groups, including women, children and persons disabled by the earthquake, and


                                                        2

efforts to improve the capacity o f institutions charged with championing and implementing the
reconstructionand rehabilitation agenda.

                                 PART III.WORLDBANKRESPONSE STRATEGY

11.      At the request o fthe GOP, a mission ledby the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the World
Bank conducted a preliminary damage and needs assessmenta2 The objective o f this joint mission-
which took place from October 24 -November 12,2005-was              to estimate the damage and reconstruction
costs o f the earthquake, in cooperation with the two agencies and in coordination with the Government,
development partners, civil society, and other stakeholders. Inparallel, the team was asked to assess the
emerging needs of the affected communities to be reflected in the medium to longer term reconstruction
and recovery phases following the initial relief efforts. Thus the assessment aimed to provide decision-
makers and stakeholders with a quantitative basis on which to design a comprehensive reconstruction
strategy and to request assistance. The assessment process was also coordinated with the agencies o f the
UnitedNations (UN),international organizations, andbi-lateral donor organizations.

12.      The Bank i s playing a key role in helping the Government o f Pakistan deal with the immediate
consequences o f the disaster and inassisting inlonger term reconstructionand rehabilitation efforts while
helping to safeguard implementation o f the ongoing poverty reductionprogram. The Bank has pledged to
provide financing commensurate with need in the context o f the results o f the Damage and Needs
Assessment and in coordination with the efforts o f other development partners. The Bank has already
approved an initial response o f US$475 million, consisting o f US$440 million o f additional financing for
ongoing operations and US$35 million o f reallocation o f funds within existing projects3. Of this amount,
US$200 million was provided as budget support to help meet immediate financing needs. The additional
financing and restructuring will support restoration o f vital economic and social infrastructure, including
roads, highways, health and education facilities, village level infrastructure, water and sanitation, and
housing.

13.     To further support the emergency recovery and reconstruction effort, IDA proposes to make
available US$400 million through an Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC) for support over a three year
period. The Government o f Pakistan's program o f earthquake-related reconstruction i s by definition
multi-sectoral and includes, among others, housing reconstruction, livelihood support, import financing,
and capacity building. As detailed below, IDA would provide support to activities in these areas, in
addition to making funds available for any financing gaps identified in other sectors, including social
protection, health, education, agriculture, and roads, water supply and other infrastructure.

14.     Mitigation and Preparedness for Future Natural Hazards. The ERC focuses on Pakistan's
urgent recovery needs after the earthquake.           By building local capacities through its decentralized
implementation strategy and technical assistance components, and by improving the technical standards
for housing, it will improve the preparedness and reduce the vulnerability o f communities inPakistan to
future natural disasters, such as earthquakes.        Given its social and economic vulnerability to natural
disasters, it i s essential that Pakistan strengthen its approach to hazard risk management. Inaddition, the
capacity building component supports Pakistan's efforts to develop a strategic approach to hazard risk
management based on five key pillars: risk identification, risk reduction, capacity building, emergency
preparedness, and risk transfer mechanisms, to achieve a sustainable recovery program and build in-
country capacity for hazard riskmanagement.



  Pakistan 2005 Earthquake: Preliminary Damage and Needs Assessment, IDMSecM2005-0588, November 18,
2005.
 Pakistan: WorldBank's Response to the Earthquake Emergency (SecM2005-0533[IDASecM2005-0517]), October
19,2005 andPakistan: Earthquake Restructuring and Additional Financing, R2005-0242,November21, 2005.


                                                         3

                                      PARTIV. PROJECTOBJECTIVES

15.      The project objectives are to support the efforts o f the Government o f Pakistan to:

        (i)      Reduce the immediate suffering resulting from the effects o f the earthquake and restore
                 livelihoods destroyed by the earthquake;

        (ii)     Restore basic services to the affected populationandrebuild public infrastructure; and

        (iii)    Start the recovery and reconstruction process.

                            PART  v. PROJECT DESCRIPTION COMPONENTS
                                                                 AND

16.      The following paragraphs describe areas o f support that are in urgent need o f financing. More
details on each o f these areas may be found in the Appendices to this report. However, the indicated
amounts at this stage are notional, and the financing available for different sectors i s changing constantly.
As a development partner, IDA stands ready to be flexible about the areas o f needthat we finance, since
our primary concern i s that the overall needs should be met, and met on the most favorable terms
possible. IDA resources would therefore be available to address any o f the needs described in the
A D B W o r l d Bank joint Damage and Needs Assessment. The notional allocation among the proposed
project components outlined below will be reviewed regularly and adjusted in order to direct resources to
the highest priority activity based on need and availability o f financing. While it i s anticipated that the
recovery and reconstruction needs for social protection, health, education, agriculture, and roads, water,
and infrastructure will mostly be financed by other development partners, IDA funds would be used, as
outlinedunder Contingency Arrangements below, iffinancing gaps are identified.

17.      The ERC would be premised on the need to rebuild houses, restore livelihoods through income
transfers to the most affected households, finance critical imports, and augment capacity. The proposed
activities complement those financed through the additional financing for ongoing projects provided
under the initial response package. Proposed assistance to the agriculture, road and water sectors would
complement this and support the resumption o f livelihoods in the most remote and poorest earthquake-
affecteddistricts. Furthermore, the revival o f the public health and education systems would complement
the main project objectives o f improved livelihoods and poverty alleviation in earthquake-affected areas,
and special efforts would be made to protect the most vulnerable populations. The likely sub-components
for these activities are discussed inmore detail below.

Housing(US$220 million)

18.      This component will support the Government's homeowner-driven housing reconstruction
program that was recently launched.         The program i s guided by a set o f principles, including the
promotion o f hazard-resistant construction standards and design; rebuilding o f houses in-situ;ensuring o f
owner-driven rebuilding with technical assistance, training, and supervision; utilization o f easily
accessible materials and familiar methods in rebuilding; limited relocation o f settlements only when
necessary; application o f limited and strategic urban re-planning; offering o f a uniform assistance package
that i s not compensation-based; coordination o f multiple reconstruction initiatives and standards for
equity; and the linking o f housing to livelihoods and infrastructure rehabilitation.

19.      IDA financing for the housing sector would be provided for: (a) housinggrants for reconstruction
o f destroyed homes with new seismic resistant core units and the restoration and strengthening o f
damaged homes to seismically acceptable standards, with eligibility determinedby a detailed Damage and
Eligibility Survey; and (b) technical assistance and capacity building to support the Earthquake
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Authority (ERRA) and provincial and local governments in overall
project management, reporting, monitoring and evaluation, and compliance with the social and


                                                        4

environmental framework, development o f a grievance redressal mechanism, and other activities.
Through the housing component, IDA financing will fund the reconstruction and restoration o f
approximately 87,000 units, which represents 20-25 percent o f the total housing reconstruction needs.
Use o f IDA resources for housing reconstruction cash grants requires a waiver to OP 12.00
(Disbursement). Management has granted this waiver. Use o f IDA resources for housing reconstruction
cash grants requires a waiver to OP 12.00 (Disbursement). Management has granted this waiver.

20.      Reconstruction Grants o f Rs. 175,000 per unit will be disbursed in four tranches, while
Restoration and Strengthening Grants o f Rs. 75,000 per unit will be disbursed in one tranche.          The
reconstruction and restoration activities will be owner-driven, with households utilizing their own labor,
hiring trained craftsmen, and receiving technical assistance. Disbursements will be made subject to
verification o f progress and compliance with seismic-resistant standards.

Livelihood Support (vS$SS million)

21.      The strategy for livelihood support i s geared towards the dual objectives o f protecting the most
vulnerable households in the short-term through the provision o f cash grants, and rejuvenating economic
activity by reviving small businesses andreplacing assets lost inagriculture and livestock. The livelihood
component will support this strategy by providing cash grants for the neediest households. Provided
monthly in a fixed amount, the grants can be implemented quickly to effectively protect vulnerable
populations. They also afford recipient households flexibility to satisfy their needs, while helping to
regenerate local economies in affected areas through the creation o f purchasing power. Commencement
of grant provision i s expected inmidto late January 2006, by which time the immediate relief operations
and the movement o f populationto relief camps and temporary shelters are expected to stabilize, and will
continue for a period o f six months.        The viability o f other forms o f livelihood support, such as
microfinance and grants for micro-entrepreneurs and cash for work, will be assessed over time through
appropriate pilot programs. A waiver to OP 12.00 (disbursements) and OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery
Assistance) i s required to allow use o f IDA for cash grants including livelihood support. Management
has granted this waiver.

22.      The cash grant program will consist o f monthly grants o f Rs. 3,000 per household - an amount
that i s considered sufficient to achieve minimum basic needs, taking into account the continuing
availability o f some food relief. Eligibility will be extended to households that have experienced damage
to their primary housing unit, shop or business, have suffered the death o f an adult householdmember, or
who have lost major livestock. Preference will be given to eligible households with a highproportion o f
dependents, such as the disabled, elderly, children, and injured.        The total cost for the program i s
estimated at $85 million for a target population o f around 250,000 households, assuming a 13 percent
overhead cost for implementation and monitoring.

23.      Given the urgent need to initiate the program, households eligible for the first round o f payments
will be identified using existing information collected in affected areas by governments, after assessing
the quality and coverage o f such information. Final lists o f eligible households for the first payment will
be determined by Union Council level committees through open community meetings. A comprehensive
database o f affected households will be developed by end-January, which will be used to refine the
eligibility list for the first payment and distribute subsequent payments. The grants will be issued by the
Revenue Department and delivered through a combination o f banks and post offices, depending on what
i s easily accessible in specific areas, using government issued identity cards to verify identities and
domicile.

24.      The implementation of the program will be coordinated at the district level, with active
participation o f the revenue officials below district level and Union Councils. A Union Council level
committee will facilitate community driven identification o f eligible households. Grievances and appeals


                                                       5

will be handled by district level officials.      Provincial and federal governments will provide policy
guidance and overall coordination, and will monitor the progress in implementation. Reconstruction
Agencies (RAs) inNWFP and AJK will assist each government in carrying out the above functions. The
program will also be subject to regular monitoring and financial audit after eachroundo fpayment.

ImportFinancing(US$S5 million)

25.     Due to rapidly increasing imports, Pakistan's balance o f payment had been under considerable
pressure even before the earthquake. Reconstruction and rehabilitation o f earthquake affected areas are
likely to create an additional demand for imports o f fuel, steel, cement and other related commodities and
services, which are estimated at around US$1billion during the next two and a half years. This, in the
absence o f additional donor financing, will lead to further deterioration in the country's balance o f
payment and a further reduction inofficial foreign exchange reserves.

26.     The Government has requested that a portion o f the proposed Credit should be used for quick-
disbursing assistance to partially finance the imports o f items required for reconstruction and
rehabilitation activities. Since the Asian Development Bank (ADB) i s also providing quick-disbursing
assistance, this component will extend US$85 million in quick-disbursing assistance which will be used
only to finance imports identified as necessary for an effective recovery program. These imports will
help in early recovery o f the affected areas by keeping the supplies and prices o f these commodities at
adequate and appropriate levels. The Government, World Bank and ADB have agreed on a Positive List
of permissible imports for financing under the quick-disbursing component o f the ERC.

27.     This component will reimburse funds (up to the extent o f the size o f the component) on the basis
o f expenditures incurredby the Government on reconstruction-related imports, which will be determined
on the basis o f import Bills o f Entry, and will provide foreign exchange for private sector imports. As
such, this component might also retroactively finance a part o f the bill o f these commodities which have
been imported into the country between October 8, 2005 and the date o f signing o f the DCA for this
operation. Agreed procedures set out in Appendix XI and XI1will govern the procurements from this
component o f the ERC. The funds from this component will be disbursed to finance eligible imports on
the basis o fquarterly Financial MonitoringReports as indicatedinthe FMand Disbursement Appendix.

Capacity Building(US$lO million)

28.     It is essentialthat existing implementation capacity o f the Government o f Pakistanbe augmented
to meet the heightened demand o f the reconstructionand recovery effort and to ensure that the quality o f
implementation i s maintained. Moreover, the magnitude o f current disaster calls for major capacity
enhancement o f institutions and systems to manage and minimize the adverse impacts o f such disasters in
the future. This component intends to expand the current capabilities at all IeveIs o f government-
ERRA, NWFP/AJK ReconstructionAgencies, District ReconstructionUnits (DRUs), provincial/district
line agencies and departments-across          all sectors to effectively plan, implement, and supervise
reconstruction activities across all sectors and levels.

29.     The activities financed under the component include:         (i)provision of human resources and
consultancy inputs at the federal, provincial, and district levels; (ii)
                                                                      continuous social impact assessments
and third party evaluations; (iii) design and delivery o f training programs on financial management and
streamlined implementation processes; (iv) the provision of information technology connectivity and the
establishment and/or improvement o f management information systems (MIS); (v) facilities upgrade,
including infrastructure, office supplies andneeded vehicles; and, developing a communications strategy.

30.     Furthermore, given its social and economic vulnerability to natural disasters, it i s essential that
Pakistan improves its approach to hazard risk management, and shifts focus from emergency response to



                                                       6

disaster prevention, through a comprehensive hazard risk management approach. The capacity building
program in this regard will support the following key pillars: (i)      disaster risk assessment; (ii)seismic
safety o f buildings; (iii)
                          emergency preparedness andresponse; and (iv) catastrophe risk financing.

ContingencyArrangements

31.      Iffinancing gaps are identified, IDA fundswould be usedto support additional sectors, including
social protection, health, education, agriculture, and roads, water supply, and other infiastructure. The
following activities would be eligible for IDA financing.

Social Protection

32.      The earthquake has devastated one o f the poorest and most vulnerable areas o f the country,
leaving many people injured, disabled, traumatized, orphaned, and unemployed. This component targets
key vulnerable groups, namely unattended children and orphans, the physically disabled, persons
suffering from trauma, and the temporarily unemployed.

33.      Under this component, services that might be provided to vulnerable groups include: (1)
community-based psycho-social support (trauma counseling), medical and social rehabilitation services,
and building social awareness o f disability; (2) placement and follow-up care for orphans and unattended
children; and (3) temporary employment for vulnerable groups.

Health

34.      This component would aim to restore equitable access to a better performing health care delivery
system for the population living in the earthquake affected districts. The earthquake caused significant
damage to the health sector, resulting ina complete breakdown o f the health system and a total disruption
o fprimary and secondary health care service provision inthe affecteddistricts. There i s an urgent needto
revitalizeprimary and secondary care service provision to the affectedpopulation, including the displaced
population, to reduce vulnerabilities and saves lives while the system i s revitalized and reconstructed.
The needs o f the health sector for the short to medium are substantial, but there i s strong commitment
from development partners to finance these needs.

35.      The main activities include: a) the revitalization o f primary health care services and the provision
o f secondary care services during the transition period, including contracting NGOs to manage primary
health care services; b) the reconstruction and re-equipment o f partially or fully damaged health
institutions with a focus on civil hospitals, rural health centers and basic health units; and c) technical
assistance to strengthen management, planning, and monitoring o f the recovery effort, including sentinel
surveillance inAJK and NWFP.

36.      The lead agency for the implementation o f the proposed components will be the Department o f
Health o f the Government o f AJK and the Provincial and District Departments o f Health in NWFP.
Technical support will be provided by RAs/DRUs for ensuring seismic resistant construction and will
include the provision o f policy guidelines to the Departments o f Health.

Education

37.      This component would address the most urgent requirement for providing transitional access to
safe educational services at all levels. The development objective i s to restore equitable access to higher
quality education through improved design o f physical learning spaces, social and physical access,
teacher development, and capacity development of the district education offices for improved service
delivery.   Financing would be provided for consultancy services to improve the design o f physical



                                                       7

learning spaces, the provision o f technical advice for community construction, the monitoring o f
educational outcomes, student and staff counseling, teacher training, provision o f books and reading
materials, purpose built krniture, and civil works.

38.      Decentralizedimplementation arrangements would be sought, emphasizing effective coordination
and monitoring and a greater role for the lowest tiers o f government, the private sector and civil society.
A federal Government-level body such as ERRA would supervise the reconstruction efforts and provide
overall policy guidance. The education departments at provincial and district levels would play a leading
role inthe planning and monitoring o f recovery and reconstructiono f the education system. In addition,
communities would assist inthe construction of primary and middle school buildings.

Roads, Water Supply and other Infrastructure

39.      This component would complement the World Bank's four ongoing projects4, which have been
recently restructured to provide additional earthquake emergency financing by covering any existing
financing gaps in overall infrastructure needs. Eligible sub-sectors under the component include: (i)
provincial highways and roads; (ii)       district roads; (iii) sub-district and community roaddearthen paths;
(iv) water supply & sanitation; (v) public buildings across different sectors such as education, health,
works & services, and water supply & sanitation; and (vi) community infrastructure such as community
buildings,irrigation channels, etc.

40.      Implementation o f the infrastructure component would generally be based, and build, upon the
subproject identification, implementation, institutional,             procurement, financial management and
social/environmental safeguards arrangements established as part o f the implementation arrangements
agreed with the Government.

Agriculture

41.      This component would rebuild agriculture and rural livelihoods through selected quick impact
activities to help farmers revive their crop and livestock production systems and restore some o f the most
essential agriculture support services. Financing might be provided for: (a) the provision o f seeds,
fertilizer and tools for the Kharif 2006 season; provision o f animal feed and shelter for livestock;
restocking o f feed and fodder supplies; and, repair and rehabilitation of essential communal infrastructure,
particularly irrigation and field terraces; (b) material, equipment and facilities; repair of nurseries and
planting material for fruit and timber trees; and repair and reconstruction o f buildings for research and
immediate office needs; and (c) the strengthening o f existing coordination, monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms at all levels o f implementation.

42.      The reconstruction andrecovery strategy for the agriculture sector requires that the affectees who
have relocated outside the affected area be encouraged to return to their normal abode and resume a
largely pre-earthquake style o f life. The strategy should focus on immediate support to affectees to plant
wheat crop by providing support including tools and implements, seed, fertilizer, critical repairs to
irrigation structures, and assistance inbuilding shelters to salvage remaining livestock inventory. Inthe
medium term, support would be needed for replanting fruit trees, rebuilding terraces, replenishing
livestock inventory, rehabilitating productive infrastructure, and reconstructing laboratories and offices
for extension and research and for agriculture, livestock, and irrigation departments.



  Four emergency additional financing and reallocation projects have been approved, and include additional
financing  of: (a) the Highways Rehabilitation; (b) Second Poverty Alleviation Fund; (c) the AJK Community
Infrastructure and Services project; and (c) the restructuring of the NWFP On-Farm Water Management and Second
Community Infrastructure projects.


                                                            8


services for specific components would be performed by these professional bodies in close coordination
with relevant line departments and local governments. At the district level, District Reconstruction Units
(DRUs) would be established to support the preparation o f plans and implementation o f small contracts,
incoordinationwith district governments, district-level line agencies andPartner Organizations (POs).

                             PART VI. SAFEGUARD AND FIDUCIARY        POLICIES

I.EnvironmentalandSocialSafeguards

45.      An Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF; the "Framework")
has been prepared to undertake environmental impact assessments (EIAs) for all rehabilitation and
reconstruction activities and ensure that adverse environmental and social impacts are minimized, and
appropriate mitigation measures are included in sub-project design. The Framework will assess the
institutional capacity to undertake environmental and social assessments, the Government's system for
review and approval o f EIAs, and the capacity to monitor the implementation o f environmental mitigation
and social safeguard measures.

46.      The principles governing social and environmental management will be applied according to the
Framework and are applicable to all activities financed by IDA, including: (i)    key policy principles for
social and environmental management; (ii)tools to screen sub-projects for significant social/
environmental impacts and mitigate such impacts; (iii) procedures to ensure that these principles and tools
are appropriately applied; and (iv) guidelines for capacity buildingand monitoring. The Framework will
be operationalized through the proposed implementation, capacity building, and monitoring arrangements
o f the project.

47.      Sub-projects will be screened to ensure that the environmental and social risks are adequately
addressed through the application o f standardized guidelines and codes o f practice. The emergency
nature o f the proposed relief and reconstruction operations and the related need to provide immediate
assistance i s recognized. At the same time, the Framework will ensure due diligence in managing
potential environmental and social risks. Investments which are subject to Bank safeguard policies on
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50) and Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37) are not eligible
under the ERC.

48.      The application o f all social safeguards to specific cases will be informed by the initial Social
Assessment (SA) which will also serve as a baseline. A continuous social impact assessment (CSIA) will
facilitate the articulation o f community perceptions, grievances and feedback vis-a-vis identification o f
beneficiaries for the housing and livelihood components and the mobilization o f resources. The CSIA
will help monitor the social dimensions o f the program and flag potential risks.          Through direct
interaction with beneficiary communities it will carry out an independent evaluation o f program
implementation and distribution o f program benefits. The CSIA will monitor the impact o f the program
and help to initiate necessary mitigation measures.

11.Procurement andFinancialManagement

49.      In both the preparation and implementation of this program, it will be ensured that proper
management and fiduciary arrangements are in place. Bank experts have been closely working with the
implementing agencies to develop procurement and financial management arrangements.              For more
details on these arrangements, see Appendix XI: Procurement and Appendix XII: Financial Management
and Disbursements.




                                                     10

                PARTWI. DISBURSEMENT          CONDITIONS AND OTHER COVENANTS

50.  Conditions for Disbursements

     a) No disbursements shall be made for cash grants for livelihood support unless GOP has
        furnished to IDA evidence o f Acceptable Assistance Criteria.

    b) No disbursements shall be made for housing grants unless GOP has adopted technical
        guidelines and a training program satisfactory to IDA, and has appointed a program manager
        to handle the implementation o fthe housing component.

51.  Dated Covenants

     a) GOP shall no later then four (4) months after effectiveness o fthe FinancingAgreement adopt
        an Operations Manual satisfactory to IDA.

    b) GOP shall no later than sixty (60) days after effectiveness o f the Financing Agreement
        appoint financial management, accounting and procurement staff in such numbers and
        qualifications as mutually agreed between GOP and IDA.

     c) GOP shall prepare a Procurement Plan comprising: (i) respect to activities already
                                                                     with
        identified to be financed under the Project, the procurement methods and thresholds for such
        activities, no later than sixty (60) days after the Effectiveness Date; and (ii)
                                                                                       with respect to
        activities yet to be identified, the procurement methods and thresholds for such activities, no
        later than sixty (60) days after the date on which such activities are approved to be financed
        bythe Association.




                                                  11

                                          APPENDIXI:HOUSING


A.      Overviewof Damage

1.      The October 8, 2005 earthquake left an estimated 2.8 million people in need o f shelter at the
onset o f a harsh winter, in a rural, difficult to access, terrain. GOP census data indicates that about
787,000 housingunitswere inthe affected area, and that these were predominantlyrural.

2.      In the affected areas, per the Preliminary Damage and Needs Assessment Report, 203,579
housing units were completely destroyed in AJK and NWFP, while 196,574 were damaged to various
degrees. These include 116,572 and 88,368 respectively inAJK and 87,007 and 108,205 respectively in
NWFP, and represent 84% o f the total housing stock inthe affected districts o f AJK, and 36% o f NWFP
(Table 1).

              Table 1: SummarybyProvinceof Total, DestroyedandDamagedHousingUnits


             District                YO
                                   Urban      Units       Destroyed     D

  AJK Affected Districts
  Muzaffarabad                       12      123,679        69,943       28,278        98,221       79
  Bagh                                5       59,623        33,806       21,208        55,014       92
  Poonch                             11       61,678        12,823       38,882        51,705       84
  AJK Total                          10      244,980       116,572       88,368       204,940       84
  NWFP Affected Districts
  Shangla                             0       67,003        15,661        10,821       26,482       40
  Mansehra                           14      203,109        31,323       43,282        14,605       37
  Kohistan                            0       74,087         4,350        18,395       22,745       31
  Abbottabad                         19      153,819         6,961       27,05 1       34,012       22
  Batamam                             0       44,585        28,712        8,657        37,369       84
  NWF'P Total                        11      542,603        87,007      108,206       195,213       36
  AJK +NWFP                          10      787,583       203,579      196,575       400,154       51



3.      The typical home inthe affected areas houses 6-7 persons, i s 400 sq. ft. and consists o f one or two
main rooms, a veranda and a bath and kitchen which may not be attached. A Katcha (non-permanent)
house will typically have mud or stone rubble walls with a flat mud roof supported on pole beams. A
Pucca (permanent) house will have stone rubble or fired brick masonry walls with sand cement mortar
and a low pitched sheet metal or reinforced concrete (RCC) flat slab roof. More recently, hollow cavity
concrete masonry unit (CMU) block i s being used for walls. Virtually none o f the housing in affected
areas has seismic considerations in design.         Compounding this i s the generally poor quality o f
construction and maintenance.

B.      Critical Issues

4.      There are several critical issues affecting the housingreconstructioneffort:

  (a)   Appropriate institutional arrangementsfor housing reconstruction: The housingreconstruction
        activity will be spread over a vast area o f topographically difficult terrain. Moreover, the scale o f
        the reconstruction activity will be unprecedented. Under the normal pre-quake conditions, it i s
        estimated that a total o f approximately 6,500 pucca housing units were constructed every year in
        the eight effected districts.         If the estimated 400,000          affected units   are to be
        reconstructedrestored over the next three years, this would translate into at least a 10-fold



                                                       12

        increase inthe annualpucca housing construction activity in the affected districts. It would also
        require building to significantly higher construction standards. The credible administration and
        monitoring o f such a gigantic task will be a major challenge.

        Beneficiary identification: A detailed housing damage assessment and social verification i s
        urgently needed to provide a credible basis for compensating affectedhouseholds.

        Identifying hazardous sites and suitable alternates for relocation:             Preliminary evidence
         suggests that some sites in the affected areas are not suitable for rebuilding in-situ due to
        vulnerability to seismic, soil, or landslide hazards. The prompt identification o f such areas on
        transparent technical grounds i s critical, along with identification o f suitable alternative sites for
        relocation o f affected households. This will depend on availability o f land, and will need to
        consider accessibility to infrastructure, sources o f livelihood, and social services.

        Inculcating seismically acceptable designs and construction practices: As some rebuilding
        activity has already commenced in view o f the approaching winter, there i s an urgent need to
        provide guidance on seismic resistant designs andconstructionpractices.

        Settlement and documentation of land claims whereproperty records have been lost: Loss o f
        land records can be a significant source o f social risk associated with housing recovery. Initial
         assessments suggest that none o f the District Revenue Offices in the eight affected districts has
        been damaged to the extent that land records cannot be salvaged intact. They will, however, need
        to be retrieved quickly, before the winter rains and snows cause their complete deterioration.
        Where records have been lost and are not retrievable even through backups, other community-
        based evidence mechanisms will need to be deployed for re-mapping o f parcel boundaries;
        certification o f redefined boundaries; landlordtenant claims; previously unregistered land;
        allocation o f community land; identification o frightfulheirs; and claims o f informal settlers.

         Over-exploitation of building materials: A key environmental risk i s the threat o f over-
         exploitation o f natural buildingmaterials including timber and stone, which may be conveniently
        located but serve vital environmental functions such as slope stabilization and soil protection.
         Strict policing o f a highly dispersed owner-driven process would be difficult.

         Transparency and accountability in reconstruction: Grant eligibility, reconstructionplans, and
        implementation modes and procedures, will have to be as widely publicized and disseminated as
        possible. The absence o f such transparency will affect the success o f all reconstruction efforts.
         Ofparticular concern are the listing o f beneficiaries, arrangements for and actual disbursement o f
        reconstructionassistance, andthe monitoring o f progress and quality inreconstruction.

        Inaccessibility and Vulnerability: Affectees residing inrelatively inaccessible areas or belonging
        to socially disadvantaged groups will be at a risk o f being left out and not benefiting from the
        compensation packages. A concerted effort will be needed to mitigate this risk.

        Housing Reconstruction Strategy

        The proposed housing reconstruction strategy i s based on key principles derived from
international post-disaster reconstructionexperience and consideration o f the Pakistani context.


Principle 1: Promote hazard-resistant construction standards and designs.                   The collapse o f
                 approximately 200,000 buildings, predominantly housing, was due largely to the lack o f
                 any seismic consideration in their design and their poor quality o f construction and


                                                      13

                maintenance. Reconstruction o f affected areas should emphasize seismic safety and
                 improvedconstruction quality.

Principle2:     Rebuild in-situ. Most households should be allowed to rebuild on their original plot o f
                 land. This in-situapproach minimizes both resistance o f the population at attempts at
                relocation, as well as demands on GOP to sustain livelihoods in new locations and to
                buildnewphysical and social infrastructure. It also reduces demands on, and costs to, the
                 GOP to identify and acquire land andresolve issues o f land ownership and availability

Principle3:     Ensure rebuilding is owner-driven. Homeowners should be in charge o f rebuilding o f
                their own homes.       This will however require technical assistance, supervision, and
                 comprehensive training programs to ensure quality o f construction.

Principle4:     Rebuild with familiar methods and easily accessible materials. To be sustainable,
                promotion o f hazard resistant standards and designs must relate to use o f readily
                available materials, familiar modes o f construction, and cultural preferences indesign.

Principle5:     Relocate settlements only when necessary. Relocation o f some settlements might be
                 inevitable. These should be limited to circumstances where the risks o f exposure or
                 contributory effects to hazards remain very high due to topography, soil conditions, and
                 other environmental and risk factors.

Principle6:     Ensure urban re-planning is limited and strategic: Such attempts should not be
                 city-wide but instead focus on pockets o f strategic urban areas.

Principle7:      Offer uniform assistance package that is not compensation-based. Compensating
                households proportionate to the replacement value o f their loss would increase the
                 GOP's liability significantly and encourage litigation.

Principle8:      Coordinate multiple reconstruction initiatives and standardsfor equity. It i s crucial
                that the GOP coordinates multiple reconstruction initiatives to ensure full spatial
                 coverage and reduce the risks o f beneficiary double counting or any affected household
                being missed.

Principle9:     Link housing to livelihoods and infrastructure rehabilitation. The sustainability o f
                housing solutions offered by the GOP will be largely determined by complementary
                efforts to restore livelihoods and rehabilitate physical and social infrastructure.


D.       ProposedProgramComponents

6.       The Government o f Palustan (GOP) has already established a housing assistance program
whereby every household with a destroyed house will be given a Rs. 175,000 compensation grant. Its
first tranche o f Rs. 25,000 i s currently being disbursed in the affected districts, and i s meant to cover
immediate shelter needs o f the affected families. The remaining funds are to be disbursed in three more
tranches for reconstruction o f permanent housing. The ERC will support the GOP's efforts through the
proposed program components which include: (a) cash grants for homeowner-driven housing
reconstruction and restoration; and (b) technical assistance and capacity building. As implementation
begins, resources can be reallocated among these sub-components based on their level o f implementation
efficiency and changing demand.




                                                      14

                           Table 2: HousingReconstructionProgram(US$ millions)




   a.     Reconstruction ofPermanentHousing               784.91      170.93
          (266,331 units)
                                                                                     60.00"       662.68 *
         Restoration & Strengtheningof                    147.77       39.07
         PermanentHousing(109,68 1units)
   b.     TA and CapacityBuilding                          30.00       10.00          15.00       , 5.00

         *TOTAL                                           962.68      220.00         75.00          667.68
          Representsboth Reconstruction and Restoration Costs

7.       The reconstructioncosts are estimated at US$784.91 million, based on a grant o f Rs. 175,000 per
replacement house, consisting o f a core unit o f 250 sq. ft. and built to seismically acceptable structural
standards. The restoration and strengthening costs are estimated to be US$147.77 million, based on a
grant o f Rs. 75,000 per damaged unit. The number o f housing units to be reconstructed or restored i s
based on the number of units destroyed or damaged respectively, as assessedby the Preliminary Damage
and Needs Assessment. However, it has been assumed that for damaged katcha units, approximately 85%
would have suffered structural damage beyond repair and have thus been added to the number o f units to
be reconstructed. It i s also assumed that 15% of the damagedpucca houses would require minor repair
not eligible for compensation, and have thus been excluded fiom the total number o f units to be restored.

(i) CashGrants for HousingReconstructionandRestoration(US$210 million)

8.       This sub-component will provide grants for reconstruction or restoration o f affected housing
units. The grants would finance: (a) replacement of a destroyed house with a new seismic resistant core
unit o f 250 sq.ft. covered area, or (b) restoration and strengthening o f a damaged house to seismically
acceptable standards.

9.       The rebuilding would be owner-driven - a mode well suited to the mainly rural affectees. The
grants would be releasedintranches, linkedto stages o f construction and adoption o f seismically resistant
standards. Inthis scheme, households will be able to utilize their own labor, hire trained craftsmen, and
receive technical assistance from a reputable partner organizatioflG0 to reconstruct or rehabilitate their
houses.

10.      The eligibility criteria for these cash grants would be: (i)allpucca houses with structural damage
beyond economic repair or structurally damaged katcha houses will be eligible for a Rs. 175,000
Reconstruction Grant; (ii)all pucca houses with repairable structural damage will be eligible for a
Rs.75,000 Restoration and Strengthening Grant. Housing units with non-structural damage will not be
eligible for any compensation. ERRA i s currently launching a detailed Damage and Eligibility Survey
which will categorize housing units in the affected areas by the extent o f damage and develop lists for
each. Households who: (i)     are deemed eligible; and (ii) confirmed to be owners or residents who have
                                                              are
agreement with owner to rebuild house, will benefit from the above Housing Grants. Owners will be
eligible for a limit o f one grant. The final list o f beneficiaries will be determined by local verification
process. The Reconstruction Grant will be disbursed infour tranches: (i)     Rs. 25,000 i s currently provided
by the Government to affectedhouseholds to address their temporary shelter needs. Materials purchased
through this grant can be reused for the permanent reconstruction; (ii)   Rs. 75,000 as a mobilization grant;
(iii) 25,000 atcompletionuptoplinthlevel; and(iv)Rs.50,000 atcompletionofwalls; however,
     Rs.
further technical inspection would follow after the completion o f the roof.           The Restoration and
Strengthening Grant will be disbursed in one tranche.            Disbursement o f grants will be subject to


                                                         15

verification o f progress and compliance with seismic-resistant standards.       Funds will be channeled
through the Bank branches at the local/community levels.

11.     Use o f IDA resources for housing reconstruction cash grants requires a waiver to OP 12.00
(Disbursement). Under OP12.00, a waiver i s required for cash payments where there i s no direct link to
goods, works and services that are made available to beneficiaries under identifiable contracts following
appropriate procurement procedures. The choice o f cash transfers i s justified on various grounds.
Experience in other disaster recovery situations has shown that cash grants for basic housing assistance i s
well-suited to facilitating recovery in general and housing reconstructioninparticular. Grants for owner-
driven rebuilding are responsive to individual preferences and maximize household ownership while
reducing the administrative burden on the federal and local governments. Inaddition, cash grants address
the needs o f those who may be unable to participate in alternate safety net programs like public works or
those not equipped to use other foms o f livelihood support like credit and inputs at this stage. Grants
also serve to infuse spending power in communities which will in turn revive economic activity in
affected areas. Therefore Managementhas granted a waiver o f OP 12.00 to permit the use o f cash grants
for housing reconstruction.

12.     Structural design standards needed to fully meet the requirements o f modem EQ design codes
will be issued by ERRA. These codes will follow internationally accepted guidelines for low-cost EQ
resistant housing construction5 that are intended to prevent system collapse and control the level o f
damage produced by seismic excitations. To minimize future risks to life and limb, these solutions will
generally be based on thinner walls, lighter roofing and well connected structural systems, and exclude
the use o f `katcha-type' construction (earthen houses, random rubble masonry, brickwork in clay/mud
mortar, etc) that i s highlyvulnerable to collapse.

13.     Reconstructed housing units will be located on firm ground and generally consist of: (a) burnt
brick, dressed coursed stone, or concrete block masonry foundations and walls set in cementllime mortar
and suitably reinforced with horizontal RCC bands at plinth, lintel, and roof levels, and vertical
reinforcement at wall comers and openings; or (b) appropriately detailed reinforced concrete frame
structures with masonry infill walls.      Roofing will comprise GI sheets with supporting timbedsteel
framing, or RCC slabs.

14.     The ERC funding for the Housing Component will fund the reconstruction and restoration o f
approximately 87,000 units, which represent between 20 and 25% o f the total housing reconstruction
needs, IDA funds will be geographically targeted to selected tehsils in the affected districts. Their
selection will be based on their having relatively poorer segments o f the population, and being completely
rural, and will be done inconsultation with the Government. All eligible housing units ina selected tehsil
will be covered. The total funds provided under the ERC will be equally divided between NWFP and
AJK.

(ii)TechnicalAssistanceandCapacityBuilding(US$lO million)

15.     Project Management Support: This sub-component will support E m , and the provincial and
local government levels in overall project management, coordination, reporting, monitoring and
evaluation, and compliance with the social and environmental framework through project management
consultants. It will also support ERRA in coordinating the multiple housing reconstruction initiatives
underway, albeit localized, to ensure equitable coverage o f all the affected households, and
implementation o f consistent seismically acceptable constructionstandards.


  Guidelines for Earthquake Resistant Non-Engineered Construction 1986 - by the International Association of
Earthquake Engineering, Japan.


                                                     16

16.      Damage and Eligibility Assessment Survey: The Survey will be conducted to: (a) categorize the
level o f damage to each housing unit; and (b) establish lists o f eligible beneficiaries. The sub-component
will cover the costs o f administering the survey in the affected districts, as well as training the survey
teams in assessment techniques and criteria so that these are applied uniformly.            The teams would
comprise a minimum o f three persons - a local government representative, a social organizer, and an
engineer. Approximately 700,000 housing units in the eight affected districts will need to be surveyed
over two to three months. Between 700 and 1,000 teams will be hired and trained over about one month
(assuming each team covers an average o f twelve units per day). The component will cover the costs o f
developing the survey instrument, as well as administering the survey. The instrument will be designed
and initial training of the teams will be done by specialized consultants, with overall administration by
ERRA.

17.      Hazard Risk Mapping: Funds are considered to prepare a Hazard RiskMapping study covering
site investigations and testing to identify areas susceptible to future natural disasters including
earthquakes, landslides, and erosiodsettlement.         ERRA will engage a specialist consultant team o f
seismologists and geotechnical engineers to prepare detailed hazard risk maps for the affected areas that
include (a) micro-zoning for seismic risk; and (b) clearly identified sites that are highly vulnerable to
landslides andor soil or foundation failures. Initial results are expected to be available by the start o f the
construction season (MarcWApril) to guide the housing reconstructionhestoration effort, including the
need for special foundationtreatments or localized re-sitting where appropriate.

18.      Development of Hazard-Resistant Housing Solutions: ERRA will engage a team o f housing
consultants6to prepare a range o f EQresistant housing solutions, based on a standard core unit,to cater to
diverse needs (climatic conditions, local material availability, community preferences, etc.).            The
consultants will follow internationally accepted guidelines for low-cost EQresistant housing construction,
while also drawing on the lessons learned from building performance during the October 2005
Earthquake. The consultants' outputs will include construction drawings, bills o f quantities, fabrication
drawings, material schedules and illustrated constructionmanuals for each type o f wall and roof system.
The consultants will also develop technical guidelines and sketches for structural restoration and
strengthening o f typical building systems that have been damaged in the affected areas. The housing
consultants will conduct workshops to educate key technical staff and master-trainers o f Partner
Organization about the essential considerations involved in constructing EQresistant housing units; and
collaborate with the POs in developing appropriate training material for site engineers, craftsmen,
fabricators and affected owners. The consultants will also assist in presenting the EQ resistant housing
solutions intwo dissemination workshops to get broader consensus and ownership.

19.      Implementation Support through Partner Organizations: In view o f the extensive outreach
needed for the credible administrationand monitoring o f the challengingtask o f housingreconstruction, it
i s clear that existing public sector institutional capacity will require considerable reinforcement. Since
capacity buildingrequires time, while the reconstruction activity cannot wait indefinitely, this component
will assist inenhancing the public sector's delivery capacity through partnerships with reputable Partner
Organizations/NGOs.

20.      The partner organizations o f the PakistanPoverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF) are already operating
in over 3000 communities in 174 o f the 210 union councils and in 6 of the 8 EQ affected districts and
have successfully delivered substantial physical infrastructure and services.' The government proposes to
build on this success by inducting such organizations to support the implementation o f the owner driven
housing reconstruction program. Reputable POs will be engaged by NWFP and AJK using screening



  Comprising structural engineers, archtects and planners.
7 Valued at over USD 80 million.


                                                        17

criteria broadly similar to those used by the PPAF.' POs will be asked to augment their technical capacity
to appropriate levels for effective support to the Housing assistance program. Only one PO will be
designated to work on housing reconstruction in each affected union. The POs will be charged with: (i)
providing guidance to affected communities in implementing the owner driven housing reconstruction
program, including a comprehensive briefing on its key elements prior to release o f the advance payment;
(ii) engineersandcraftsmen;(iii)
    training                                overseeing reconstructiodrestoration activities to assure quality
and EQ resistant construction; and (iv) ensuring compliance with social and environmental riskmitigating
measures.

21.      Skill Training: Delivery o f the proposed housing reconstructionhehabilitationprogram over a
3-year period will involve an approximate ten-fold increase in pre-earthquake pucca housing activity in
the affected districts, and a two-fold overall increase in this activity in NWP and AJK. It i s roughly
estimated that the following size o f skilled and unskilledworkforce will be needed annuallyg:

                              Table 2: Reconstruction Workforce Requirements
                                   Skill                                  Numbers
                            1.     Site Engineers                               150
                            2.     Supervisorslsurveyors                        150
                            3.     Masons                                   40,000
                            4.     Steel Fabricators(fixedfitters)              700
                            5.     CarpenterdSheetRooffixers                13,000
                            6.     Plumbers                                  2,500
                            7.     Electricians                              2,000
                            8.     Painters                                   1,000
                                                            Total skilled   59,500

                            9.     Semi-Skilled/Unskilled                   80,000

22.      Given the general increase in construction activity across the country over the past year, at best
about 20% o f this need will be met by the slulled construction workforce resident inthe affected areas or
coming in from outside. This group will need to be provided limited training inEQresistant construction
practices. The remaining 80% o f the required workforce will have to be trained from scratch as part o f
the program.

23.      This training will be impartedbyPOsintwo stages. The first stage will involve skilled craftsmen
inkey trades (mainly masons, steel fabricators and sheet roof fixers), who will be: (i) about the
                                                                                           briefed
overall construction requirements for the core unit; and (ii)       provided short, focused training in EQ
resistant construction, and a general refresher on good construction practices. This will be done by PO
senior technical staff and master-trainers, using a mix o f visual training material and on-site practical
demonstrations. Following this training, these craftsmen will be `accredited' by the PO for the Housing
program.

24.      For the second stage, the POs will launch a craftsman training program in each affected district.
Trainees will be registered and attached to accredited slulled artisans under an apprenticeship program
that will involve on-the-job training spanning one complete construction cycle or at least 3 months.
During this period the trainees will be provided a stipend, and at the end o f this period they will be
`accredited' to operate independently and to train others. The pool o f slulled construction workers will
thus be gradually built up (broadly over the course of the first year), until the housing demand in the
affected areas i s fully met.


 Using advisory assistancefromPPAF, ifrequired.
 These numbersare for the entire Housing reconstruction program (not only ERC finding).


                                                       18

25.      Facilitating the Building Materials Market:              In view of the unprecedented scale of
reconstructionactivity inthe affected regions, the Government will needto facilitate the smooth supply o f
building materials in the required quantities.             This sub-component would further support the
government's efforts through establishing direct links with the private sector at the national and local
levels to assist the flow and purchase o f building materials, particularly by rural committees and other
community-based organizations.

26.      Proactive measures will be undertaken at various levels, to ensure that the planned 10-fold
increase inpucca housing construction activity i s not constrained by buildingmaterial shortages, and that
inputprices canbemaintainedat reasonable levels:

   i. ERRAandtheprovinceswillwidelypublicizethemulti-yearhousingreconstructionprogramand
         corresponding aggregate annual demand for building materials particularly cement, steel, CGI
         Sheets, etc.", and identify net import needs so that domestic material manufacturers as well as
         traderdimporters can gear up to meet this increased demand intime.
  ii. Localgovernmentswillprovidesuitablesitesforsettingupoflocalbuildingmaterialmarkets,to
         supply affected owners.
  iii. POsactiveinmicro-creditinitiativeswillbeencouragedtoprovideentrepreneurshiptrainingand
         fundingto locals inthe affected areas to set up shop inthe above material markets; and technical
         training in production o f prefabricated housing elements such as: formwork; pre-cut and shaped
         reinforcement bars; door frames and shutters; window units; structural steel roof framing
         members, etc.

27.      Information Dissemination: The widespread and timely dissemination o f information on the full
range o f assistance options, their eligibility criteria, and the means o f accessing them will be crucial to the
efficient implementation o f the program. Moreover, effective information dissemination would also be
needed on seismically acceptable construction solutions, alternative materials, methods o f constructions,
material availability and pricing variations.

28.      Following the completion o f the Damage Assessment surveys, the list o f home owners eligible
for reconstruction or restoration grants will be determined. ERRA and the POs will communicate this
information to the respective communitieshouseholds, including detailed guidance on how to access
these grants, and a comprehensive briefing on the key elements o f the owner driven housing
reconstruction strategy. Widespread public education programs on the risks posed by practices such as
clearing o f rubble into river courses would be required, together with measures to ensure adequate supply
of suitably sourced materials. An effective information, education, and communication strategy will thus
be developed by a communications firmwith requisite experience.

29.      Land Acquisition and Development:             Households living in areas that are identified to be
dangerous by the Hazard Risk Mapping survey will be assisted in relocating to new sites. If needed,
funds will be made available for (i)       consultations with identified households on their preferences for
relocation; and (ii)  acquisition and development o f alternate sites for their resettlement.

30.      Grievance Redressal Mechanism:            This sub-component will include the establishment o f a
formal and transparent gnevance redressal mechanism at the union, district, and program levels, to
expedite resolution o f complaints by and grievances o f affected families concerning, for example, the
delayed release o f financial assistance and erroneous housing damage assessment. It will also be needed


loInitial estimates indicate the following annual material requirements: Cement: 200,000 tons; Steel: 40,000 tons;
CGI Sheets: 25 million sq. ft. These numbers are for the entire Housing reconstruction program (not only ERC
finding).


                                                         19

for settlement o f land disputes and documentation o f land claims. It will also finance the costs o f
salvaging land records, as well as costs o f re-establishing claims for which all documentation has been
lost, usingcommunity and other sources o f mediation.

(iii) OtherIssuesto beAddressed

31,      Ownership/TitZe: The government will eventually be investing about US$ one billion under the
proposed housing reconstruction program to help affected households replace destroyed and damaged
housing with a significantly improved housing stock. This presents a unique opportunity to let rural
households, that have historically been left out o f the formal credit market for lack o f tangible collateral,
to leverage these assets to access credithank loans in future, provided house ownership i s formally
documented through legal title, particularly for properties where landtitle i s not indispute.

E.       Key PerformanceIndicators,MonitoringandEvaluationArrangements

32.     Monitoring o f the reconstruction and restoration o f housing units and its impact would be done
through several mechanisms, including a continuous social impact assessment, technical progress reports
of the union and district levels, as well as third-party monitoringby POs.

33.      The following key performance indicatorswill be used for monitoring o f project outcomes:

    a) amount o f restorationheconstruction grants disbursed;
    b) number o fhouses reconstructedrestored to EQ-resistance standards;
    c) number o f craftsmen trained inkey trades (masons and carpenters); and
    d) percentage o fcomplaints redressed.




                                                       20

                                     APPENDIX11: LIVELIHOOD            SUPPORT

A.        Overviewof Damage

1.        Early estimates o f livelihood losses suffered by earthquake-affected areas indicate that these
losses will affect a population o f around 1.5 million. The largest job/livelihood losses are estimated to
have occurred in agriculture and the informal private sector, comprising mostly small businesses and
shops, transport and construction. Beyond the job losses and material damage, the earthquake has had a
profound social impact in affected areas. A large number o f orphaned children, along with widows,
single-headed households, elderly, and disabled people are especially prone to psycho-social distress and
may lack basic means necessary for subsistence. Many o f the displaced families still lack adequate
shelter to protect themselves against the impending winter, while many others are living in camps under
difficult circumstances.

Pre-earthquake Proflle of Affected Areas

2.        Employment patterns across sectors and occupations. Inorder to arrive at preliminary estimates
of losses to livelihood, it i s necessary to establish baselines on employment in affected districts. The
estimated total pre-quake employment in the affected districts o f the two provinces i s 1.12 million (see
Table 1)'' This estimate was derived from employment figures published inDistrict Census Reports o f
the Population Census o f 1998, and adjusted upwards to account for population growth since 1998 and
female labor force participation (significantly under-reported by the Census), using'PIHS (200 1-02) as a
reference. The estimate includes self-employment and paid employment of all individuals o f age 10 and
above, but excludes employment o f migrant workers inregions outside the affected districts - following
the definitions adhered to by the Population Census.

3.        In rural areas, agriculture (including livestock rearing) is the primary source o f employment.
Agriculture accounts for 37 and 49 percent o f total rural employment in AJK and NWFP respectively.
Services and public administration account for 60 percent o f employment in the affected urban areas o f
AJK, small trading andbusinesses account for 14percent, and construction and transport together account
for 13 percent. Public administration, trade and small businesses, followedby construction and transport,
are also the most significant sectors o f employment for the affected urban areas o f NWFP. Participation
of women in the labor force i s low in the affected districts (around 17 percent o f women o f age 10 and
above). Among those workmg, public administration and agriculture account for the highest shares. The
employment estimates, however, are likely to understate productive activities o f women, particularly in
home-based activities.

4.        Migration and remittances. An important feature o f the affected districts i s remittances, sent by
household members who migrate to other parts o f Pakistan as well as to other countries. More than half
of households inthe affected districts o f NWFP receivedremittances from domestic sources according to
PIHS (1998-99), while the incidence o f foreign remittances was almost negligible.                   Remittances
amounted to around 29 percent o f household consumption expenditure. Remittances are even higher in
AJK, with 68 percent o f households receiving remittances (including 25 percent who receive foreign
remittances), which amount to 34 percent of total household consumption. Remittances amount to a
quarter of the households' consumption expenditure inAJK and NWFP, even for the poorest 20 percent
o f the population.



"Notethatthis is the total employmentof the8districts affectedbythe earthquake.        However, for most o f these
districts, not all areas were affected or equally affected by the earthquake, which makes this number only a rough
estimate of employment inearthquake affected areas.


                                                          21

Damage Estimates

5.       Given the profile o f livelihoods outlined above, the most severe impact on livelihoods i s likely to
occur in the informal sector - through loss o f livestock and other agricultural inputs, including land, and
losses suffered by traders and small businesses. From the preliminary damage statistics, the primary
impact on urban livelihoods i s in the form o f losses in wage employment and self-employment in the
private sector - namely trade, small shops and businesses, construction and transport. For example, over
70 percent o f shops have been fully or partially damaged inBatagram, Muzaffarabad and Bagh districts.
Even shops and businesses that have escaped damage face enormous challenges, given the loss o f markets
and the uncertainty o f demand due to large-scale migration from some areas.

6.       The largest source o f livelihood loss in rural areas is likely to be disruptions in agricultural and
livestock-based activities, such as milk production.           In agriculture, a temporary loss in output and
employment can occur due to the inability to harvest crops, loss o f acreage for cultivation, and the
inability to prepare land for the next season. Livestock losses, besides representing significant losses in
terms o f capital assets, are also likely to have an enormous impact on the incomes o f rural households.
All available sources indicate that significant losses in livestock have occurred, especially among
households located at higher altitudes.

7.       Aggregating across all sectors, the total estimated loss in employment or livelihood i s around
324,000, which represents approximately 29 percent o f the total employed population (above age 10) in
the eight districts (Table 1). The provincial breakdown i s around 132,000 inAJK and 192,000 inNWFP,
which amount to 38 and 25 percent o f total employment in the affected districts of the two provinces,
respectively.      The largest job losses are in agriculture, trade (small businesses and shops) and
construction. Given the lack o f adequate information on lost employment, these figures are extrapolated
from various proxies: outputhousehold income losses in agriculture, and damages to shops, businesses,
roads and transport.'2 No employment loss i s assumed for migrant workers and public sector employees.

8.       It is important to make a distinction between loss o f employment and the population whose lives
are affected by this loss. A preliminary estimate i s that the above loss in employment and the resulting
income shock has affected around 1.64million people inthe quake-affected district^.'^

9.       Finally, given the high incidence o f remittances in affected areas, it i s also important to consider
the possible impact o f the disaster on remittance flows and employment o f migrant workers. The inflow
of remittances can also be an important element o f the coping strategy o f households, particularly in the
context o f shocks suffered to other sources o f livelihood. Among households receivingremittances, there
i s likely to be an impact on the flows, particularly if they rely on post offices and banks for transfer o f
money.14 To the extent that households were relying on private networks to receive remittances, these
networks also may have been temporarily disrupted. Employment losses among migrant workers are only
likely inthe event that they have to return to their homes to help their families to rebuild. The net impact
of this on livelihoods i s uncertain, since it i s equally likely that some o f the migrants may decide to
relocate their entire families outside the affected areas.




l2 These numbersshould be considered preliminary and rough, and are likely to mask loss infemale employment in
household-based activities, w h c h are typically under-counted in survey data and even innational accounting. The
estimates also imply linear extrapolation from output or capital losses to employment, which can be misleading,
particularly inthe case o f subsistence agriculture.
l3 Ths estimate is arrived at by applying the ratio o f total number of employed persons to total population in
affected districts, as reportedby Census (1998).
l4 According to the State Bank o f Pakistan, out o f 230 branches that were operational inthe affected areas before the
earthquake, 200 that were affected have resumed operations, while 18 have beencompletely destroyed.


                                                           22

                             Table 1: EmploymentLosses by Provinceand Sector




                                                                                112,798    51     57,027




B.      Reconstruction and Recovery Needs

10.     A disaster o f this magnitude that has affected a multitude o f public and privately owned assets
critical for economic activity and employment, calls for a multi-sectoral approach.              A livelihood
rehabilitation strategy that i s focused on the most vulnerable households and enterprises among the
affected communities will be most effective if complementedby adequate investments in the rebuilding
of public infrastructure such as roads, post offices, schools, health clinics and provision o f housing. Since
the disaster's impact i s not uniform across affected districts and communities within districts, the overall
support for livelihood will need to ensure that no affected community i s left behind, which will be a
significant challenge given the remoteness o f certain areas due to the mountainous terrain. The challenge
inthe short-term will also be compounded by the onset o f winter, which will likely delay reconstruction
o f permanent housing and infrastructure.

11.     A livelihood support strategy should be geared towards the following objectives: (i)         protecting
the most vulnerable in the short-term; (ii)   rejuvenating economic activity in affected areas - including
reviving small businesses and trades and replacing assets lost in agriculture, including livestock; and (iii)
creating employment opportunities for those permanently disabled by the earthquake by providing
training and skills enhancement programs.

12.     To protect the vulnerable, a viable short-term option i s the provision o f cash grants to affected
families, in the form o f a monthly support o f a fixed amount. As the cash grants are phased out, those
needing extended support, like widows and the disabled, should be integrated into the country's regular
social assistance programs. Over time, cash for work programs can also be effective in generating
temporary employment for those who are able and willing to work at an appropriate wage, along with
rebuilding community infrastructure. However, given that such programs are not common in Palustan, a
phased approach through pilots may be necessary to gauge participation in and benefits from such a
program.

13.     Generating sustainable livelihoods in a post-disaster situation will also require critical financing
to replace lost productive assets, particularly for entrepreneurs inthe informal sector (like small shops and
businesses) as well as livestock owners. This assistance can take the form o f expanding microJinance



                                                       23

coverage to include affected entrepreneurs and livestock owners; and extending grants to micro-
entrepreneurs, particularly those who have experienced severe losses and have limited access to formal
channels o f finance. Finally, the highincidence o f severe injuries, many o f which may lead to permanent
disabilities, suggests an urgent need for a strategy to rehabilitate such individuals, through training in
suitable vocations and employing community-based rehabilitation approaches.

C.        ProposedProgramComponents

14.       Cash Grants: description, amount and eligibility:          The primary component o f the ERC for
livelihood support will be the cash grant program, in the form o f a monthly income support o f a fixed
amount targeted to affected and vulnerable households, recurring over a period o f six months. The
proposed program offers maximum utility to beneficiaries by allowing them the flexibility to acquire
goods in accordance with their needs. Moreover, it can be implemented quickly - critical given the
urgency o f the situation and the fact that the challenge o f providing emergency relief and the onset o f
winter is likely to delay other forms o f livelihood support for a few months. Duringthis interim period,
as experience in other countries has shown, cash grants can be effective in protecting the vulnerable, as
well as helping regenerate local economies by creating purchasing power in affected areas. These grants
are envisaged to commence around midto end January, by which time the immediate relief operations as
well as the movement o f population to relief camps and temporary shelters are expected to stabilize. A
waiver o f OP 12.00 (Disbursements) and OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery Assistance) i s required to allow
use o f IDA for cash grants including livelihood support. Managementhas granted this waiver

15.       The livelihood support cash grants will complement existing cash compensations that are being
provided by GOP to various categories o f affected households. These include one-time compensations o f
Rs. 100,000 per death and Rs. 15,000-50,000 per injury (ranging fi-om minor to permanent injuries), and
Rs. 25,000 for damage that results inunliveable housing. These payments are subject to a cap o f a total
of Rs. 500,000 per household. The disbursements o f these compensations have been initiated and are
expected to be completed by end o f December.

16.       It is important to note that the above compensation schemes, by the very nature o f their
objectives, are not substitutes for the livelihood support cash grant. Firstly,the latter will provide regular
income support to also those who may not be eligible for the other compensations. This will include
households who have not suffered deaths, injuries or permanent damage to housing, but are vulnerable to
an income shock since they have lost their only source o f livelihood, like livestock, shops or employment.
Even among those who are eligible for other types o f compensation, particularly ones who have lost their
main income earner, livelihood cash grants will provide regular transfers over a period o f time to partly
make up for losses inincome flow, which none o f the other payments will compensate for.

17.       The proposed grant amount has been set taking into account what i s needed on the average to
satisfy the basic necessities o f a household. The national poverty line for Pakistan provides the reference
point for estimating such needs, since it represents the imputed cost o f attaining a minimum calorie
requirement, along with other basic needs like fuel and c10thing.l~With this as a reference, the amount o f
cash grant per household will be Rs. 3,000 per month. Inarriving at this figure, we assume that the food
requirements for vulnerable households for the next six months will be largely met by direct food relief
provided by various relief agencies, and an average family size o f 7 in affected areas. An amount o f


l5 The official poverty line is Rs. 674 of monthly expenditure per equivalent adult at 1998-99 prices, w h c h i s
equivalent to Rs. 816 monthly per capita at current prices. A certain share of t h s amount i s what is deemed
necessary to attain the basic requirement interms of food only - estimated to be Rs. 457 at current prices (the "food
component" is obtained by multiplyingthe poverty line with the average share o f food consumption expenditure
among the poor). The difference between this amount and the poverty line - Rs. 359 per capita per month - i s the
amount neededto meet basic needs, net offood.


                                                        24

Rs.2,520 is adequate to fully attain all basic needs net o f food for a family o f 7 members, which is the
average household size in many affected areas.16 Rounding this number to Rs. 3,000 also allows
households to supplement some o f their other expenditures, for example on fodder for livestock or any
unmet food needs.

18.      The above calculation rests on the assumption that food needs are adequately met by direct relief.
The situationreport o fNovember 20 byUNOCHA suggests that currently only an estimated 60 percent o f
the food needs of the affected population are being met. This situation will need to be reviewed before
initiating the cash grants program, and the grant amount may be adjusted to reflect unmet food needs.

19.      The primary principles for setting eligibility criteria for cash grants are: (a) the criteria should be
simple and verifiable easily on the ground; (b) they must include all potentially vulnerable categories o f
the earthquake-affected population; and (c) applying the criteria should not pose significant "transactions
cost" or administrativeburden.

20.      The eligible households will be drawn from households affected by earthquake, defined by a
reasonable set o f criteria appropriately defined. This could include, for example, households that have
been displaced due to housing damage or lost their main source o f livelihood (shopbusiness, livestock or
agricultural land).

21,      Depending on the extent o f damage suffered by each community or village, the cash grants will
be targeted geographically or at the household level. Geographic targeting, namely assistance to all
households living in the village, will be an option for areas that have suffered nearly universal damage.
These are likely to be areas inclose proximity o f the epicentre or the fault line. Among villages that have
suffered moderate damage, individual households will be targeted among those affected according to
eligibility criteria that are easy to observe and simple enough for identification and validation.                One
option would be to target households affected by the earthquake who also have three or more dependents
(children below age 18, disabled or seriouslv injured, elderly above age 55 and widows),.                     Such an
eligibility condition appears to be reasonable since it will likely ensure that all potentially vulnerable and
affected households will qualify for the program.               Efforts are underway, through extensive field
interviews in affected areas, to determine the viability o f implementing such eligibility criteria.
Determination o f the exact eligibility criteria will be a condition for disbursement o f the project funds.

22.      Cost of theprogram: Given that the damage assessment estimated an employment loss o f around
324,000, and the existence o f an expected overlap betweenhouseholds who have lost livelihood and those
who have suffered damage to housing, death to an adult member or loss o f livestockkhop, the universe o f
affected population i s estimated to comprise 500,000 household^.'^ Among these households, around 50
percent are expected to meet the criteria specified above, based on indicative evidence from household
surveys (PIHS). The notional cost o f cash grants o f Rs. 3,000 monthly per household for 6 months for
250,000 households i s $75 million. Adding an implementation cost o f 13 percent (for data collection,
monitoring and other administrative costs), the total budget for the Progam i s estimated to be US$85




l6According to HIES and PIHS through the 199Os, the average household size o f Pakistan i s a little over 6, and
around 7 for NWFP. The figure o f Rs. 3000 per household per month i s then arrived at by taking a per capita
amount o f about Rs. 430, whwh i s a little higher than basic needs net o f food (Rs. 359).
l7 The figure of 500,000 affected households translates to approximately 3.5 million individuals (assuming an
average household size o f 7), which i s consistent with the size o f the affected population quoted by the government
and other sources.


                                                          25

million.18 It i s important to bear inmindthat these estimates o f affected and target households are rough,
and as more informationbecomes available, the final cost o f the programmay have to be revised.

D.        ImplementationArrangements

23,       The actual implementer o f the program will be the district administration o f each affected district
inboth AJK andNWFP, with the provincial government of NWFP (GoNWFP) and government of AJK
(GoAJK),andthe Federal government assuming policy-setting and oversight roles.

24.       Delivery of cash grant: Given the urgent need to deliver cash grants by mid to late January, a
concerted effort will be made to explore the viability o f using existing information collected in affected
areas by district governments, for identifying households eligible for the first round o f payments. It
appears that there are ongoing efforts to identify households who have suffered losses interms o f death,
injuries, damage to housing and livestock, conducted by revenue officials like patwaris with the help o f
Union Council members. Such existing information will have to be assessed for completeness and can
form the starting point for assigning eligibility for household level targeting.

25.       Inareaswhere individualhouseholdsare to betargeted, eligibility willbe determined through a
community-driven process. This will entail forming committees at the level o f Union Council (UC),
which will conduct community meetings (kacheri) in all affected villages to apply eligibility conditions
transparently for identifying eligible households.       A readily available option i s to use the existing
committees formed to validate death and injury payments, with representation from UCs (in NWFP),
army and the civilian administration. The UC level committee will be responsible for sending the eligible
lists to the district administration, which will issue payments to eligible families. The above process may
need to be modified for urban areas, where organizing public meeting may be difficult. In such cases the
information can be collected by DCO/DC and other officials and validated by posting eligible lists at
public places and local media.

26.       In areas that have suffered extensive or near-complete damage, households are likely to be
dispersed and traumatized to the extent that community driven identification o f eligible households will
be difficult, which will render household level targeting impossible.           Moreover, in such areas, all
households are likely to be vulnerable, which will justify geographic targeting, namely distributingcash
grants to all living inthese areas.

27.       The process described above will not obviate the need to develop a database o f affected
households with details on household characteristics and the exact nature o f losses suffered. In the
absence o f such a database, the program will run the risk o f excluding deserving households, particularly
those living intemporary shelters and relief camps far away from their place o f origin. The viability o f
developing such a database and the suitable partner organization to conduct data collection i s being
discussed and coordinated with ERRA, and currently being evaluatedthrough a pilot data collection effort
inaffected areas. The full database canbe usedto cross-check and validate the eligibility list for the first
payment. This will minimize exclusion and mis-targeting starting with the second round o fpayment.

28.       Roles and responsibilities of different levels of government: The district administration (the
relevant offices/departments, like the DCO/DC and the revenue department) will be responsible for
coordination across Union Councils in forming committees, issuing payments, and oversight on the
community validation process. Grievances that arise from the community validation process should be
handledby a suitable office in the district administration, with clear rules for adjudicating any changes to
the eligible list.

   The estimate o f 13 percent for program implementation i s in line with international experience with similar
programs, keeping inmindthe challenging terrain insome of the areas affected by the earthquake.


                                                       26

29.       The provincial government o f NWFP (GoNWFP) and Government o f AJK (GoAJK) will
coordinate policy directions with the relevant Federal government agency; coordinate implementation
across districts; announce date and mode o f delivery o f payments; and monitor program implementation.
ReconstructionAgencies (RAs) will be set up in NWFP and AJK to assist each government in carrying
out the above functions. In addition, the U      s will be responsible for reporting regularly on the progress
o f the program to the relevant international donors and government regulators.

30.       At the Federal level, ERRA will be responsible for setting policy directions inconsultation with
GoNWFP and GoAJK; broad budgetary allocations across the two governments; and monitoring and
tracking payments to beneficiaries. Setting policy directions will include assigning the eligibility criteria
and determining payment amounts and the duration (and phasingout) o fpayments.

31.       Closer to the time o f implementation, a comprehensive Operations Manual specifying the
complete eligibility rules, rules for validation and appeals process, and the accountabilities o f different
tiers of government will be developed and agreed upon with the relevant government counterparts.

32.       Delivering payments to beneficiaries: The system o f delivering payments should comply with
some broad principles that are critical to ensure that the program serves to alleviate cash constraints.
These include: (i)    the flow o f funds down to the beneficiaries should be transparent and amenable to
financial auditing; (ii)  beneficiaries should be able to access the payments without high transaction cost,
interms of dealing with intermediaries, travel time and cost; and (iii) that possessionof a National
                                                                           given
Identity Card (NIC) i s required to access most government services, arrangements should be made to
provide IDS    to beneficiarieswho have lost their IDSor never hadthem.

33.       The options for distributingpayments include banks and post offices. Usingthe banking network
to distribute payments has the advantage o f being amenable to tracking and auditing o f payments and
ensuring that the payments go to the intended individuals. However, since many of the poor households
are unlikely to have transacted with banks in the past, it will be necessary to create bank accounts in the
names o f all eligible householdheads. The current cash compensations by the government are in a large
part being channelled through banks, which justifies a similar mechanism for the disbursement o f
livelihood cash grants.      In areas where banks are not easily accessible, post offices offer a viable
alternative. In such cases, too, a mechanism for creating accounts inthe names of beneficiaries will need
to be inplace.

34.       It will be important to coordinate with NADRA before the first payments are issued. The
NADRAdatabasecanprovide additionalinformationto validate the eligible lists, andthe use ofNICs can
ensure that the payments are collected by the beneficiaries they are intended for. In addition, matching
this database with the village list in the Population Census o f 1998 and the eligibility list for the first
payment will help ensure coverage o f all villages. However, the coverage o f NICs may not be complete,
especially for women, and many may have lost their IDSinthe earthquake. For such categories o f people
who are also eligible for the cash grants, a system should be put inplace to validate identities and issue
new IDS,before banWpost office accounts can be created. Moreover, in areas where mobility of women
i s restricted by cultural factors, special outreach efforts will need to be made to ensure that beneficiaries
who are women (for example, women-headed families) are registered into the system.

E.        Key Indicators, Monitoring and EvaluationArrangements

35.       Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) i s especially important for cash grants, since it involves direct
transfer o f money, which i s susceptible to leakage and misappropriation. Periodic monitoring will also
informpolicy-makers on the need to make swift corrections, particularly when payments are not reaching
the intended beneficiaries, or where there i s large-scale mis-identification and exclusion.




                                                       27

36.      For process indicators highlighted below, monitoring arrangements will consist of the managerial
monitoring by the RA and operational spot-checks by an independent agency to assess payment delivery.
For managerial monitoring, the RA will have program monitors who will visit the communities to check
the functioning of the delivery mechanisms. The operational spot-checks will be conducted at regular
intervals by an independent agency to check the effectiveness o f the delivery mechanism.               The
independent monitors will produce periodic reports (after each payment) that will inform GoNWFP,
GoAJK and the Federalagencies to adjust the operation o fthe program as necessary.

37.      For impact indicators highlighted below, a beneficiary survey to assess mis-targeting, exclusion
and the impact o f the program on vulnerability will be conducted after the program i s phased out. This
will also informthe implications for the broader safety net programs o f the country, interms o f the groups
that are especially vulnerable and may need continued support. The survey will be conducted on a sample
basis at the household level, ensuring representation o f the population in affected areas. The assessment
should be conducted by the Federal counterparts in partnership with an appropriate independent local
institution and will be supported by the World Bank. Finally, the program will be subject to financial
audits after each round o fpayment i s completed.

                                Table 2: Indicators and Modalities for Monitoring

    Indicators                                           Means of verification
    Process indicators:
    0  No. of communitiesivillages reached                0Project reports from R4
    0  No. o f families benefited ineach district         0Reports from operational spot-checks by
    0  amount o f money collected by beneficiaries         independent monitors
    0  No. o f communities/villages where payments
       were delivered o n time
       No. o f grievances/appeals received by district
       andhow many have beenresolved
    Impact indicators:
    0  Proportion o f eligible households not receiving    Beneficiary survey, lSf 2 payments) and 2"d
                                                                                 (after
       paments and proportion o fbeneficiaries who         round (after 6 payments).
       are not eligible
    0  Proportion o f affected families meetingtheir
       basic needs
       Proportion o f affected families who need fixther
       support after 6 months




                                                        28

                                     APPENDIX111: IMPORT         FINANCING

A.       Macroeconomic Effects

OverallEffects

 1.      The earthquake caused extensive loss of life and physical damage. Immediate efforts focused on
rescue operations and the humanitarianneeds o f survivors. Beyond the unquantifiable human cost and in
addition to relief costs, the Preliminary Damage and Needs Assessment placed the cost o f reconstruction
at US$3.5 billion, or nearly 4 percent o f Pakistan's 2004/05 GDP. Part o f these reconstruction costs will
fall on the private sector and households. However, the major share o f reconstruction costs will fall on
the Government o f Pakistan for two main reasons. First, there i s widespread destruction o f public social
and physical infrastructure in the affected area, which will have to be rebuilt with Government funds.
Reconstruction cost o f rebuilding these assets and services i s projected at US$1.5 billion. Second,
households in the affected areas are poor, and will require government assistance to rebuild their
livelihoods and homes.        The level o f this public assistance to households will be assessed by the
Government o f Pakistan, taking into consideration criteria o f affordability and consistency with
macroeconomic stability.

2.       The earthquake will have an adverse impact on the economy, most notably on the fiscal deficit o f
the Government o f Pakistan.         In the absence of any offsetting revenue increases and expenditure
reductions, fiscal deficits during FY06-08 year could increase by as much as 0.6 to one percent o f GDP
per year. However, the Government has already stated that, in view o f the emergency created by the
earthquake, it would be revisiting overall expenditure levels and composition with a view o f reallocating
some less-priority spending towards reconstruction and rehabilitation o f affected areas. The government
i s also considering implementing measures to enhance own revenue mobilization. The Governments o f
NWFP and AX'S budget will be unable to accommodate a significant share o f the relief and
reconstruction expenditure, although it would be expected and desirable that they would have significant
role inreconstruction.

3.       The impact o f the earthquake on Palustan's official GDP (which excludes GDP from A X ) i s
expected to be relatively small, inthe order o f 0.4 percent. FY06 GDP growth was projected inJune at 7
percent; however, recent data on the outcome o f the cotton and sugarcane suggests that growth will be
around 6.5 percent. The additional impact o f the earthquake i s likely to bring output growth further
down, to around 6.1 per~ent.'~This loss i s due to a projected reduction inNWFP output for FY06. In
addition, the output loss in A X could amount to Rs. 76.4 billion (US$297 million), or 27 percent of
AX'S2004-05 output. As reconstruction activity starts, the impact on GDP growth could actually be
positive, and will be felt mostly inFY07 andFOX.

4.       The earthquake has now created additional expenditure needs for relief, reconstruction, and
rehabilitation costs. These pressures could pose difficulties for Palustan's macroeconomic balances and
may undermine the achievement o f its long-term development goals, unless additional concessional
financing i s made available by the international community. A key element of the Palustan's PRSP i s the
utilization o f the additional fiscal space created by prudent fiscal policy and aid to meet development and
poverty alleviation objectives. It is, therefore, important that priority public expenditures be protected so
that Palustan can continue to improve service delivery o f health, education, and public infrastructure. The
Government has indicated that it would be prepared to absorb a part o f the budgetary impact o f the
earthquake by making cuts in low-priority expenditures and raising additional domestic revenue. These


   This assumes that all of the income loss will fall inFiscal Year 2005/06, an assumption that may overstate the
impact o f the earthquake on growth.


                                                        29

adjustments would be needed irrespective o f the amount and type o f financing that the donor community
provides. However, given the magnitude o fresources for rehabilitation o f the affected areas, it i s unlikely
that the government will be able to fully absorb the fiscal impact o f the earthquake without significantly
affecting public sector development activities.

Real Sector

5.       Pakistan's economy has undergone a rapid recovery in the last five years, after a decade o f
political instability, macroeconomic crisis, and limited economic and social progress. Pakistan i s now
one o f the fastest-growing economies in Asia. This remarkable turnaround in the economy has been
triggered by an ambitious program o f economic reforms and institutional strengthening, which has
gathered pace inrecent years. For a third consecutive year, output has grown strongly, with GDP growth
o f 8.4 percent for the fiscal year ending in June 2005. Strong domestic demand has boosted industrial
growth in the automobiles, fertilizer, and consumer durable sub-sectors.              The agricultural sector has
grown by 7.5 percent inthe fiscal year ending 2005, and it has been driven by bumper cotton and wheat
crops. The services sector grew on average 7.9 percent inthe same period. Exports have expanded at a
higher rate than output. Private sector response to these developments has been impressive, and is seen in
the rapid take up of excess capacity inmanufacturing, acceleration o f exports, and substantial investment
intextiles, banking, andtelecommunications.

6.       Over the short-run, the growth momentum i s unlikely to be significantly influenced by the
earthquake as the affected regions account for a very small part o f the country's GDP. As shown in
Figure 1, the two affected regions, NWFP and AJK, account for only 10.3 and 1.5 percent o f national
output respectively. The affected districts inNWFP and AJK account for a small share o f national GDP,
or 1.5 and 0.8 percent, respectively. As only a part o f the output inthese districts is likely to be lost due
to the earthquake in the foreseeable future, the overall impact o f the disaster on GDP growth i s likely to
be small.    Over the medium-term, a second-round effect can be expected as soon as reconstruction
activities start, and will translate into a stimulus to economic growth.

             Figure 1: Output Originatingfromthe AffectedRegions andDistricts,billionsof $US


          PO -
                        105

                                                            Nationaloutputoriginating
                                                             from theaffectedareas




                                              NWP       AJK
                                                        I




                 FourProvincesandAJK       AffectedRegions          AffectedDistricts   FourProvincesandAJK

         Source:World Bank staff estimate.

7.       While the affected areas will experience a significant dip in output, the impact on output at the
provincialhtate and national level will not be large. Growth at the national level is expected to decline by




                                                          30

0.4 percentage points in 2005/06.20 At the sub-national level, output losses in the affected areas most
severely hit by the earthquake are estimated to account for 3.6 percent o f the province's output inNWFP
and 27 percent in AJK. Within the affected districts, output losses inAJK are severe, accounting for 52
percent o f GDP o f the state, and moderate inNWFP, where 25 percent o f output i s likely to be lost due to
the earthquake (see Figure 2)

                        Figure2: Output Losses at the Nationaland Sub-national Level


         60%1                                   I                           I                                  I




                Fromthe Districts'GDP
                        PerspectiveofAffected      Fromthe Perspectiveof     Fromthe Perspectiveofthe National
                                                    ProvincdState'sGDP                  Economy

         Source: WE?Estimates.



Effects on Inflation

8.       There have been localized spikes in commodity prices in the areas affected by the earthquake.
These are expected to decline over the next few months. Once reconstruction starts, there will be further
pressures on inflation, as the recovery will further contribute to aggregate demand. Hence, there will be a
need for a monetary policy geared towards containing inflation, inthe absence o f which average inflation
inFY06couldreachdouble digits, hurtingthe poor disproportionately.

Effects on the External Sector

9.       Pakistan's trade balance i s projected to deteriorate during the on-going fiscal year. Although
exports have performed better than expected, imports have grown much faster than exports, and as a
result, the trade deficit has widened. Although both remittances and foreign direct investment have
shown healthy increases during the first three months o f the current fiscal year, these have only partly
neutralized the pressure on the current account. As a result, during July-October 2005, gross official
reserves have declined by $0.8 billion, to $9.2 billion.

10.      The earthquake may affect export performance negatively, should migrant workers from the
earthquake affected areas employed in textile and other export-oriented firms not return to their place o f
work. The other potential impact on exports could arise from a diversion o f cement and other exports
towards reconstruction and rehabilitation activities.         In any event, the overall impact on exports is
expectedto be limited, and exports are projected to continue growing rapidly throughout this fiscal year.



2o Loss in  output i s derived by estimating the labor and capital input losses using a stylized Cobb-Douglas
production function.


                                                         31

11.      The more significant pressure on the balance o f payments, however, will come from import
demand, which was already very strong before the earthquake. Reconstruction and rehabilitation needs
will have some additional impact on import demand, due to higher demand for fuel, cement, steel and
other construction materials and machinery, temporary shelters, medicines and other related goods and
services. The overall increase in imports over the next two and half years i s estimated to be around
U S $ 1.1billion (see Table 1);'     o f which about 50%-60% i s expected during the current fiscal year. This,
in addition to the strong import growth arising from an overheating economy, will place an additional
strain on foreign exchange reserves.

                             Table 1: RecoveryandReconstructionRelatedImports
                                                     (US$ million)
              Commodities                                                              alue
              Fuel                                                                       500
              Steel                                                                      334
              Cement                                                                       53
              Other Construction Material                                                  63
              Construction Machinery                                                      100
              Others Goods and Services                                                    50
              Total                                                                     1,100
              Source: World Bank staffestimates.


12.      To help the Government meet its immediateneeds, the World Bank has already made available to
the government US200 million o f quick-disbursing, concessional credits. Even with this immediate
assistance, a sizeable financing gap will remain in the balance o f payments. Additional donor assistance
and actions by the monetary authorities would be required to overcome the impact o f earthquake on
Pakistan's balance o fpayments (see Table 2).

B.       ProposedProgramComponents

13.      The proposed Emergency Recovery Credit would assist the Government o f Palustan in early
reconstruction and rehabilitation o f the earthquake-affected areas while maintaining macroeconomic
stability by financing critical imports related to reconstruction and rehabilitation o f earthquake affected
areas. The proposed Import Financing Component would help to provide foreign exchange to finance
imports o f a positive list o f items (Attachment I). This component would, inter alia, help finance
reconstruction and rehabilitation related imports, which, in turn, will lead to an early reconstruction and
rehabilitate assets and restore economic activity while mitigating pressure on the balance o f payments.
This component ofthe Credit will finance the import of:

    (i)      adequate supplies o f fuel and petroleum products, cement, steel and other construction
             material; and
    (ii)     construction and earth-moving machinery and spare parts to assist in reconstruction o f
             affected areas.




21This estimate is based on the calculations which show that 48.3% o f the over all reconstruction cost is related to
reconstruction and repairs o f buildings and structures. Of this cost, 70% cost i s due to materials, with cement, steel
and other materials having a share of 21%, 23% and 26%, respectively. Itis assumed that 40%, 50% and 10% o f the
additional demand for cement, steel and other material need to be met through imports so as to minimize the impact
on other construction activities and maintaining stable prices o f these materials. Estimates are other imports are
based on information available from official and non-official sources.


                                                         32

                                   Table 2: Pakistan Summary Balance of Payment
                                                    -
                                                    (US$ million)




Trade Balance                              -1,208     -4,353     -6,353    -7,096        -7,694       -8,515
   Exportsf.0.b                            12,396                17,389                 21,21         20,694
   Importsf.0.b                            13,604    18,724      23,742    24,341                     29,209
   Services(net)                           -3,594                -6,312    -6,515                     -5,212
PrivateTransfers                            6,116                 8,555                   9,067        9,069
   o/w Workers Remittances                  3,871                 4,012                   4,515        4,730
Current Account Balance                     1,314     -1,776      4,110                               -4,658
LongTerm Capital (net)                        -39      1,633      2,820                                4,526
BalanceRequiringOfficial Financing          1,275      -143      -1,290    -1,501           244        -132
Official Assistance & DebtRelief               51        855      1,766     1,766         2,581        2,581
Overall Balance                             1,326        712        476       265         2,825        2,448
IMF(net)/FCDslOutstandingbills              -915       -496        -450      -450                       -610
FinancingGap                                  411        216         26      -185         2,215        1,838
ImportFinancingfrom IDNADB                      0          0           0                                    0
Memo items:
Current account(as a %of GDP)                 1.4                   -3.2                                 -3.4
Exportsf.0.b. (growthrate, percent)          13.8       15.9       21.0      20.0          22.0         20.0
Importsf.0.b. (growthrate, percent)         20.1        37.6       26.8                    21.8         20.0
ForeignExchangeReserves(US$ m)             10,621      9,985     10,011     9,800        11,866       11,638
(Inmonthsofnextyear imports)                  5.0        3.8         3.3      3.2           3.9           3.2
Earthquake-relatedimports (US$ m)              _ _        --            0     600             0          300
Source: GoP (Ministryof Fmance) and WorldBankstaffcalculations.



 14.      The size o f this component (US$S5 million) i s determined on the basis o f the staff assessment o f
 the adverse impact o f the earthquake on the country's macroeconomic balances and on the expected aid
 from other sources.




                                                         33

                                          Attachment I

                           LIST OF PERMISSIBLEIMPORTS

No.  Code         Description

I. ListofGeneralImportsforRehabilitationandReconstruction

1.   232  Natural rubber latex; natural rubber and similar natural gums
2.   233  Synthetic rubber latex; synthetic rubber and reclaimedrubber; waste and scrap o f
          unhardened rubber
3.   244  Cork, natural, raw and waste (including natural cork inblocks or
          sheets)
4.   245  Fuel wood (excluding wood waste) andwood charcoal
5.   246  Pulpwood (including chips and wood waste)
6.   247  Other wood inthe rough or roughly squared
7.   251  Pulpand waste paper Except: 251.1Waste paper andpaperboard; scrap articles o fpaper
          or o fpaperboard fit only for use inpaper-making
8.   263  Cotton
9.   264  Jute and other textile bast fibres, raw or processedbutnot spun; tow and waste thereof
          (including pulled or garneted rags or ropes
10.  265  Vegetable textile fibres (other than cotton andjute) and waste o f such
          fibres
11.  266  Synthetic fibres suitable for spinning
12.  267  Other manmade fibres suitable for spinning and waste o fmanmade fibres
13.  268  Wool and other animal hair (excluding wool tops)
14.  273  Stone, sand and gravel
15.  281  Iron ore and concentrates
16.  287  Ores and concentrates o fbase metals, n.e.s.
17.  288  Nonferrous base metal waste and scrap, n.e.s.
18.  322  Coal, Iignite andpeat
19.  323  Briquettes; coke and semi-coke o f coal, lignite or peat; retort carbon
20.  333  Petroleumoils, crude, and crude oils obtained from bituminous minerals
21.  334  Petroleumproducts, refined
22*  335  Residualpetroleumproducts, n.e.s. and related materials
23.  511  Hydrocarbons
24.  5 14 Nitrogen-function compounds
25.  515  Organo-inorganic and heterocyclic compounds
26.  516  Other organic chemicals
27.  522  Inorganic chemical elements, oxides and halogen salts
28.  523  Other inorganic chemicals; organic and inorganic compounds o fprecious metals
29.  531  Synthetic organic dyestuffs, etc., natural indigo and colour lakes
30.  532  Dyeing and tanning extracts, and synthetic tanning materials, excluding cadmium
          containing compounds
31.  533  Pigments, paints, varnishes and related materials, excluding cadmium containing
          compounds
32.  582  Condensation, polycondensation and polyaddition products, whether or nor modified or
          polymerized, and whether or not linear (e.g., phenoplasts, aminoplasts, alkyds, polyallyl
          esters and other unsaturated polyesters, silicones)
33.  583  Polymerization       and        copolymerization      products       (e.g.,  polyethylene,
          polytetrahaloethylenes, polyisobutylene, polystyrene, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl



                                                34

         acetate, polyvinyl chloroacetate and other polyvinyl derivatives, polyacrylic and
         polymethacrylic derivatives, coumarone-indene resins)
34. 584  Regenerated cellulose; cellulose nitrate, cellulose acetate and other cellulose esters,
          cellulose ethers and other chemical derivates of cellulose, plasticized or not (e.g.,
          collodions, celluloid); vulcanized fibre
35.  585  Other artificial resins and plastic materials
36. 651  Miscellaneous chemical products, n.e.s.
47. 612  Manufactures of leather or o f composition leather, n.e.s.; saddlery and harness; parts o f
          footwear, n.e.s.
38. 621  Material o frubber (e.g., pastes, plates, sheets, rods, thread, tubes, of rubber)
39. 625  Rubber tyres, tyre cases, interchangeable tyre treads, inner tubes and tyre flaps, for
         wheels o f all kindsExcept: (1) 625.12 Tyres, pneumatic, new, or fubber, for racing cars
40. 628  Articles o f rubber, n.e.s.
41. 633  Cork manufactures
42. 634  Veneers, plywood, 'improved' or reconstituted wood, and other wood, worked, n.e.s.
43. 635  Wood manufactures, n.e.s.
44. 641  Paper and paperboard
45. 642  Paper andpaperboard, cut to size or shape, and articles o fpaper or paperboard
46. 651  Textile yam
47. 653  Fabrics, woven, of manmade fibres (not including narrow or special fabrics)
48. 658.1 Sacks and bags, o ftextile materials, o f a kindusedfor the packing of goods
49. 661  Lime, cement, and fabricated construction materials (except glass and clay materials
50. 662  Clay construction, materials andrefractory construction materials
51. 664  Glass
52. 671  Pigiron, spiegeleisen, sponge iron, ironor steel powders and shot, and ferroalloys
53. 672  .Ingots and other primary forms, o f iron or steel
54. 673  Iron and steel bars, rods, angles, shapes and sections (including sheet piling)
55. 674  Universals, plates and sheets, o f iron or steel
56. 675  Hoop and strip, or iron or steel, hot-rolled or cold rolled
57.  677 Iron or steel wire (excluding wire rod), whether or not coated, but not insulated
58. 678  Tubes, pipes and fittings, o f iron or steel
59. 679  Iron and steel castings, forgings, and stampings inthe rough state
60.  682 Copper
61. 683  Nickel
62. 684  Aluminum
63.  685 Lead for construction purposes
64.  686 Zinc
65. 687  Tin
66. 689  Miscellaneous nonferrous base metals employed inmetallurgy, and cermets
67. 691  Structures and parts o f structures, n.e.s., o f iron, steel or aluminum
68. 692  Containers for storage and transport
69. 693  Wire products (excluding insulatedelectrical wiring) and fencing grills
70. 694  Nails, screws, nuts, bolts, rivets and the like, o f iron, steel or copper
71. 695  Tools for use inthe hand or inmachines
72. 697  Householdequipment o fbase metal, n.e.s.
73. 699  Manufactures o fbase metal, n.e.s.
74. 711  Steam and other vapour generating boilers, superheated water boilers, and auxiliary plant
         for use therewith; and parts thereof, n.e.s.
75. 712  Steam or other vapour power units, whether or not incorporating boilers (including
         mobile engines but not steam tractors, steam road rollers, or steam rail locomotives); and
         parts thereof, n.e.s.



                                               35

76.  713 Internal combustion piston engines and parts thereof, n.e.s. Except: 713.2.5- Engines,
         piston, internal combustion, for annoured fighting vehicles
77.  716 Rotating electric plant andparts thereof, n.e.s.
78.  718 Other power generating machinery and parts thereof, n.e.s. Except: 718.7- Nuclear
         reactors, and parts thereof, n.e.s.
79.  721 Agricultural machinery (excluding tractors) andparts thereof, n.e.s.
80.  722 Tractors (other than those falling withinheadings 744.11and 783.2),
         whether or not fitted with power take-offs, winches or pulleys
81.  723 Civil engineering and contractors' plant and equipment andparts thereof, n.e.s.
82.  726 Printingandbookbinding machinery, andparts thereof, n.e.s.
83.  728 Other machinery and equipment specialized for particular industries, and parts thereof,
         n.e.s. Other machinery and equipment specialized for particular industries, and parts
         thereof, n.e.s.
84.  736 Machine-tools for workmg metal or metal carbides, and parts and accessories thereof,
         n.e.s.
85. 737  Metalworking machinery (other than machine-tools),              and parts thereof,    ne.s.
         Metalworkmg machinery (other than machine-tools), andparts thereof, n.e.s.
86. 741  Heating and cooling equipment and parts thereof, n.e.s. Except: (i)    741.31.10 Furnaces,
         electric, for separation or recycling o f irradiated nuclear fuels or for treatment o f
         radioactive waste; (ii)741.31.38 Ovens, non-electric, for separation or recycling o f
         irradiated nuclear fuels or for treatment o f radioactive waste; (iii) 741.32.14 Furnaces,
         non-electric, for separation or recycling o f irradiated nuclear fuels or for treatment o f
         radioactive waste; (iv) 741.32.34 Ovens, nonelectric, for separation or recycling o f
         irradiated nuclear fuels or for treatment o f radioactive waste; (v) 741.5 Air conditioning
         machines, self-contained, comprising a motor-driven fan and elements for changing the
         temperature and humidity o f air, andparts thereof, n.e.s.
87.  742 Pumps (including motor and turbo pumps) for liquids, whether or not fitted with
         measuring devices; liquidelevators o fbucket, chain, screw, band and similar kinds;parts,
         n.e.s. o f such pumps and liquid elevators Pumps (including motor and turbo pumps) for
         liquids, whether or not fitted with measuring devices; liquid elevators o f bucket, chain,
         screw, band and similar kinds;parts, n.e.s. o f such pumps and liquidelevators
88.  743 Pumps (other than pumps for liquids) and compressors; fans and blowers; centrifuges;
         filtering and purifyingapparatus; and parts thereof, n.e.s. Except: (i) 743.5.1 Centrifuges
         for separating uranium isotopes, (ii)  743.5.2 Centrifuges for separation or recycling of
         irradiatednuclear fuels or for treatment o fradioactive waste
89.  744 Mechanical handling equipment, and parts thereof, n.e.s.
90.  745 Other non-electrical machinery, tools and mechanical apparatus, and parts thereof, n.e.s.
         Except: 745.24 Automatic vending machines (e.g. stamp, cigarette, chocolate and food
         machines), not being games o f skill or chance; and parts thereof, n.e.s.
91.  747 Taps, cocks, valves and similar appliances for pipes, boiler shells, tanks, etc. (including
         pressure and temperature controlled valves)
92.  749 Non-electric parts and accessories of machinery, n.e.s.
93.  751 Office machines
94.  764 Telecommunications equipment, n.e.s.; and parts, n.e.s., and accessories o f apparatus
         falling withintelecommunications, etc.
95.  771 Electric power machinery (other than rotating electric plant o f heading 716), and parts
         thereof, n.e.s.
96.  772 Electrical apparatus for making and breakmg electrical circuits, for the protection o f
         electrical circuits, for malung connections to or in electrical circuits (e.g., switches,
         relays, fuses, lightning arresters, surge suppressors, plugs, lamp holders and junction
         boxes); resistors, fixed    or variable (including potentiometers), other than heating



                                              36

               resistors; printed circuits; switchboards (other than telephone switchboards), and control
               panels, n.e.s.; parts, n.e.s. o f the foregoing apparatus. Except: 772.3.3 Dimmers, light,
               theatre
97.    773     Equipment for distributingelectricity
98.    778     Electrical machinery and apparatus, n.e.s. Except: 772.85 Particle accelerators, and parts
               thereof, n.e.s.
99.    782     Motor vehicles for the transport o f goods or materials for Earthquake rehabilitation and
               reconstruction
100.   784     Parts and accessories, n.e.s. o f the motor vehicles falling within heading722 and 782
101.   786     Trailers and other vehicles, not motorized, n.e.s. and specially designed and equipped
               transport containers Except: (i)786.12.2 Library-trailers (ii)786.12.3 Limbers,
               ammunition, annoured or not (iii)      786.12.9 Trailers, exhibition (iv) 786.12.13 Trailers,
               furniture-removal (v) 786.81other vehicles, not mechanically propelled
102.   812     Sanitary, plumbingand heating fixtures and fittings, n.e.s.
103.   821     Furniture and parts thereof; bedding, mattresses, mattress supports, cushions and similar
               stuffed furnishings
104.   872     Instruments and appliances, n.e.s., for medical, surgical, dental or veterinary purposes
105.   873     Meters and counters, n.e.s.
106.   874     Measuring, checking, analyzing and controlling instruments and apparatus, n.e.s.; parts
               and accessories n.e.s. of the instruments and apparatus o f groups o f 873 and 874 Except:
               874.52-Instruments, apparatus or models, designed solely for demonstrational purposes
               (e.g., in education or exhibition), unsuitable for other uses
107.   892     Printedmatter
108.   893     Articles, n.e.s. o f plastics
109.   895     Office and stationery supplies, n.e.s.

11.Sector Related Importsfor the Project

1.     Community and householdrainwater tanks, fittings, fixtures, and rainwater harvesting pipingand
       harvestingequipment
2.     Desludging equipment, pumps, trailers and associated fixtures
3.     Materials for the construction o f sludge dryingbeds
4.     Community and householdseptic tanks
5.     Sanitary and plumbingfixtures and fittings
6.     Solid waste management equipment for coping with debris, including glass and wood cutters,
       composters and compactors. Solid waste management equipment for coping with debris,
       including glass and wood cutters, composters and compactors.
7.     Communal solid waste bins
8.     Plumbingandrainwater harvesting tools and installation o f solid waste management equipment.
9.     Seed
10.    Farming tools
11.    Fishprocessingequipment
12.    Urgent Purchase and import o fhelicopter fuel for use by the helicopters involved inthe relief and
       rehabilitation operations




                                                      37

I--

B.      ProposedComponent

3,      Given the above implementation arrangements, the proposed component for capacity building
consists o f two sub-components to: (i) current capabilities at all levels o f government and in all
                                           expand
sectors to effectively plan, implement, and supervise reconstruction activities; and, (ii) support the GOP's
hazard risk management capacity to deal with and mitigate the risks o f future disasters.

    a) Institutional Implementation Capacity Building: This sub-components would support (i)
        provision o f human resources and consultancy inputsat the federal, provincial, and district levels;
         (ii)continuous social impact assessments and thirdparty evaluations; (iii) and delivery o f
                                                                                       design
        training programs on financial management and streamlined implementation processes; (iv) the
        provision o f information technology connectivity and the establishment and/or improvement o f
        management information systems (MIS); (v) facilities upgrade, including infrastructure, office
        supplies and neededvehicles, and development o f a communication strategy.

      i)     Human Resources: The human resource capacity o f the key agencies involved in the
             implementation      activities-ERRA,       NWFP/AJK Reconstruction           Agencies,    District
             Reconstruction Units, as well as the line departments/district offices-will         be enhanced
             through the recruitment o f qualified technical personnel, such as planning specialists,
             implementation specialists, financial management specialists, procurement specialists,
             monitoring specialists, M I S specialists, etc. It will also support the contracting o f NGOs for
              capacity augmentation. In addition, environmental engineers and social experts will be hired
             to ensure proper social and environmental management actions are taken during
             reconstruction. Staffing arrangements will be fine-tuned according to the implementation
             needs.

      ii)    Social Impact Assessment and thirdparty evaluation: To address social issues raisedduring
             the reconstruction and rehabilitation period, a continuous social impact assessment (CSIA)
             will be undertaken to facilitate the articulation o f community perceptions, grievances and
              feedback. The CSIA will help monitor the social dimensions o f the emergency recovery
             program and flag potential risks. Through direct interaction with beneficiary communities, it
             will carry out an independent evaluation o f program implementation and distribution of
             program benefits. The CSIA study will monitor the impact o f the program and help initiate
             necessary mitigation measures.          The GOP/ERRA will contract independent research
             institutions to undertake the CSIA, and the reports will be distributed as to the relevant
              federal, provincial, and district stakeholders, as well as to fundingpartners and the public. In
             addition, to ensure quality o f reconstruction and rehabilitation interventions, independent
             thirdparty evaluations will be undertaken.

     iii) Training:Inordertodeveloptheskillsofexistingandnewstaffwitheachoftherelevant
             implementation agencies, IDA will finance training programs on topics such as procurement,
             financial   management, information technology and MIS,                operations management,
             communications, and monitoring and evaluation.
     iv)     Information Technology and Management Information Systems: Information technology
             (IT) systems would need to be put in place for communication and coordination among
             various levels of government, as well as for reporting and monitoring o f on-going programs.
             An MIS would need to be set up, or where it exists to be strengthened, to provide a platform
             for collecting and disseminating information on program implementation across the districts,
             The information technologyMIS sub-component also aims to strengthen information
             management capacity and knowledge-sharingboth horizontally and vertically among ERRA
             and the provincial and district governments. The MIS will also allow for standardization o f
             program reporting and monitoring between ERRA and ProvincialDistrict Reconstruction


                                                       39

       Units and between sectors. To facilitate this information technology program, IDA will
       provide funding for IT staff costs, software and database management, and IT hardware.
       Infrastructure and Facilities Upgrade:          Alongside the soft components needed for
       implementation capacity building, hardware - such as office supplies and furniture,
       computers, software packages, vehicles, and other office infrastructure - would be provided
       as needed. This component encompasses overhead expenses, including rent, utilities, and
       other routine costs.
       Communications Strategy: The Government faces a huge challenge o f determining and
       channeling the appropriate compensation to affected persons, and communicating details o f
       policies, awards and entitlements to affected parties inthe best possible way, and to decrease
       the level o f uncertainty among affectedpopulation; sharing knowledge and buildingtechnical
       capacity in all affected areas; facilitating and coordinating civil society and donor
       interventions; ensuring inclusion o f and justice to marginalized sections. These complex
       requirements would necessitate a continuous, multi-dimensional exchange o f information and
       technical expertise among the Government, affected populations, civil society partners, and
       secondary stakeholders, as well as a credible and transparent monitoring and vigilance
       mechanism. To deal with these issues, a Communication Strategy i s needed to enable the
       government to deal with these multiple demands. The Desired Outcomes o f the strategy
       include: consistent flow o f information provided to support coordination among multi-
       stakeholder, multi-donor activities; sustained and balanced focus maintained on the Project
       by government policymakers and implementation teams, media, donors and NGOs during
       each phase to enable sustained focus on the relief, recovery and rehabilitation program and to
       avoid overlaps and gaps; lessons documented to benefit future interventions. Specific
       activities here could include:

           Develop a communications and advocacy strategy to facilitate information exchange and
           discussion o f key issues; interview stakeholders, review background papers; include
           provisions for mobilizing and training, elements incivil society who can be effective and
           credible messengers to different target groups.

           Develop a list o f resource persons with expertise in these areas and serve as interface
           betweenmedia and experts for interviews, backgroundbriefings etc.;

           Facilitate coordination o f and synergy among the activities related to the rehabilitation
           and recovery o f the involved agencies; facilitate Government's coordination mechanisms
           to ensure synergy among the interventions o f all partners;

           Identify potential partners for implementing programs that will supplement government
           efforts;

           Identify and dialogue with media; identify sites for media personnel to visit for a more
           in-depth understanding o f issues and facilitate visits;
           Document and supervise documentation (written and AN) o f successful intervention
            stories and lessons learnt.

b) Capacity Buildingfor Hazard Risk Management: Palustan i s subject to a number o f natural
   hazards, o f which flooding, earthquakes, cyclones and droughtheat waves are the most
   significant.   Floods, droughts and landslides in Palustan tend to be frequent, seasonal, and
   localized. The snowmelt from the high mountains coinciding with the monsoon season leads to
   very large discharges o f the Indus River and its tributaries, resulting in annual floods. The
   earthquake hazard in Pakistan i s also high and derives from Pakistan's position on the eastern
   margin o f the collision o f the Indianplate with the Eurasianplate. The poor and most vulnerable



                                                40

   social groups are often the worst affected by disasters; the cumulative impacts o f disasters
   perpetuate the cycle o f poverty, as the poor tend to have few options for restoring lost assets and
   reviving their livelihoods. Given its social and economic vulnerability to natural disasters, it i s
   essential that Pakistan improves its approach to hazard risk management, and shift focus from
   emergency response to disaster prevention, through a comprehensive hazard risk management
   approach. The capacity buildingprogram inthis regardwill include the following activities:

 i)    Multi-hazard vulnerability and risk assessment: Risks from perils such as floods and
       droughts are to some extent known, but mapping o f other hazards, particularly o f seismic
       zoning and landslides, needs to be updated. A multi-hazardvulnerability and risk assessment
       study at the national level will be undertaken to identify areas at risk o f severe damage from
       future disasters. This would be the basis for developing a long term riskmitigation strategy.
 ii) Reviewof emergencypreparednessmechanisms. Acomprehensivereviewoftheexisting
       hazard risk management system in place with emphasis on the emergency response and
       preparedness mechanisms will be carried out by a team o f local and international consultants
       in consultation with relevant government agencies and representatives from the provincial,
       district and tehsil levels. The review will present the current situation and then provide
       various solutions for possible implementation, ranging from the national to the local level.
       The study will include a focus on development o f a clear-cut strategy for emergency
       preparedness and response at the national level, which builds upon existing entities and
       mechanisms already in place.        In addition, the study will recommend an approach to
       strengthen civilian hazard risk management mechanisms and emergency response as a
       complement to military involvement.          The study will take into account lessons and
       experiences o f recent relief and recovery coordination as well as different systems from other
       countries to help determine the most effective model for Pakistan.
iii) Development of a National Emergency Management Plan.                    It is envisaged that the
       development o f a National Emergency Management Planwould clarify roles, responsibilities,
       and streamline coordination across administrative levels and various stakeholders.          This
       activity would entail several consultant workshops during the course o f preparation. The
       formulation o f the national Emergency ManagementPlan would then lead to the development
       o f emergency plans at the provincialhtate as well as district levels.

iv)    Country catastrophe riskflnancing strategy: This study will design a country risk financing
       strategy to finance any potential resource gap between available ex post budget resources and
       post-disaster finding needs.       Such a strategy will provide the country with liquidity
       immediately following natural disasters. It could rely on reserves to finance frequent but not
       severe hazards (e.g., with a return period o f 5 years or less), contingent credit facilities to
       finance the mezzanine layer o f risk (e.g., events with return periods between 5 and 20 years),
       and (parametric) insurance and/or catastrophe bond to finance the upper layer o f risk (e.g.,
       events with return periods higher than 20 years).




                                               41

                                     APPENDIX V: SOCIAL PROTECTION

A.       Key Issues andImpact

 1.      The earthquake has devastated AJK and the NWFP, already among the poorest and most
vulnerable areas o f the county. Official numbers show that more than 73,000 people have died in the
earthquake, an estimated 2.8 million people have become homeless and 1.5 million have lost their jobs.
Many families have thus lost their main income earners, become widowed, and many children have lost
one or both o f their parents. The earthquake has also ledto physical and psychological disability.22

2.       Disability. An estimated 70,000 people were injured in the earthquake, and a large number o f
individuals (currently estimated to be as highas 10,000) have become permanently disabled due to spinal
injuries and amputations. Many individuals are also suffering from post-traumatic stress and other
disorders brought on by the loss o f their families, communities andjobs. The absence o f rapid medical
care i s compounding disability problems as wounds are becoming infected, with the potential for further
amputations. The disabled will require emergency psycho-social and physical rehabilitation services.
Community awareness and acceptance o f disability in the region i s limited, and the disabled often suffer
social stigma. Concerted action will be required to increase public information and education about the
disabled, and considerable efforts will be needed to integrate disabled into health and education services,
workfare and other social safety nets, and employment.

3.       Orphans. While accurate numbers are not available, an estimated 10,000 children have lost one
or more family members inthe earthquake. Inmany cases, extended families, often poor and inneed o f
financial support, are takmg care o f orphaned children. But some children have lost contact with their
family networks or have no remaining families. Some o f these children who are in shelters will require
placement with families intheir communities or regions and post placement follow up care and support.
Children who remain in shelters will require counseling as well as financial or in-kindsupport to ensure
that their basic needs, including food, clothing, education and health needs are met.

4.       Unemployed. Many households have lost their main sources o f income as a result o f the
earthquake, and need immediate temporary work as a form o f income support until their economic
circumstances stabilize. Households headed by women who have lost their main income support are
particularly vulnerable to long term poverty.        Post traumatic stress disorders are becoming further
exacerbated by lack o f gainful employment. Individuals with minor disabilities will also need temporary
work to assist them inreintegratinginto economic activity.

5.     Formal social protection support i s provided by the Ministry and Provincial Departments o f Social
Welfare. This support includes cash transfer programs, programs for the rehabilitation o f disabled, child
labor and poor vulnerable women. However, the coverage and capacity o f these programs to reach the
poor i s very limited. Aside from public programs, a number o f non-government organizations are already
involved inthe provision o f services to vulnerable groups.




~~




22The exact numbers o f vulnerable groups are not well known, but data gathering efforts are underway to determine
the exact magnitude o f affected groups.


                                                       42

B.       The SocialProtectionComponent

6.       The component would finance social welfare and care services for vulnerable groups through
performance based contracts with NGOs and other service providers for: (1) psycho-social counseling
support and rehabilitation services; (2) support for placement and follow-up care for orphans and
unattended children; and (3) temporary employment o fvulnerable groups.

Community Based Psycho-Social and Physical Rehabilitation Servicesfor Disabled

7.       This component will finance psycho-social and physicalrehabilitation services to be provided in
temporary community based centers and via their mobile units.

8.      Psycho social support services will include counseling services for individuals suffering from
post-traumatic shock and disorders. This sub-component will finance professional psycho-social support
services (e.g. doctors, psychologists, social workers, and volunteers), rapid training for community
volunteers, mobile units, and basic equipment for temporary care centers.

9.      Physical rehabilitation services will include rehabilitation and physiotherapy for the disabled.
This sub-component will finance prosthetics (e.g. artificial limbs), orthotics, (wheelchairs, crutches,)
physiotherapy and rehabilitation services (professional providers and volunteers), rehabilitation and
physiotherapy equipment, rapid training for community volunteers in rehabilitation, mobile units, and
basic equipment for centers.

10.     Social awareness through public information and education. The component will finance
public awareness education and training regarding the inclusion o f vulnerable groups into socio-economic
activity.

Placement and Follow Up Carefor Orphans and Unattended Children

11.      This component will include placement and follow up care for children without family care, some
o f whom are currently in shelters. The component will finance service to place children with extended
families and follow up care and support. The component will also finance support for the upkeep o f
children inshelters, including food, clothing, health and education.

TemporaryEmploymentfor Vulnerable Groups

12.      This activity will provide a safety net for vulnerable groups through temporary employment in
workfare programs at the local level to about 120,000 workers in 6,000 villages for about 20-30 days per
worker. Separate programs for men and women will be implemented, if the situation requires. The
primary focus would be to remove the debris and clean up villages and camps, and other small scale
activities requiring manual labor. Complimentary skill-building activities (e.g. adult literacy and basic
training) will be linked to workfare activities as needed.

C.       ImplementationArrangements

13,      The implementationarrangements will follow the structure describedinAppendix IV




                                                      43

                                          APPENDIXVI: HEALTH

A.      Overview ofDamage

1.      The October 8 earthquake affected about 4 million people in eight districts o f NWFP province
and h a d Jamu and Kashmir (AJK). According to available data, more than 73,000 people have died and
more than 70,000 have been injured. The survivingpopulation will face significant challenges due to the
approaching winter, inadequate shelter, pre-existing poor nutrition levels, and lack o f access to essential
health care following the collapse o f the health system during the earthquake. The vulnerability o f the
affected population i s likely to increase, particularly among women and children. The emergence o f new
vulnerable population sub-groups, such as widows, orphans and physically handicapped, requires social
support systems that address their specific needs.

2.      The earthquake caused significant damage to the health sector. At least 574 health facilities and
management offices were partially or fully destroyed, including 75 percent o f the first level care facilities.
The secondary care District/Tehsil Hospitals and smaller health units serving remote small mountainous
hamlets have also been destroyed. The earthquake destroyed vehicles, drug stores, cold rooms, health
staff accommodations and offices, medical equipment, and official records.           The loss o f staff was
relatively small: 21 deaths have been confirmed, in addition to the 141 staff who have sustained injuries.
Two supervisors and 19 Lady Health Workers (LHWs), which are part o f the community based PHC
program, have also died. Most o f the health staff i s traumatized, as almost all have experienced the loss
of family members or friends, household belongings, and homes.              Due to the dearth o f credible
information on the private sector prior to earthquake, the full extend o f damage to the private health i s not
yet known.

3.      The above losses have resulted in a complete breakdown o f the health system, including: i)a
complete disruption o f primary and secondary health care service provision; ii)the breakdown o f medical
supply and distribution systems; iii)the disruption o f community based service provision by the LHWs;
and iv) the paralysis o f health management at the central level inAJK, the district level inboth AJK and
NWFP, and at the facility level. The estimated damage to the health sector i s approximately Rs. 7,114
million (US$119 million) including Rs. 2,956 million (US$50 million) in NWFP and Rs. 4,158 million
(US$69 million) inAJK. The estimate includes the loss from the destruction o f health facilities, medical
equipment, furniture and vehicles; however, it does not include indirect damage due to expenditure on
treatment o f survivors, public health interventions, loss o f health staff and the impact o f psychological
trauma.

4.      The health sector also faces the additional burden o f treating the new vulnerable population sub-
groups, including the disabled, widows, and orphans, which require specialized care and services.
Significant environmental issues are likely to emerge, such as the threat o f epidemics in tented villages
and camps due to the accumulation o f waste and garbage and the collection and disposal o f debris in
affected areas. This i s likely to create an environment conducive to the spread o f communicable and
vector borne diseases, including measles, meningitis, Leishmaniasis (endemic in AJK) as well as water
borne diseases like typhoid, hepatitis A and cholera.

B.      CriticalIssues

5.      The critical issues which need to be considered include:

     e  Access toprimary and secondary health care services. The disruption o f health services has left
        nearly four million people without access to primary and secondary health care, highlightingthe




                                                       44

  need to focus on ensuring access to essential primary and preventive health and secondary care as
  the system i s rebuilt.


0 Targetingpopulationswith special needs. Women and children are the primary users o fprimary
  health care services, representing 60-65% o f the primary health care (PHC) clients before the
  earthquake and 70-75% o f the reported deaths and injuries from the disaster. The revitalization o f
  services for management o f acute respiratory infection (ARI) and diarrhea, antenatal and
  postnatal care i s a critical priority.   The recovery strategy should address the needs o f this
  population as well as the emerging needs o f persons with disabilities

  Need for detailed needs assessment and mapping by each district to assess health facility
  feasibility interms o f population movement and functional existing facilities and emerginghealth
  situation.

  Coordination of the relief and rehabilitation activities. There i s a need to further strengthen
  coordination mechanism to enhance the effectiveness o f health interventions and the emergency
  efforts.

  Health sector capacity. The existing management o fthe health sector i s weak and lacks adequate
  capacity, especially at the district level. With staff traumatized and seeking options to move out
  of the earthquake areas, it will be essential to mobilize health managers and health staff from
  other provinces to work temporarily inearthquake affected areas.


0 Taking care of healthcare workers. The psychological impact of the earthquake on health
  workers i s likely to manifest in increased absenteeism from work, insomnia, and inaction. Close
  management attention i s required, as well as understanding besides counseling, to help overcome
  the mental trauma.

  Missed opportunitiesfor health promotion and disease prevention. The contact that affected
  people have with the health sector, relief organizations, and the army should be used for health
  promotion and disease prevention, especially inrelief camps.

  Seismically Safe Health Care Facilities. The health care facilities are among the most important
  buildings in a community under any circumstances and therefore need to be constructed to be
  safer than ordinary buildingsinan earthquake prone area. A large number o f health care facilities
  were damaged and rendered dysfunctional due to their poor construction, which was no different
  than ordinary building. As part o f the reconstruction effort, the repair and construction o f
  seismically safe health care facilities will needto be a priority.


0 Reconstruction within theframework of health reforms. As the health sector faces challenges
  including a large, poorly planned PHC infi-astructure with very low utilization, it would be
  imperative that the Government:

  o Rationalizeprimary and secondary health carefacilities:            The Government should address
      redundancies within the health infrastructure as well as the low utilization o f PHC and some
      o f secondary care facilities. This can be addressed by rationalizing the tiers o f health care,
      the number o f facilities to be rebuilt, and the scope o f the secondary care facilities interms o f
      bed strength by talang into account developments such as population movements. Inaddition
      it would be useful to critically review the need for each facility in terms o f its past
      performance and the size o f the population it will serve.




                                                45

         o   Alternate management arrangements for provision of PHC Services:                The earthquake
             increased the vulnerability o f the populations in the affected districts. To ensure access to
             PHC services the Government should contract nongovernmental organizations to manage
             provision o f PHC service provision or for new services which need to be introduced.

C.      Reconstruction and Recovery Needs

6.      There i s an urgent need to revitalize primary and secondary care service provision to the affected
population, including the displaced population, to reduce vulnerabilities and save lives while the system i s
revitalized and reconstructed. The recovery should encompass the Humanitarian Charter for minimum
standards for health care, including the right to health and respect o f the dignity o f the affected
population. The strategy should be constructed on the key principles o f equity, access to essential health
care, timeliness, results and accountability. It should ensure provision o f an essential health care package
including both the prevention o f communicable diseases, especially vaccine preventable and vector borne
diseases, and MCH services. The short term priorities in the health sector include: revitalization o f the
PHC system in temporary facilities, provision o f services in tented villages, provision o f services for the
disabled, and psychological care for survivors and health care workers. Inthe medium term, priorities
include the reconstruction and re-equipment o f all levels o f the health facilities including secondary care
hospitals, community-based rehabilitation o f the disabled, and the strengthening o f health system
management.      The medium term plan should also consider developing and putting into place an
epidemiological surveillance, emergency preparedness and disaster relief system inthe health sector.

7.      The estimated total cost o f rehabilitating the health sector including new construction, repairing
                                                                     -
damaged buildings,and replacing equipment and furniture      - is approximately Rs. 15,888 million (US$265
millionincluding Rs. 5,273 million (US$88 million inNWFP; and Rs. 10,614 million (US$177 million in
AJK. Inaddition, the short and medium-term costs required to provide PHC and secondary services in
the short term and to address the needs for disability and psychosocial first aid will require another
Rs.2,125 million (US$35 million). The total health sector needs over the next five years, including new
interventions and replacing the damaged infrastructure, will cost Rs. 18,013 million (US$300 million).

D.      Proposed Project Components

8.      Generous financial, technical and human resource support has been provided from international
and national groups, NGOs, and both bilateral and multilateral development partners. In addition, the
Government o f Pakistan (GOP) has provided financing from its budget to address immediate needs. The
health sector needs for the short to medium are substantial, but there i s a strong commitment from
development partners to finance these needs. IDA support would fill financing gaps for reconstruction
effort in the health sector. At present it i s not clear which areas would require IDA resources, since
commitments from development partners are not yet fully defined.

9.      The objective o f supporting the health sector i s to restore equitable access to a better performing
health care delivery system for the population living in the earthquake affected districts.         The IDA
financing for the health sector could support the following main activities:

  a)    The revitalization of PHC and the provision of secondary care services including contracting
        NGOsto managePHC services;

  b)    The reconstruction and re-equipment o f partially or fully damaged health institutions with a focus
        on civil hospitals, rural health centers and basic healthunits; and




                                                      46

  c)    Technical assistance to strengthen management, planning, and monitoring o f the recovery effort
        inAJK andNWFP

      i)    Revitalization of PHC and Provision of Secondary Care Services. There i s an urgent need
            to revitalize PHC and secondary care to ensure provision o f essential health services,
            including public health interventions as the system i s rebuilt. The package o f services would
            include basic curative care; immunization services; maternal and child health care including
            management o f ARI and diarrhea; antenatal care and family planning; vitamin A and Iron
            supplementation; and communicable disease control interventions such as TB DOTS services
            with a regular drug supply. The component will support financing o f establishing primary
            PHC facilities inrentedor prefabricated structures andthe costs o fproviding services for two
            years through field hospitals that have already been established. The component could also
            finance the contracting o fNGOs to revitalize and manage all PHC facilities, including BHUs,
            RHCs, and dispensaries in the affected districts. The NGOs would be selected competitively
            using a performance based contract providing considerable management autonomy and
            flexibility to the NGOs to effectively manage service delivery, and should ensure means to
            monitor results through a thrdparty.

      ii)   Reconstruction and Re-Equipping of Partially or Fully Damaged Health Facilities. This
            activity would support the reconstruction and re-equipping o f partially or fully damaged
            health facilities. The health facilities considered under this component will include Civil
            Hospital, Rural Health Centers and Basic health units that have been identified as partially or
            fully damaged by the provincial/district Departments o f Health, NWFP and Department of
            Health Government o f AJK, and that have not been identified by other donors for support.
            ERRA would need to provide technical support to the Departments o f Health to ensure
            reconstructedrepairedbuildingsare seismically safe.

     iii) Technicalassistancetostrengthenmanagementandplanningandsentinelsurveillancein
            AJK and NWFP. This component will support the strengthening o f management and
            planning capacity at the district level through the placement o f professionals from the
            provincial level inNWFP and fiom other provinces in A X on secondment. The component
            could also support management and planning capacities strengthening through technical
            assistance, the development o f district master plans for the sector based on principles and
            guidelines outlined by the government, performance-based incentives to district staff for
            effective implementation o f reconstruction efforts in the health sector and monitoring and
            evaluation o f the reconstructioneffort through the Federal Ministry o f Health.

E.      Implementation Arrangements

10.    The implementation arrangements will follow the structure described inAppendix IV.

F.      Monitoring and Evaluation and Key PerformanceIndicators

11.    The implementation of the components will be monitored according to the key performance
indicatorsto be agreed with the Ministryo f Health and Departments of Health o fNWFP and AJK, ifIDA
resources are used. Monitoring indicators will include bothprocess and performance indicators, such as:


        (i)theutilizationofhealthfacilities;and
        (ii)immunization coverage o f children aged 12-23 months.




                                                     47

12.    The required data for measuring these indicators will be collected, aggregated and analyzed by
DOHAJK andNWFPand verified bythe MOH. The monitoring reports will be submittedon a quarterly
basis. The progress will also be assessedby a team of specialists fi-om the MOH at the end of a six month
period and thereafter.




                                                  48

                                      APPENDIXVII: EDUCATION

A.       Overview of Damage

1.      The most affected districts inAJK are Muzaffarabad& Neelum, Bagh, and Poonch (Rawala Kot).
Ninety five (95%) o f total institutions inthese districts, or 3,685 out of 3,879 buildings, have been either
fully or partially damaged. InNWFP, the worst affected districts are Mansehra, Batagram, Kohistan,
Abbotabad, and Shangla. Fifty three (53%) o f the buildings in these five districts have been fully or
partially damaged, or 3,984 o f a total o f 7,577 institutions. Of the damaged institutions in AJK and
NWFP, a majority are fully damaged. Mansehra, a district inNWFP, experienced the largest number o f
fully or partially damaged institutions.

2.      According to preliminary estimates, the total rehabilitation and reconstruction cost o f damage to
the education sector i s approximately Rs. 28,057 million (US$472 million). The bulk o f the damage has
been to schools-primary,       middle and higher secondary-which       account for 83% o f the institutions
damaged inAJK and 78% o f the damaged institutions inNWFP. Damage to school buildingsconstitutes
44% of the damage cost in AJK and 52 percent o f the damage cost inNWFP, while damages to private
sector institutions make up approximately 19% of total assessed costs in AJK and 26% in NWFP. In
addition to the damage to buildings, the earthquake has also
destroyed materials, furniture and equipment, and damaged
education administration buildings. For example, the 69 units in
JK University havebeen destroyed, includingdepartments, hostels,
administration block, and the Central Library. Across the affected
regions, the complete breakdown o f the social sector service
delivery has left the management paralyzed, particularly inAJK.

3.      Deaths, injuries, and trauma:     In addition to damage to
educational institutions and offices, the education sector has also
suffered a loss o f people, including students, teachers, and school
staff. According to preliminary estimates, about 18,095 students
and 853 teachers and staff died inNWFP and AJK. The death o f teachers represents not only a loss to the
teaching force, but also a loss of investmentby the government inteacher capacity development through
teacher training. Furthermore, a substantial number o f teachers, school staff, and students are likely to
suffer from emotional trauma and injuries and may require counseling services. Some students may also
have special learning needs that would require new teaching approaches and modifications for
handicapped-accessible school design. Teachers would therefore need to be trained for school-based
psychosocial support and counseling.

4.      Loss of learning time: Inthe absence o f suitable alternative spaces, the destructionand damage to
school buildings has interrupted educational activities.       There will be less time spent in learning,
particularly for students who are preparing for their national examinations at the end o f the school year.

5.      Additional information regarding damage i s available in the joint WB-ADB preliminary damage
and need assessmentreport released on November 12,2005.

B.       CriticalIssues

    i)   Transitional access to safe educational services: The most urgent requirement i s to resume
         classes at all levels. Temporary or semi-permanent structures can be used for this purpose. Care
         will need to be taken to avoid inequities inservice provision between affected students and other




                                                     49

         students, who are not affected but belong to poor families. Moreover, seismically safe education
         facilities will needto be ensured inthe longrun.

    ii)Traumatized students and stafl             Caring for traumatized staff should also be among the
         immediate steps taken. Counseling may be required for most staff and students. The resumption
         o f "routine" school activities will help establish some degree o f normalcy to the lives o f
         schoolchildren, teachers and staff. The needs o f children invarious locations shouldbe addressed
         through child profiling. The needs of girls and disadvantaged groups may be addressed by
         deploying female personnel and locating learning spaces close to homes.

    iii)Weakmanagement capacity: Managementcapacityhasbeenweakened significantlybythe
         earthquake, particularly at the district level. To augment capacity, planning for reconstruction
         should utilize empirical evidence, consultation, community participation, and participatory needs
         assessments.

    iv) Lack of transparent implementation arrangements: Managementcapacity is weak, and the task
         at hand is immense. Thus decentralized implementation arrangements with effective coordination
         and monitoring and a greater role o fthe lowest government tiers and credible civil society will be
        required

6.      Policy decisions: This i s a special opportunity to reassess and reform Social Sector Service
Delivery.    It is desirable to take the following policy decisions to make the reconstruction work
realistically suite the needs o f the areas and to avoid wastage o f scarce resources:

    i)Mappingwhereschoolsareneeded.Inthemostheavilyaffectedareas,thepopulationofschool-
         age children should be estimated to decide the appropriate number o f schools to be reconstructed
         ina prioritized way. For example, reconstruction ofnonfunctional schools may not be required.
         A government school may not be required if a private or NGO run school is meeting the
         educational needs of the area. Similarly, schools need to be provided to settlements where a
         school i s needed but where a school was not established prior to the earthquake.

    ii)Consolidationof schools. Consolidatefacilities, whereoneschoolisfeasibleinsteadoftwo,
         which were previously running with low enrollments. Rationalize school provision in terms o f
         location, number o f facilities and scope o f services.

    iii)Complement Service Delivery: Consider complimentary service delivery for provision of
         education, for example by building strategic partnerships with NGOs, the private sector, rural
         support programs and other partners.

C.       Reconstruction and Recovery Needs and Strategy

7.      Key principles:


    0    Ensure observance o f humanitarian charter o f minimum standards for social services, including
         the right to education and health and respect for the dignity o f the population
         Ensure equity
    0    Timely access to safe essential education facilities
    0    Ownership. Point o f ownership should be regarded as an important part o f the strategy. The
         involvement o f communities, and especially parents, inreconstruction will create ownership. The
         mindset will shift from "government school" to "my school" and communities will look after the
         school well



                                                       50

    0   Focus on Results and Outcomes
    0   Accountability for all, at all levels

8.      In the short term, the most urgent requirement is to resume classes at all levels and provide
psychological care for survivors and education sector staff. This would entail the provision o f temporary
and semi-permanent alternative learning spaces, the repair o f partly damaged schools, the provision o f
learning materials, and the training o f teachers to replace those who have perished. Students, where
possible, can be accommodated innearby institutions. Education administrative structures will needto be
revived. These measures in the short-term are estimated to cost Rs. 1,240 million. Developing the
strategy and the action plan for the recovery and reconstruction will entail technical assessments to
identify schools to be reconstructed and repaired. Assessments o f community education needs and site-
specific technology options inthe context o f the disaster will also need to be undertaken. This activity i s
estimated to cost Rs.60 million inthe short-term.

9.      Inthe medium term, counseling for both students and staffwill be continued. The reconstruction
and reequipping o f educational facilities, civil society engagement in reconstruction, and construction o f
seismically safe facilities will be among the necessary measures to be adopted.

10.     Inthe long term, line departments should focus on service provision with the help of the private
sector, communities and NGOs. Overall reconstruction efforts should be supervised by a federal level
agency.   Establishment o f a regulatory body with enforcement powers will be necessary for setting
standards for seismic safety o f social sector buildings, and subsequently to retrofit all facilities
nationwide.

11.     Local capacity building.of the system must be assured either by seconding staff from federal or
other provinces or by hiringstaff from the market.

D.      ProposedProgram Components

12.     The development objective i s to restore equitable access to higher quality education through
improved design of physical learning spaces, social and physical access, teacher development, and
capacity development o f the district education offices for improved service delivery.

13.     While this credit does not focus on education, resources for reconstruction o f the education sector
are expected from several donors, including ADB, Islamic Reconstruction Bank, EC, JBIC/JICA, UN
donors and other bilateral donors. UNICEFhas already assisted inrestarting educational activities intent
schools, and GOP i s starting the educational process o f using existing buildings in addition to the
establishment o f tent schools.

14.     IDAfundirtg will be made available to fill small financing gaps. The funding mightbe used for
the following main components inthe order o fpriority given as under:

    i)Books and materials:        (a) textbooks; and (b) reading and teaching materials for classroom
        activities;

    ii)CounselingandTraining:(a) studentandstaffcounselingincludingtrainingonhowtorespondto
        natural hazards infuture to save lives and property; andb) teacher training;
    iii)TechnicalAssistance: (a) consultancyservicestoimprovethedesignofphysicallearningspaces
        and to provide technical advice for community construction; and (b) monitoring educational
        outcomes;
    iv) Purposebuiltfurniture and equipment;


                                                      51

    v) CivilWorks: (a) increasingthe ratio oftoilets to the number o fteachers and students, and (b)
        other civil works.

E.      ImplementationArrangements

15.     The implementationarrangements will follow the structure described inAppendix IV.

F.      Key PerformanceIndicators,MonitoringandEvaluationArrangements

                         Table 2: Key PerformanceIndicatorsand Results Framework
    DevelopmentObjective               Outcome Indicator                Use of OutcomeInformation
    Restore equitable access to higher Net enrollment andretention, at  Information will be used to
    quality education, teacher         least, o n 80% o f the pre-      modify program strategy, if
    development, and capacity          earthquake level.                required, and adjust funding
    development o f the district                                         accordingly.
    education offices for improved
    service delivery.
    Intermediate Results               Results Indicators                Use of Results Monitoring
    Complete (a) repair o f partially  Number o f targeted educational   Results monitoring will be used
    damaged institutions; and (b)      institutions fully functional.    to take corrective measures if
    reconstruct schools through                                          reconstruction work falls short of
    improved design o fphysical                                          targets.
    learning spaces.

G.      MonitoringandEvaluation

16.     The provincial Departmento f Education (DOE)inNWFP and DOEinAJK will be responsible for
overall progress monitoring through CAU and EC respectively inNWFP and AJK. Implementation has
to take place in districts, therefore, EDOs (Education) in NWFP and District Education Officers (DEOs)
in A X and their staff at district level and below will have a vital role in monitoring the progress of
reconstruction activities. At the village level, NGOs can help monitor the community construction.
Directorate o f Teacher Training inNWFP and Director Public Instruction (Elementary Education) inAJK
will monitor teacher training. Progress monitoring will include reporting on reconstruction activities,
student enrollment and retention, provision o f books and materials, teacher recruitment and development.
ERRA will carry out impact monitoring as part of overall reconstructionprogram. Thirdparty validation
and impact monitoring will be carried out by selecting an external agency usingtransparent process.




                                                        52

                 APPENDIX    VIII: ROADS,WATER SUPPLY, AND INFRASTRUCTURE

A.     Overview of Damage

1.     The earthquake o f October 8, 2005 severely damaged infrastructure systems in 5 districts in
North West Frontier Province (NWFP) and 3 in h a d Jammu and Kashmir (AJK). A brief overview o f
the damage ineach sub-sector i s presentedbelow.

       Roads Sector:

       National Highways - The three national highways damaged by the earthquake include N-35
       (Mansehra-Pattan),     N-15 (Mansehra-Naran),    and S-2 (Kohala-Muzaffarabad).      These three
       national highways serve as the primary corridor to the earthquake affected areas in NWFP and
       AJK. Managedby the National Highway Authority (NHA), the total length o f these highways is
       about 279 km. The damaged length i s about 194 kmrepresenting 70% o f the total length.

       Provincial & Rural Roads in NWFP - In NWFP, about 2,063 km roads were damaged
       representing 31% o f the total road network in the five affected districts. O f this, 652 km are
       provincial highways that are managed by Frontier Highway Authority (FHA), 1,O 16 kmare other
       paved provincial roads managed by the districts, 367 km are unpaved districts roads, and 27 km
       are urbanroads managedby municipal agencies.

       Provincial & Rural Roads in AJK - Inthe three affected districts o f AJK about 2,366 kmroads
       were damaged. Of this 203 km are major roads, 761 km are other paved roads, and 182 km are
       unpaved roads for a total o f 1,146 km representing 45% o f the total Public Works Department
       (PWD) managed roads. The Neelam Valley road and, to a lesser extent, the Jehlum Valley road
       were severely damaged. Bothroads are the primary transport arteries inAJK. Another 1,220 km
       of local unpaved roads developed with community participation and managed by the Local
       Government and Rural Development Department (LGRDD) are damaged. This represents 44%
       o f total LGRDD-managed roads inthe affected districts.

       Water Sector:

       Damages in NWFP - As a result o f the earthquake an estimated 77,500 households have only
       partial or no water supply. 220 o f the 763 large schemes (average 300 households per scheme)
       operated by the Water and Sanitation Department are partially damaged, needing minor to major
       repair. Out o f the 3,323 small community or Tehsil Municipal Administration (TMA) operated
       schemes (hand pumps and small gravity schemes) 1,234 are partially damaged. It i s estimated
       that as many as 25,000 households may have lost their sanitation facilities in NWFP. Drainage
       systems in urban areas o f Balakot, Batagram and Besham are estimated to be 40% to 90%
       damaged.     The overall estimated cost o f damages to both PHED and community schemes i s
       Rs.482 million(US$8.0 million).

       Damages in AJK -All three large urbanwater-supply schemes are partially damaged (the supply
       o f water to urban cities has been reduced to about 62% o f system capacity). An estimated 11,400
       rural households are now without access to water and another 64,600 rural households are getting
       only partial water service. Of the 3,147 mediumto small schemes operated by the communities
       (hand-pumps and gravity), it i s estimated that 234 rural systems are completely destroyed and
       1,334 are partly damaged (minor to major repair). Inrural areas, the Government has reported
       30% damage to drainage systems. The estimated cost o f urban water damage inthe affected area




                                                   53

         i s Rs. 83 million (US$1.38 million). The estimated cost o f rural water damage i s Rs. 509 million
         (USSS.5 million).

    c . Damages to Institutional Infrastructure in NWFP - The NWFP water and sanitation
         administrative and institutional infrastructure has generally suffered only minor damages. The
         only TMA office with substantial damage i s Balakot, which suffered the loss o frecords and staff.

    d . Damages to Institutional Infrastructure in AJK - The AJK PWD administrative infrastructure
         has suffered major damage, including losses to life, property and records. Most o f the buildings
         housing the Local Government (LG) and Public Health EngineeringDepartment (PHED) staff in
         urban areas o f Muzaffarabad, Bagh and Rawalakot have either collapsed or are damaged beyond
         repair.

B.       CriticalIssues

4.       Rapid implementation will be vital to both the short and medium term multi-sector reconstruction
and recovery effort. To achieve this, implementation capacity o f some o f the concerned government
agencies responsible for recovery and reconstruction will need to be strengthened. In some cases,
inadequate capacity o f these agencies will be exacerbated due to demand for initiating major
reconstruction works in short time frames. Further, the capacity o f the local contracting and consulting
industry, nearing the saturation point even before the earthquake, will also need major enhancements to
cope with the huge influxo f earthquake-relatedreconstruction.

5,       Reconstruction activities will place heavy demands on availability o f key construction materials,
particularly bricks, cement, steel (reinforcing bars and rolled sections), bitumen, etc. Government will
need to carefully monitor prices and take timely and appropriate policy actions to ensure price stability.
Large increases inprices will not only adversely impact availability, but will also delay the reconstruction
process and constrain available financial resources. Considerationcould be given to import, on a limited
basis, o f materials where capacity for local production i s limited.

6.       For local unpaved roads there are considerable opportunities to employ local communities to
reconstruct the damaged sections usingappropriate labor-based methods. This will also supplement local
contractors' capacity. On other rural roads or road embankment works, cash-for-work or food-for-work
type approaches can be adopted. Hence, as part o f short-term efforts, it i s important that local and rural
roads are identified early on and communities or individuals employed to work on reconstruction or even
clearance o f landslide debris, and the process for their engagement i s initiated.

C.       ReconstructionandRecoveryNeeds

7.      Roads Sector: The overall estimated recovery needs for the roads sector are US$416 million.
Short- and medium-term needs include: (i)     removal o f landslide debris, installation o f temporary Bailey
bridges and opening the roads to traffic; (ii)stabilization o f road embankments to withstand the oncoming
snow, involving restoration o f retaining walls and drainage structures; (iii)comprehensive condition
survey of the damaged roads; (iv) initiation o f reconstruction o f unpaved local roads using labor-based
appropriate technology methods employing communities and individuals to create livelihood
opportunities; and (v) procurement o f civil works contracts for priority damaged pavedroads.

8.       Water Sector: The overall estimated recovery needs for the water sector are US$32 million.
Short-term efforts in this sector should focus on: (i)  rehabilitation o f partially damaged Government and
community spring/gravity water schemes, dug-wells and hand-pump infrastructure; (ii)          rehabilitation o f
partially damaged surface water (river) schemes and associated treatment plants, such as in the case o f



                                                      54

Muzaffarabad     town; (iii)rehabilitation o f partially damaged water distribution networks; (iv)
rehabilitation o f communal latrines; (v) initiation o f a solid waste management program for clearing and
recovery o f debris; (vi) provision o f basic buildings for AJK Government staff supporting water and
sanitation related agencies; and (vii) development o f water quality and source monitoring, and leakage
detection programs. Medium-term priorities will focus on: (i)         provision o f water distribution networks
for reconstructed settlements; (ii)  provision o f water systems for selected new settlements resulting from
land readjustment and small-scale relocation schemes; (iii)         drainage and/or sewerage for reconstructed
settlements; (v) formalization o f solid waste management schemes inlarge towns; (vi) reconstruction o f
full AJK Government PWS and LGRDD offices; and (vii) upgrading o f sector facilities for disaster
preparedness.

D.       ProposedProgramComponents

9.       This componentz3 will finance goods, works, services and cash grantshredit associated with
infrastructure repair, rehabilitation, and reconstruction. The World Bank i s financing reconstruction o f
the national highways through additional financing o f its ongoing Highways Rehabilitation Project.
Eligible sub-sectors under the ERC component include: (i)           provincial highways and roads; (ii)    district
roads; (iii)sub-district and community roaddearthen paths; (iv) water supply & sanitation; (v)
telecommunications; (vi) public buildings across different sectors such as education, health, works &
services, and water supply & sanitation; and (vii) community infrastructure such as community buildings,
irrigation channels, etc.

10.      The overall strategy and project design needs to be responsive to the short and medium term
needs identified above. Therefore, the infrastructure project shall be prepared broadly according to the
following guidingprinciples:

         Ensure restoration and connectivity o f priority provincial highways and the core district roads
         network with the national highway network, in order to improve the overall transport logistics
         chain from rural communities to urban centers.

         Restore and develop community level economic and social infrastructure, with a focus on (i)         rural
         transport infrastructure and services, and (ii) rural water supply and sanitation infrastructure.

         Strengthen safety nets through: (i)  labor-intensive, cash-for-work workfare programs to support
         rural livelihoods; and (ii)  cash grantshredit to support transport entrepreneurs, including the
         mechanics, vendors, etc.

         Consistency with the housing sector strategy and overall approach, in particular water and
         sanitation services will complement predominantly in-situ rebuilding and rehabilitation o f
        housing.

         ImplementationArrangements

         The implementation arrangements will follow the structure described inAppendix IV.

         Key PerformanceIndicators,MonitoringandEvaluationArrangements

        Key performance indicators include:



23Investments subject to the Banks safeguardpolicies o n Safety o f Dams (OPBP 4.37) and Projects o n International
Waterways (OPBP 7.50) are not eligible under the ERC.


                                                        55

            (i)     The number o f kilometers o froads repairedrehabilitatedreconstructed;
            (ii) The number of water supply and sanitation facilities repairedrehabilitated
                    reconstructed; and
            (iii)   The number o f tons o f properly disposed debris.

13.    These indicators will be monitored through periodic progress reports, disbursement reports, and
supervision reports.




                                                   56

                                                                                                                                        APPENDIXIX: AGRICULTURE


A.        Overview of the Damageand ItsImpact

1.        The earthquake has caused major depletion in agricultural assets that were available for
generating livelihoods for thousands o f affectees, and has disrupted normal agricultural and livestock
production systems. The damages to standing crops o f maize, rice and fodder, which could not be
harvested; damages to stocks o f food and inputs, which were buried under collapsed houses; and damages
to fruit and other trees are significant. Damage to irrigation infrastructure, terraces and agricultural fields
due to landslides was also substantial. Livestock causalities were also severe in some parts o f the
earthquake hit areas (Table 1).

                                                                                                       Table 1: Overview of Agriculture Sector Damage

                                                                                                                                                   Direct Damages                                                                                                                 Indirect Losses
           Crops                                                                                                                 Damage to standing crops.                                                                                                                 Inability to plant Rabi crops.
                                                                                                                                 Loss o f food and input stocks.
                                                                                                                                 DamageAoss o fterraces and
                                                                                                                                 fields.
         ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................s
                                                                                                                                 Damage to trees.
           Infrastructure                                                                                                        Damage to irrigationfacilities                                                                                                            Reduced irrigation capacity
                                                                                                                                 DamageAoss o f terraces and                                                                                                               for cropping.
                                                                                                                                 fields.                                                                                                                                   Reducedland for crops.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..............................................................................................................
           Other Crop Related                                                                                                    Damage/collapse o f                                                                                                                       Reduced capacity to cultivate.
           Damages                                                                                                               agricultural extension and                                                                                                                Lower yields and labour
                                                                                                                                 research buildings.                                                                                                                       productivity.
                                                                                                                                 Loss o f farm equipment and
         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                                                                                machinery.
           Livestock                                                                                                            Animal mortality                                                                                                                           Animal productivity losses.
                                                                                                                                Damagekollapse o f animal
                                                                                                                                 sheds.
                                                                                                                                 Loss o f stocks o f feed, fodder
                                                                                                                                 and inputs.
                                                                                                                                 Livestock and dairy
                                                                                                                                 development buildings
                                                                                                                                 damagedlosses.

2.        Maize i s the main cereal crop in the area. Harvesting was underway when the earthquake struck.
That part o f the crop which was already harvested has been buried under collapsed houses or stores, or
has rotted if left unattended in the fields. Standing crops of maize have been mostly destroyed since
owners were unable to harvest. Rice harvest was also underway and due to the earthquake, the harvest has
not been completed. This has ledto shattering and grain loss, which will increase with time. Inthe cases
of grasses, which are used for fodder duringthe winter, grass cutting was abandoned and not collected for
fodder. Estimatedlosses o f crops inthe affected areas range from 30 to 75 percent.

3.       Major disruption in the Rabi crop season i s anticipated. Stocks o f seeds (wheat and winter
vegetables such as turnips, onions, radish and cabbage) for the upcoming season have been lost due to the
collapse of houses and stores. Wheat i s the main crop planted in the Rabi season, and the last planting
date i s the end o f November. At lower altitudes, where tractors are available for cultivation, there are
already signs that cropping i s underway; however, the capacity at higher altitudes to get a crop into the
ground i s greatly reduced, and it i s unlikely that there will be much planting at all. Inthe earthquake-hit


                                                                                                                                                                                                              57

areas, most households have fruit trees, with a highproportion o f soft fruits at lower altitudes. Much o f
the fruit already harvested was destroyed. InNWFP and AJK many tractors which are used on flatter
landhave been lost or damaged.

4.       The affected area has large infrastructure in terms o f field bunds and terraces for rainwater
harvesting and channels for irrigation, which have been damaged.           In some cases deep cracks have
formed which have caused splitting across terrace retaining walls. Cracks appear to run deep into the
subsoil. At the onset o f rains and heavy winter weather there i s a strong likelihood o f further landslides
that will hinder farm activities and block access. Insome places, terraces and retaining walls have often
fallen and collapsed over long stretches. Land slippage has caused the shifting o f entire ledges o f soil, in
effect creating entirely new terraces. The slope o f the land has in some cases changed; substantial re-
grading will be required to give rise to new slopes on irrigated lands. Water distribution systems will
have to be completely re-aligned inmany places. Increasingly, terraces are being used to erect tents and
other temporary shelters, further depleting the area available for immediate cultivation. Many natural
springs have dried up, which will create problems not only for crops but will also impact drinking water
supplies for both humans and animals. InNWFP, it i s estimated that 50 to 60 percent o f the irrigation
structures have been damaged. Insome o f the hardest hit areas o f AJK and NWFP, entire fields have been
lost due to land slides.

5.       Livestock keeping i s one o f the key activities inthe areas affected by earthquake. It i s one o f the
main forms in which assets are held and provides the bulk o f the value o f output at farm level. The
earthquake caused a huge number o f casualties among livestock. Livestock are usually kept in sheds or
rooms alongside or underneath human dwellings. Animal housing are made o f stone, timber and a thick
layer o f earth on top (sometimes up to 30-50 c m thick) to keep out the cold. Duringthe earthquake, these
structures collapsed. The fall o f the heavy roof on top o f animal caused highmortality (up to 100 percent
inthe worst affectedareas). There are variations inmortality figures, depending on the extent to which
animals were moved outside the sheds before the earthquake that morning. The land and rock slides
caused by the earthquake also resulted in a large number o f deaths and injuries among these people and
their livestock. A reduction in livestock numbers in households continues as animals abandoned by
affected families are dying or are being sold or slaughtered in anticipation o f the harsh winter and a lack
of fodder and housing.      Surviving animals, particularly lactating buffaloes, are likely to face large
reduction in yields due to lack o f feed and shelter, since buffaloes are subtropical animals and the cold
substantially reduces milkproduction.

6.       In addition to crops, livestock and irrigation infrastructure losses, other aspects of agricultural
services and rural life have been seriously affected and hampered. Agriculture support facilities such as
research centers, laboratories, training centers and extension centers have collapsed or have suffered
severe damage. Animal health facilities (veterinary stations and clinics) have been damaged. Stocks o f
medicines and other supplies have also been destroyed due to collapse o f structures as well as the
electricity cut which lasted for several days after the earthquake. The capacity o f rural families to rebuild
their livelihoods has been compromised by an enormous loss o fpersonal possessions. Cash held at home
has not yet been recovered, buried in the ruins o f people's homes, often under tons o f mud or rubble.
Jewelry i s another very common means o f saving in the rural population, and this has suffered a similar
fate.

7.       The most recent damage assessment (after the completion o f the Damage and Needs Assessment)
puts the overall damage to Rs. 16.7 billion (US$279) in AJK and Rs. 7.8 billion (US$130 million) in
NWFP at a total estimated damage o f $410 million (Table 2).




                                                       58

                         Table 2: Estimates of Damages and Losses inAJK and NWFP




  AJK
  Livestock                8.3              3.6          11.9         137.7          60.0         197.7
  Crop                     4.3              0.3           4.6         72.1            5.0          77.1
  Irrigation               0.2              0.0           0.2           4.0                         4.0
           Total          12.8              3.9          16.7        213.8           65.0         278.8
  NWFP
  Livestock                3.9              2.4           6.3         64.7           39.5         104.2
  Crop                     1.3              0.2           1.5         21.7            3.0          24.7
  Irrigation               0.1              0.0           0.1           1.3                         1.3
           Total           5.3             2.6            7.8         87.6           42.5         130.2
  AJK+NWFP
  Livestock               12.1              6.0          18.1        202.4           99.5         301.9
  Crop                     5.6             0.5            6.1         93.8            8.1         101.8
  Irrigation               0.3             0.0            0.3           5.3                         5.3
           Total         18.1              6.5           24.5        301.4          107.6         409.0


B.        Rehabilitation Needs and Strategy

8.        Recovery of farm production systems. The earthquake has severely damaged or destroyed crops,
soils, trees, livestock, machinery, equipment and infrastructure. The highest rehabilitationpriority should
be to help farmers and other persons reliant on agriculture (landless laborers, traders, processors and input
suppliers) to restart production and trade.       This should include support for quick impact activities,
including clearing cultivated areas o f debris and restochng of animals. The clearing o f debris, and
irrigation and drainage canals, could be organized by the Public Works Departmentwith the collaboration
o f communities, which could be funded by cash-for-work programs, or other arrangements. Talung up
such work through affected communities will serve two purposes: (i)       restoring land productivity and (ii)
restoring productive capacity and dignity o f victims. Seeds and fertilizer have to be provided, and lost or
destroyed tools, machinery and equipment, and livestock, have to be replaced. Every effort should be
made to incorporate local self-help actors inseed and seedling production nurseries to meet demand. Any
public distribution of assets should also be targeted to those most in need and done transparently with a
clearly defined arbitration and dispute settlement mechanism.

9.        Targeting communities and vulnerable groupshouseholds most in need.                As part o f the
rehabilitation strategy, it i s important to train local government staff in rapid damage assessment and in
participatory planning methods to create capacity to identify the communities most inneed o f assistance,
and the most urgent and longer-term reconstructionneeds o f communities. This will need to be gender
sensitive and must recognize and cater to the special needs o f the landless and other vulnerable groups
such as orphans and the physically handicapped. For the short-term recovery activities, first priority will
be given to assisting the most devastated communities inthe Districts o f Muzaffarabad, Bagh, Mansehra
and Battagram, which are most in need o f assistance.          Second priority will be given to recovering
agricultural productioninthe less affectedlocations, which are presently easily accessed. Such a strategy
will ensure that resources reachthe needy and will assist displaced people to return as quickly as possible
to their communities, thereby reducingtheir dependence on aid.

10.       Introduction of Appropriate New Technologies.          There i s vast experience in introducing
appropriate new technologes in food and estate crops, livestock, ago-forestry, on- and off-farm storage
and processing, and in small-scale income generating activities. This includes such things as Integrated
Pest Management, Integrated Nutrient Management, improved integrated farming systems, and small


                                                       59

income generating activities. The approach will be to mobilize this experience to help the affected
farming families.

11.     Integrated Approach to Improving Livelihoods.            The agriculture strategy emphasizes an
integrated approach to livelihood improvement whereby farming households become the focus o f
attention. This will require a holistic approach recognizing all productive interests o f households, which
may include food crops, orchards, livestock or other income generating activities. Extension personnel
will need to be trained on how to undertake such an approach, and will need to work as a team, at times
with agriculture and forestry extension staff, to be able to respond to the diverse production and income
generation needs o f the people.     Activities supported through the agnculture plan will need to be
integrated with the activities supported through other sectoral plans, especially agriculture, forestry and
industry.

12.     Major efforts are underway to provide immediate relief to help overcome the winter. These
include provision o f seeds for the Rabi crop (wheat, vegetables, fodder, etc.), and feed and shelter for the
animals. However, with the approach o f the spring, farmers will clearly like to start productive activities
on a larger scale including planting o f maize, which i s their main cereal crop; restocking o f animals;
rebuilding o f animal shelter and repair reconstruction o f infrastructure, particularly irrigation. Financial
help would be required for this along with support services such as animal health and introduction o f new
technologies such as construction o f earthquake proofhousing for animals.

13.     Inimplementingthese strategies andactivities, the needs anddesire ofthe affectedpopulationhas
to be taken into consideration. These include important findings o f recent assessments carried out inthis
regard such as:


     0  The rural population has a strong preference to stay on or, if they have left for the winter, to
        return to their farm. This preference i s due to social and economic factors including the fact that
        valuables and cash may be buried under debris, and that livestock, which i s their main asset,
        cannot easily stay at camps or other collection points, where there i s no space for shelter nor the
        possibility o f grazing.

     0  They will restart productive activities as soon as possible to reduce their dependence on external
        relief supplies. This will include planting crops and caring for their animal.

     0  Financial and technical support that helps them in restarting economic activities would be most
        critical. However, markets may remain disrupted for some time and there i s a need to channel
        support that takes account o f this.

14.     While there i s an urgent need to restart the economy and rebuild economic and social
relationships, there must be a clear-cut and deliberate attempt not to recreate poverty and unsustainable
livelihoods. Key strategc actions that will be instrumental to this are:


     0  to empower communities and community-based organizations to take a leading role in the
        planning, implementation and management o f the activities supported through the program;

     0  to restart the rural economy by helping production to recover and markets to start functioning;

     0  to introduce appropriate technologies and extensionmethods;

     0  to invest inenabling and facilitating infrastructure;

     0  to create support services which are efficient and responsive to the needs o f the people; and




                                                      60

        to invest in community involvement in moving into new economic activities that are
        economically and financially viable, and to create employment opportunities that are
        environmentally sustainable

C.      ProposedProgramComponents

15.     Program Objectives. The main objective o f the Program would be to rebuild agriculture and
rural livelihoods in the affected areas through selected quick impact activities, which are aimed at:
(i) farmersrevivetheircrop/livestock productionsystems; and(ii)
   helping                                                                       restoring some o f the most
essential agriculture support services.

16.     Program Components. The following are the main program components for the rehabilitation o f
the agriculture sectoP4:

a) Reviving Agriculture and LivestockProduction

17.      Support would be provided to rejuvenate the rural economy. Many earthquake affected people
remained on the land or will return as soon as weather conditions allow. They need to be provided
essential inputs,materials and equipment to start farming. The program would fund: (i)       agricultural input
packages for the Kharif 2006 crop; (maize seed; fodder crop seed; vegetable seed and, fertilizer); (ii)
livestock packages, (iii) infi-astructurepackages and, (iv) restoration o f support services.

18.      The input packages would be distributedinall the 153 Union Councils affected by the earthquake
(89 inAJK and 64 inNWFP) -provided that these can be reachedby motorisedtransport. The proposed
amount would be sufficient to cater to the needs o f about half the farming households in the affected
areas. The Union Councils (UCs) would be required to prepare lists o f households to which the packets
would be distributed. The beneficiary households would be selected by the UCs with priority given to
small farmers (owning less that 0.5 ha o f cultivated land). Some 26,000 farm families in AJK and some
22,000 families inNWFP would be provided these inputpackages. Distribution would be supervised by a
committee comprising representative o f MINFAL, line departments, NGOs, Local Councils and FAO.
Such committees have already been formed invarious UCs and play an important role ininput supply.

19.      The program would fundlivestockpackage that comprises the following:

    0    Shelter for livestock: The program would provide assistance for construction o f new animal
         sheds. These sheds would be built using improved design and materials. Farmers would be
         provided with kits, including materials and detailed instructions about building. The Department
         would also work with the Union Councils to provide training to farmers for construction o f these
         improved units. Distributionwould be undertaken by various agencies.

    0    Feed packages: The feed packages would be distributed in the same way as the packages for
         crops inputs, with priority being given to families with not more than two cattle or buffaloes. In
         AJK, the feed package would be given to 20 000 animals (seven percent o f population).              In
         NWFP, the feed package i s for 9 000 lactating animals which i s five percento f the population.

    0    Restocking. Restocking would be done by supplying 1500 lactating buffaloes inAJK and 1200
         buffaloes inNWFP.
20.      The program will also fund repair and rehabilitation o f communal infrastructure including the
following


24Investments subjectto the Banks safeguardpolicies on Safety ofDams (OPiBP 4.37) andProjectsonInternational
Waterways (OPiBP7.50) are not eligible underthe ERC.


                                                     61

    0    Irrigation: Funds would be provided to communities for repair and reconstruction o f irrigation
         facilities.   The program would provide materials and, where required, pre-cast sections o f
         irrigation channels. Communities would be required to organise labour but the program would
         partially pay for this. Thirty irrigation schemes would be covered in AJK and 20 in NWFP
         respectively.

    0    Other Infrastructure:     Funds would also be provided to repair or reconstruct other types of
         communal infrastructure including tracks, culverts and drinking water for humans or livestock.
         Wherever possible, pre-cast sections and pieces should be used. Terraces would be improved for
         500 hectares in AJK, which i s three percent o f the total terraced area. InNWFP, field terraces
        would be rehabilitatedon 200 hectares representing five percent o f total terraced area.
b) RestoringEssential SupportSewices

21.      The program would provide funding for material, equipment and supplies for restoring high
priority support services. The services that will be financed under the program include:

    0   Animal Health System: The program would provide support to prevent epidemics and diseases
         among livestock. Animals which have over-wintered in the area are likely to be weak and new
         animals may bring diseases. Key activities would include vaccinations for large and small
        ruminants, deworming for small ruminants and vaccinations against Newcastle Disease for
        poultry. Essential vaccines would be provided for carrying out a vaccination campaign in early
         2006 with second a dose after 6 months. Inthe case o fpoultry the vaccines would be provided to
         farmers through the community animal health worker for use inthe villages.

    0   Nurseries for Fruit and Timber Trees: Fruit and timber tree planting i s likely to be an important
         activity as farmers return to their lands. Tree planting will be important to stabilize soils and help
        rebuild terraces. At the same time, with less labor likely to be available for a number o f years,
         farmers would find it difficult to cultivate as much land as before. Tree planting offers a high
        return alternative on this land. The program would provide funds to restart public as well as
        private nurseries. This would include essential materials (plastic bags, seeds, etc); replacement o f
         damaged equipment; and provision o f building materials to repairh-econstruct buildings, If
        necessary a supply o f seedlings may have to be provided to these nurseries from other parts o f
        Palustan.

    0   Repair or reconstruction o f key facilities and offices: The program would provide funds for the
        repair or reconstruction o f key Government facilities such as the laboratories, animal health
        clinics, offices. Associated office furniture and equipment would also be provided.

D.      Implementation Arrangement

22.     The implementation arrangements will follow the structure described inAppendix lV

E.      Key PerformanceIndicators,Monitoring and Evaluation

23.     The expected outcomes o f the program would be to: (i) the crop production system back to
                                                                  bring
the pre-earthquake level in terms o f area and productivity within one year; (ii)      return the earthquake
damaged irrigation infrastructure to operational conditions guarantying water conveyance to farmers; (iii)
help farming communities in the restocking o f their livestock and maintain andfor improve the
productivity o f the livestock thorough proper feeding and provision o f health services.




                                                      62

   APPENDIX      x: ENVIRONMENTAL        AND SOCIAL SCREENING AND ASSESSMENT             FRAMEWORK

A.       Introduction

1.       The earthquake o f October 8, 2005 left widespread destruction in its wake in A X and eastern
NWFP. These areas have suffered extensive damage to economic assets and infrastructure, with social
service delivery, commerce and communications either debilitated or destroyed. At the request o f the
Government of Pakistan, IDA i s financing an Emergency Recovery Credit to support the reconstruction
and recovery efforts. The main areas for IDA support are: (i)       Import financing for early recovery; (ii)
Livelihood support; (iii)   Housing reconstruction; and (iv) Capacity building; as well as contingency
arrangements for social protection, health, education, roads, water supply and other infrastructure, and
agriculture.

2.       Project components and activities eligible for fundingunder this project will be required to satisfy
the World Bank's safeguardpolicies, in addition to conformity with relevant safeguards legislation o f the
Government o f Pahstan (GOP).         World Bank policies and guidelines, pertaining to environmental
safeguards, which may require consideration under this project are OP/BP/GP 4.0 1 Environmental
Assessment; OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement; OP/BP 4.10 Indigenous Peoples; OPN 11.03 Cultural
Property; OP 4.37 Safety of Dams; OP 4.04 Natural Habitats; and OP 7.50 Protection o f International
Waterways.       A s details o f specific sub-projects and activities are yet to be finalized, specific
environmental and social issues cannot be identified at this stage. Therefore, an Environmental and
Social Safeguards Assessment Framework (ESSAF) has been prepared, based on which project specific
safeguards assessments will be conducted once sub-projects and activities have been identified. Insuch
circumstances, OD 4.01 requires that arrangements be made whereby the project implementing
institutions undertake the functions o f sub-project screening, EA review and implementation o f mitigation
and monitoring plans.

3,       This document summarizes the Environmental and Social Safeguards Assessment Framework,
which i s a template, and will form the basis for undertaking sub-project specific environmental and social
analysis once the specific sub-projects and activities are identified. The ESSAF i s being submitted inlieu
of a project EA and has formed the basis for appraising the environmental and social aspects o f the
project. It has also been made available for public review and comment inrelevant locations in Pahstan
and in IDA'S Public Information Center in accordance with BP 17.50 requirements o f disclosure.
Detailed environmental analysis for individual sub-projects and activities will be carried out by
implementing agencies and will be reviewed and cleared by the Federal Environmental Protection
Agency and/or the NWFP and AJK Environmental Protection Agencies, under prevailing national
environmental legislation inPakistan and the World Bank.

B.       Objectives of the ESSAF

4.       The Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF) provides general
policies, guidelines, codes o f practice and procedures to be integrated into the implementation o f the
initial phase o f World Bank-supported emergency reconstruction operations inPakistan. This Framework
has been developed to ensure compliance with the World Bank's safeguard policies in connection with
the emergency earthquake reconstructionwork inPakistan. The objective o f the ESSAF i s to ensure that
activities under the proposedreconstructionoperations will address the following issues:


     0   Protect human health;

     0   Prevent or compensate any loss o f livelihood;




                                                      63

    e   Minimize environmental degradation as a result o f either individual subprojects or their
        cumulative effects;

    e   Minimize impacts on cultural property; and

    e   Enhance positive environmental and social outcomes.

C.      General Principles

5.      Recognizing the emergency nature o f the proposed relief and reconstruction operations and the
related need for providing immediate assistance, while at the same time ensuring due diligence in
managingpotential environmental and social risks, the ESSAF i s based on the following principles:

    e   The proposed operations will support multiple subprojects, the detailed designs o f which may not
        be known at appraisal. To ensure effective application of the World Bank's safeguard policies,
        the ESSAF provides guidance on the approach to be taken during implementation for the
        selection and design o f subprojects and the planning o fmitigation measures;

    e   Environmental category `A' subprojects are not expected. If any do occur, EAs for specific
        subprojects will be prepared during implementation, instead o f before appraisal. Corrective
        measures in the form o f an Environmental Management Plan will be built into either the
        emergency project or a future lending operation. The above i s in accordance with paragraph 13
        o f OP 4.01 and paragraph 5 o f BP 4.01;

    e   No resettlement issues are expected inany o f the FY04 operations for the first year's subprojects.
        If any do occur, Resettlement Plans'(RPs), and/or Resettlement Policy Frameworks for specific
        subprojects will be prepared.      However, these RPs can be prepared during implementation,
        provided a waiver on the submission o f RPs prior to appraisal i s given by the MD. The waiver
        would also specify a timetable for the preparation o f the RPs, inaccordance with the requirements
        of OP 4.12, duringimplementation;


    0   The proposed emergency reconstruction operations might finance feasibility and detailed design
        studies for these subsequent investments, which will include environmental assessments and
        social studies as requiredby World Bank safeguardpolicies;

    e   Project design and subproject selection will aim at maintaining regional balance and equity
        among ethnic and religious groups inthe affected areas o f North West Frontier Province (NWFP)
        and Azad Jammu Kashmir (AJK), considering variations in population density. Employment
        opportunities within the projects will be available on an equal basis to all, on the basis of
        professional competence, irrespective o f gender or ethnic or religiaus group. Inall projects which
        require consultations with local communities or beneficiaries, consultations will be conducted to
        elicit the views o f the male and female population; and

    e   Consultation and disclosure requirements will be simplified to meet the special needs of these
        operations. This ESSAF will be disclosed in the sector ministries and other public places in
        Palustan and inthe World Bank Infoshop.

D.      Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF)

6.      The ESSAF has been developed specifically for the proposed operations to ensure due diligence,
to avoid causing harm or exacerbating social tensions, and to ensure consistent treatment o f social and
environmental issues by all donors and the Governing o f Palustan. The purpose o f this Framework i s also



                                                     64

to assist the Project Implementing Agencies in screening all the subprojects for their likely social and
environmental impacts, identifying documentation and preparation requirements and prioritizing the
investments.


7.      OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. Most o f the proposed subprojects are likely to focus on the
repair, rehabilitation, reconstruction and upgrading (where necessary) o f damaged buildings, roads,
bridges and infrastructure o f critical importance.    This would include water supply and sanitation,
agricultural infrastructure, irrigation and drainage networks including health care facilities and
rehabilitation o f primary and secondary schools as well as tertiary education facilities. Support may also
be provided to restore degraded ecosystems, once studies to assess the damage on ecosystems are
completed. The work in these areas will be done under OP 4.01 and it i s anticipated that OP 4.04 on
natural habitats may be triggered as well.


8.      Considering the nature and magnitude o f potential environmental impacts from relatively limited
scale and magnitude of reconstruction works, the proposed operations are likely to be classified as
category `B'. The requirement to carry out an Environmental Analysis as part o f project preparation can
be waived but, for subprojects with potential adverse impacts, a limited Environmental Analysis will be
done duringproject implementation. At the same time, prior to appraisal the implementing agency will
agree to apply the following minimum standards during implementation: inclusion o f standard
environmental codes o fpractice (ECOP) inthe repair and reconstruction bid documents o f all subprojects;
review and oversight o f any major reconstruction works by specialists;                  implementation o f
environmentally and socially sound options for dispo9sal o f debris; and provisions for adequate budget
and satisfactory institutional arrangements for monitoring effective implementation.

9.      OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement. The need for involuntary resettlement or land acquisition in
specific subproject areas will only be known duringproject implementation, when site-specific plans are
available. Therefore subprojects will be screened for applicability o f the resettlement policy and any
subprojects involving involuntary resettlement or land acquisition will only be approved after preparation
of a resettlement plan acceptable to the Bank.        The safeguards framework will therefore include
procedures for identifying eligible project-affected people, calculating and delivering compensation, and
mechanisms for land dispute grievance redress.

10.     Although land disputes o f affectees o f natural disasters are not covered by OP 4.12, the policy
does cover those displaced by the project's activities. Even for those not covered by the policy, and to
ensure effective poverty reduction, it i s good practice for the borrower to undertake a social assessment
and implement measures to minimize and mitigate adverse social impacts, particularly on poor and
vulnerable groups. Well documented consultation mechanisms will be required to establish eligibility for
compensation. Absent refugees who later claim compensation will require clear legal remedies to resolve
or adjudicate disputes.

11.     OP/BP 4.10 Indigenous Peoples. There are no known indigenous peoples living inthe affected
areas and ethnicity is in any case only one o f many factors determining vulnerability in the present
situation in Pakistan. In this perspective, a social assessment with focus on potential vulnerability
covering all affected groups is planned to ensure effective consultations and culturally appropriate
benefits for each group, instead o f focusing only on groups defined as "indigenous peoples". As part of
this analysis, subproject preparationwill assess the vulnerability o f different groups inparticular project
contexts (interms of potential exclusion from project benefits, negative project impacts, and the need for
specific culturally compatible mechanisms for participation, e.g. for women, permanently disabled), and
will incorporate adequate measures to address such vulnerability inproject design.




                                                    65

12.      OPN 11.03 Cultural Property. The emergency operations may pose limited risks o f damaging
cultural property, assuming that they will not include large-scale excavations, movement o f earth or
demolition. Nevertheless, projects and subprojects will be reviewed for their potential impact on cultural
property and clear procedures will be required for identification, protection o f cultural property from
theft, and treatment o f discovered artifacts, and will be included in standard bidding documents. While
not damaging cultural property, subproject preparation may later identify and include assistance for
preservationo f historic or archeological sites. Ifthese opportunities occur, cultural property management
plans would be prepared for those subprojects.

13.      OP 4.37 Safety of Dams. There are 2 dams over 15 meters high in AJK (Mangla Dam) and
NWFP (Tarbela Dam), but were outside the area o f influence o f the earthquake. Investigation done on
these dams shows no impact or loss o f structural integrity due to the earthquake. Therefore, these dams
will not be included inthe operations. However, because of local site conditions, even restoring smaller,
earthen dams and linked irrigation infi-astructure (partly abandoned, damaged or destroyed by civil unrest
and war) will require application o f standard engineering safety codes, inspection and evaluation o f their
safety status, and preparation and implementation o f operation and maintenance procedures. Decisions
on dam safety requirements will be made with the concurrence o fthe Bank.

14.      OP 4.04 Natural Habitats. The earthquake may have damaged sensitive ecosystems and natural
habitats due to landslides. While the extent o f such damage i s not known at this time, studies that will be
conducted to assess damage to ecosystems and natural resources will be identify such damage or
degradation, if any. Subsequently, ecosystem restoration activities are proposed and may be funded under
this operation or by another donor agency. In addition, since the World Bank will not support sub-
projects that involve conversion o f critical natural habitats such as in Declared Forest Reserves, Wildlife
Reserves and National Parks and Sanctuaries, an EA i s required prior to initiation o f the specific sub-
project that may involve the conversion o f naturalhabitats. Decisions on actions and requirements will be
made with the concurrence o f the Bank.

15.      OP 7.50 Projects on International Waterways. There are two major rivers inthe affected area
that are shared with India-Jhelum      and Neelum-which      eventually become part o f the Indus. There i s a
water sharing agreement between India and Pakistan in place. There are also potential water sharing
issues with downstream users in provinces o f Pakistan.           Components affecting waters in riparian
neighbors and downstream users will trigger the policy and project components will be screened to
identify riparian issues and to ensure adequate notification, as required under the policy. Decisions on
actions and requirements will be made with the concurrence o fthe Bank.

E.       SafeguardScreening andMitigation

16.      A Social Assessment (SA) will be conducted to provide a baseline and inform the project
regarding the applicability o f the Framework in specific cases while a continuous social impact
assessment (CSIA) will facilitate the articulation o f community perceptions, grievances and feedback
vis-&-vis identification o f beneficiaries for the housing, livelihood and vulnerability components and the
mobilization o f resources. The CSIA will help monitor the social dimensions of the program and flag
potential risks. Through direct interaction with beneficiary communities it will carry out an independent
evaluation o f the program implementation and distribution o f program benefits. The CSIA will monitor
the impact o f the programand help to initiate necessary mitigation measures.

17.      The selection, design, contracting, monitoring and evaluation o f subprojects will be consistent
with the guidelines, codes of practice and requirements stated in the ESSAF. The Governments o f
Pakistan and o f AJK will confirm that areas to be accessed during reconstruction and rehabilitation
activities have been de-mined.



                                                      66

F.      Responsibilitiesfor SafeguardScreening andMitigation

18.     Each Implementing Agency will be responsible for applying the safeguard screening and
mitigation requirements to its own subprojects. Within each Ministry, a Safeguards Focal Point (SFP)
will be identified with responsibility for overseeing the implementation o f the Framework. The federal
Ministryo fEnvironment/EnvironmentalProtectionAgency (EPA) andthe EPAso fNWFP andA X will
be responsible for environmental clearance for operations or sub-projects that require statutory
environmental clearance, as required by law. Although the GOP and AJK's clearance procedure i s
adequate and fairly reliable, IDA will still review a samples o f the EAs prepared under each sub-
component and provide necessary concurrence for the approval o f disbursements o f funds.

19.     ERRA will have staff with expertise in Social Development and Environment respectively to
oversee the implementation o f the ESSAF by sub-projects. ERRA will also be responsible for the overall
compliance with the ESSAF. The staff should be inplace within two months after Project effectiveness.
All Departments/Authorities implementing sub-projects will have focal persons for Social Development
and Environment in place within two months after project effectiveness. They will be responsible to
oversee the initiation and completion o f the Social Assessment study in the immediate future and the
continuous Social Impact Assessment at given points over the life o f the project. They will be directly
responsible for compliance with the ESSAF at sub-project levels.

G.      Capacity-Building andMonitoring of SafeguardFramework Implementation

20.     As part o f the capacity-building to be provided for implementation o f the proposed operations,
the Safeguards Focal Points and relevant staff o f the concerned Ministries will also receive training in
ESSAF's application. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) o f the federal government and the
EPAs of NWFP and AJK will be trained inevaluation o f environmental assessments prepared under this
operation.

21.     To assist in this capacity-building, and to provide subsequent guidance and review o f the
ESSAF's application, the Governments o f Pakistan, NWFP and AJK will contract specialist services for
environmental and social safeguards. Duringsupervision o f these operations, the World Bank will assess
the implementation o fthe ESSAF, and recommendadditional strengthening, ifrequired.

H.      Consultationand Disclosure

22.     This ESSAF has been shared with the related Government Ministries o f Pakistan and AJK,
concerned nongovernmental organizations and development partners o f reconstruction o f the earthquake
affected areas.   It was disclosed in Urdu and English by the Ministry o f Environment and the
Environmental Projection Agencies o f AJK and NWFP in Islamabad, Muzaffarabad and Peshawar. It
will also be made available at the World Bank's Infoshop. Relevant subproject specific safeguard
documents/mitigation plans prepared subsequently will also be disclosed.

23.     The proposed operations will support a number o f feasibility and detailed design studies for
future infrastructure investments for which World Bank safeguard policies relating to consultation and
disclosure will apply. Inparticular, for environmental Category A and B investments proposed for future
operations, the implementing agency will consult project-affected groups and local nongovernmental
organizations on the project's environmental and social aspects, and will take their views into account.
The implementing agency will initiate these consultations as early as possible, and for meaningful
consultations, will provide relevant material in a timely manner prior to consultation, in a form and
language(s) that are understandable and accessible to the groups being consulted.




                                                    67

24.     For Category A projects, the implementing agency will consult these groups at least twice: (a)
shortly after the environmental screening and prior to finalization o f the terms o f reference for the
Environmental Impact Assessment (EM); and (b) once a draft EM report i s prepared. For the initial
consultation, the implementing agency will provide a summary o f the proposed project's objectives,
description, and potential impacts. For both Category A and B projects, the implementing agency will
provide these groups with a summary o f the EM report's conclusions. In addition, the implementing
agency will make the draft reports publicly available to project-affected groups and local
nongovernmental organizations.




                                                 68

                                      APPENDIXXI: PROCUREMENT

A.       General

1.       This operation will supplement the activities under the emergency recovery program focusing on
the reconstruction of housing stock, provision o f cash grants for livelihood support, and import financing
of goods required for the reconstruction phase o f the program in NWFP and AJK, as well as any
contingencies that may arise inother sectors.

2.      Procurement for the proposed program would be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated M a y 2004; Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in
the Development Finance Agreement. The broad description o f various items under different expenditure
categories to be financed under the program i s provided below. For each contract to be financed under
the Credit/Grant, the Government and IDA will agree upon the procurement method, the consultant
selection method, and the need for prequalification. A detailed procurement plan for the first six months
of the program, excluding the livelihood support cash grants, will be agreed prior to implementation. The
procurement plan will be updated each subsequent six months. A guidance note on simplified and
applicable procedures for all procurement actions under the program will be prepared.

3.      The procurement o f goods, works and services other than consulting services, to be financed
under the project following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and Limited International Bidding
(LIB)procedures, will use Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments. Consultants will be selected based on
the BanWIDA Standard RFP and procurement methods described in the DFA. The Bank's Standard
BiddingDocuments will be used for procurement o f goods and works following National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures already agreed with IDA and, for the selection o f consultants for small
assignments, Request for Proposals (RFPs) documents based on IDA mandated samples. Additionally,
based on the specific need and subject to prior review, IDA may agree to the use o f other standard
documents prepared by the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) or the PakistanEngineering
Council (PEC), specifically for emergency operations following natural disasters.

Procurement of Works

4.      Small scale rehabilitationheconstructionwork may be packaged to the extent possible to procure
following national shopping procedures. Where possible and applicable, community based organizations
would be contracted to carry out rehabilitationheconstruction works. Direct contracts will be estimated
based on market rates. Reconstruction o f damaged houses and new housing construction will be carried
out by the beneficiaries following direct contracting or shoppingprocedures.

Procurement of Goods -Quick Disbursement Component

5.      A positive list o f items for import financing has been agreed with the Government (Attachment
I).Procurement wouldbelimitedto goods fromcountries that are eligible underthe Bank's Procurement
Guidelines (Guidelines. Procurement under IBRDLoan and IDA Credits of May 2004). Up to 20% of the
funds available under this credit will be qualify for retro-active financing of contracts for goods in the
positive list placed after 8 October, 2005, provided procurement procedures acceptable to the Association
have been followed.

  a)    Commonly traded commodities may be procured under the Project by both the public and private
        sectors through established international commodity markets as defined in Clause 2.68 of the
        Bank's Procurement Guidelines, or through simplified procurement procedures in accordance



                                                    69

                       with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines (Table PI). All contracts would be subject to a post
                       review by the Bank.

                       Goods other than commodities procured by the public sector under this Project would follow
                       simplified international competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
                       Guidelines (Clauses 2.66 and 2.67). However, to facilitate the speedy import o f items required
                       immediately for the recovery effort, public sector agencies would be able to use international
                       shopping procedures, in accordance with Clauses 3.5 o f the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, for
                       contracts o f value less than US$3 million up to a period o f one year from 8 October 2005, the
                       date of the earthquake. All contracts would be subject to a post review by the Bank.

                       Goods other than commodities with a contract value o f less than US$5,000,000 under this Project
                       may be procured by the private sector through established commercial practices acceptable to
                       the Bank.

                                                    Table P1: Summaryof ProcurementProcedures for Items onthe PositiveList

                            PROCUREMENTCATEGORY                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROCUREMENTMETHOD
     Public Sector Procurement
      Commodities                                                                                                                                                                           Through established international commodity markets, or
                                                                                                                                                                                             other channels o f competitive procurement as defined in
                                                                                                                                                                                             Clause 2.68 o f the Bank's Procurement Guidelines

      Goods                                                                                                                                                                                  Simplified international competitive biddingprocedures
                                                                                                                                                                                            under Clauses 2.66 and 2.67of the Bank's Procurement
                                                                                                                                                                                             Guidelines. Public sector agencies would be able to use
                                                                                                                                                                                             international shopping procedures, inaccordance with
                                                                                                                                                                                             Clauses 3.5 o f the Bank's Procurement Guidelines for
                                                                                                                                                                                             contracts o f value less than US$3,000,000 up to a period
                                                                                                                                                                                             o f one year from 8 October 2005, the date o f the
   ....................................................................................................................... ...,.,......,,,......,................................ ... ..............................
                                                                                                                                                                                             earthquake.             ............................................................................... ............................................................................................................................................
      Private Sector Procurement
      Commodities                                                                                                                                                                            Through establishedinternational commodity markets, or
                                                                                                                                                                                             other channels o f competitive procurement as defmed in
                                                                                                                                                                                             Clause 2.68 o f the Bank's Procurement Guidelines

      Goods for contracts valued at less than                                                                                                                                                Based on establishedcommercial practices acceptable to
      US$5,000,000                                                                                                                                                                           the Bank

Cash Grantsfor Livelihood Support and Housing Support Activities

6.                     Government will provide beneficiaries a cash grant on a monthly basis to affected families up
livelihood activities. The beneficiary will be fully responsible for all procurement action using the
proceeds from the grant.

7.                     Government will also provide beneficiaries a cash grant to commence owner-driven housing
repairh-econstruction activities. The beneficiary will be fully responsible for all procurement action using
the proceeds from the grant.

8.                     Contingencies. If gaps are identified, IDA funds would be used to support additional
                                                                                                      financing
sectors including social protection, health, education, agriculture, and roads, water supply and
infrastructure.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                70

Selection of Consultants

9.      Consultancies will include beneficiary assessments, review and revision o f building standards for
design of structures to withstand natural disasters, design and construction supervision contracts, studies
on natural resource systems in the affected areas, environmental safeguards, social safeguards, national
parks and wetlands, impact on the land and water resources, monitoring and evaluation, public awareness
programs and riskmitigation studies.

10.     Depending on the nature and the emergency timing for carrying out consultancy assignments,
Single Source Selection and Consultant's Qualification Selection (CQS) may be considered as preferred
methods.

11.      Shortlists o f consultants for assignments estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent per
contract may be composed entirely of national consultants inaccordance with the provisions o f Paragraph
2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

B.      Assessment ofthe Capacityto ImplementProcurementunder the Program

12.     An overall update o f the assessment o fprocurement capacity inthe NWFP and AJK basedon the
on-going procurement performance in the projects under implementation in the two provinces was
undertaken by Asif Ali, Procurement Specialist. A summary o f the assessment i s providedbelow.

Implementation Arrangements

13,     The GOP has established an Earthquake Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Authority ( E M ) at
the federal level with the responsibility for overall policy and planning, standard setting, regulation,
coordination as well as monitoring o f the reconstruction and rehabilitation program. At the province
level, steering committees will be established. The NWFP and AJK Earthquake Steering Committees,
chaired by the respective Chief Secretaries will oversee provincial planning and implementation o f sub-
components. These committees would be supported by professionally staffed Reconstruction Agencies
(RAs) which will have an autonomous status. The execution o f works and the procurement o f goods and
services for specific components would be done by these professional bodies in close coordination with
relevant line departments and local governments. At the district level, District Reconstruction Units
(DRUs) would be established to support preparation o f plans and implementation o f small contracts in
coordination with districts governments/ district level line agencies and Partners Organizations (POs).

Exposure to I D A Procurement Procedures

14.     ERRA is a newly formed organization and consequently does not have any previous experience
of IDA funded programs. In the NWFP, various departments have adequate experience with IDA
projects. These are NWFP CIP I(Cr.2829-PAK) and I1(Cr.3906-PAK) and NWFP OFWM (Cr.3516-
PAK).    In AJK the LGRDD has worked on the AJK RWSSP (0.2228 -PAK) and is currently
implementing AJK CISP (Cr.3689-PAK). Other than goods to be procured under import financing, there
will not be any highvalue procurement actions under the proposedprogram. IDAhas already conducteda
training program for district level rural development staff. ERR4 shall recruit or reallocate staff within
the system to strengthen the procurement capacity o f the project management units (PMUs). Inaddition,
NWFP and AJK governments will support district/TMA units as needed in implementation of the agreed
procurement plan.




                                                     71

Actionsfor Improving theAgencies' Procurement Capacities

15.     IDA would conduct at least two training programs at the ERRA and NWFP and AJK
governments' level to create an awareness o f the IDA procurement guidelines and to enhance the
procurement capability o f the implementing agencies andthe decision-making authorities.

C.      ,ProcurementPlansand SelectionMethods

16.     The relevant implementing agencies will develop procurement plans-that          include the agreed
procurementmethods-which        will provide the basis for all procurement activitiesunder the program.

Methods of Procurementfor Works and Goods

17.     The proposed methods for procurement o f goods and works will follow one o f following
procedure:


    0   International Competitive Bidding [ICB]
    0   National Competitive Bidding[NCB]
    0   Shopping
    0   Direct Contracting
    0   Force Account
    0   Community participation inprocurement

18.     The Government and IDA shall agree to comply with the improved procedures for procurement
following N C B as indicatedthe attachment to this Appendix.

Methodsfor Selection of Consultants

19.     The selection o f consultants will be made on the basis o f the following methods depending on
appropriateness ineach case.

    0   Quality and Cost Based Selection [QCBS]
    0   Quality Based Selection [QBS]
    0   Selection under a FixedBudget [FBS]
    0   Least Cost Selection [LCS]
    0   Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications [CQS]
    0   Single Source Selection [SSS]
    0   Selection o f Individual Consultants as per SectionV o fthe Guidelines

20.     Considering the emergency situation, most o f the assignments are expected to be procured
following Single Source Selection (SSS) and Consultant's Qualification Selection (CQS) Methods.

D.      ProcurementSupervisionandReporting

21.     In addition to prior-review of contracts by IDA, where required there will be up to of two
procurement review missions in each year that would include field visits, on-site inspections and post-
review o f procurement actions. Auditor General o f Pakistanwill be strengthened to conduct an extensive
ex-post procurement audit o f the contracts on a sample basis.

22.     Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
    0   Prompt reporting o f contracts award information by PMUs for the respective components.


                                                     72

       0    Comprehensive quarterly reports by PMUs indicating:
            (i)Revisedcostsestimatesforindividualcontractsandtotalcost;and
            (ii)Revised procurement actions including advertising, bidding and contract award and
            completion time for all contracts.

  E.        Thresholdsfor Procurement MethodsandPriorReview

  23.       Thresholds for the various procurements methods are given inthe following table.

                Table P2: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsfor items other than the PositiveList

              ~~
Sxpenditure Contract Value Threshold (US$) Procurement Method                           Prior Review Requirements
Zategory
 . Works      For each contractestimatedto cost NCB                                     All
              above 300,000
              For each contract estimatedto cost NCB                                    FirstNCB contractfor eachimplementing
              between50,000 and300,000.                                                 agency, irrespectiveof value.
              Below 50,000                         Shopping                            None.Postreview only
              25,000 andbelow                      ForceAccount or Direct Contracting All Direct Contracts
                                                   includingcommunitycontractingfor
                                                   the initialperiodoftwelve months
                                                    after 8 October, 2005, with prior
                                                    ameement with IDA
l. Goods      For each contract estimatedto cost:
               300,000 and above                    ICB                                 All
              Below 300,000                         NCB                                 First NCB contractfor eachimplementing
                                                                                        agency, irrespectiveof value.

              Below 50,000                          Shopping                            None.Post review only
              Proprietaryitems, software, small     Direct Contractingduringthe initial All
              value drugs, spare parts for existing periodoftwelve months after 8
               equipment, etc.                     October 2005, with prioragreement
                                                   with IDA
3. Grants for All                                  Directby the beneficiary
Livelihood
;upport
              ~
L             For each contract estimatedto cost:
Zonsultant     200,000 and above                   QCBS [inspecificcases, methodof      All
Services                                           procurement canbe other than
                                                   QCBS, which will be identified inthe
                                                    procurementplan]
              Below 200,000                         4ny methodas per the CrediUGrant First consultancycontract for each
                                                   4greement                            implementingagency, irrespectiveo f value

                                                   Single Source Selection              All
              Individual consultants>50,000         SectionV ofthe Consultants          All
                                                   hidelines
              Individual consultants<50,000        SectionV of the Consultants          First consultancycontract for each
                                                   3uidelines                           implementingagencyirrespectiveofvalue

  Prior review requirements will be identified inthe procurementplans, which will be regularly updated for
  review and agreement with IDA.



                                                                 73

F.     OVERALL PROCUREMENT RISKASSESSMENT

24.    The overall risk for procurement i s Hlg;h.

Agreed Proceduresfor National CompetitiveBidding
       Invitation to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper with a wide circulation, at
       least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission o f bids;
       Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or inperson, to all who are willing to pay the
       required fee;
       Foreign bidders shall not be precluded fi-om biddingand no preference o f any kind shall be given
       to national bidders inthe biddingprocess;
       Biddingshall not berestricted to pre-registered firms;
       Qualification criteria shall be stated inthe biddingdocuments;
       Bids shall be opened inpublic, immediately after the deadline for submission o fbids;
       Bids shallnot be rejected merely on the basis o f a comparisonwithan officialestimate without
       the prior concurrence o fthe Association;
       Before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Association's prior concurrence shall be
       obtained;
       Bids shallbe solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis ofunitprices andnot on the
       basis o f a composite schedule o frates;
       Contracts shall not be awarded on the basis o f nationally negotiatedrates;

       Contracts shallbe awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and

       Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders.




                                                     74

                   APPENDIXXI: FINANCIALMANAGEMENT                  AND DISBURSEMENT

A.       Country andProvincialIssues

1.       A CFAA was carried out for Palustan and a final report was presented to the Government in
December 2003. The report highlighted certain strengths and weakness in the financial management
systems and included a time-bound action plan, as part o f the reform program, for implementation by the
Government. The Government has achieved reasonable progress in the implementation o f the reform
measures in a number o f respects although progress i s uneven in some o f the key areas like internal
auditing.

2.       The Earthquake Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC) will be implemented, principally, in the two
affected provinces/territories o f Pakistan (NWFP and AK). While a Provincial Public Financial
Accountability Assessment, finalized for the NWFP in January 2004 also highlighted some specific
deficiencies, progress in the implementation o f the provincial financial management reform program
indicates that NWFP i s a most reforming province. The Province has adopted the New Accounting
Model using the new Chart o f Accounts which i s IMF GFS compliant, and i s only one o f two provinces
that have achieved a state o f readiness to roll-out the use o f a uniform chart o f accounts for all its 24
district governments. The province has also achieved the highest reconciliation levels for fiscal and
financial data amongst the four provinces o fthe federation.

3.       The financial management arrangements at AJK are, on the other hand, conducted on the same
underlying principles as applicable at the Federal level. The accounting, internal control, reporting, and
auditing systems are all based on the federal model while recognizing that AJK i s not a traditional
province inthe federation. The CFAA (2003) conclusions, equally applicable to AJK, indicate that there
are significant challenges remainingwithin the country's financial management reform agenda to improve
the effectiveness and productivity o f public spending not only through a better allocation o f resources and
a more careful choice o f policies and priorities but also through better implementation, more efficient
delivery o f services, and improved controls over financial flows. Since then, AJK achieved the highest
accounts reconciliation rate when compared to the four provinces o f Pakistan and the Federal
Government. Reconciliation levels for receipts, expenditures, intergovernmental accounts, and suspense
accounts have been held at 100% respectively over the past 3 years. This has resulted to a greater
reliability and accuracy o f the financial and fiscal data supplied from the A K despite the multiplicity o f
financial transactions carried out through manual accountingprocesses.

B.       ImplementationArrangements

4.       A form o f Statutory Authority, establishedbyNotification, called Earthquake Reconstructionand
Rehabilitation Authority (ERRA) was founded to manage the overall implementation and monitoring
arrangements for the recovery exercise. This institution will be the umbrella agency that will define the
operational policies and guidelines and direct the uniform implementation o f the country's disaster
management program as well as manage the grievance process. It will also be responsible for the overall
management of the funds provided by multilateral and bilateral donors, private targeted donations, and
budgetary contributions o f the Government towards the reconstruction and rehabilitation program. IDA
funds to be provided under the auspices o f the Earthquake Emergency Recovery Credit will equally be
routed and managed through the Authority under financial management arrangements harmonized with
the rest o f the donors.

5.       ERRA shall not manage the President's ReliefFund(PRF). This fund, which received donations
fi-om private individuals and corporate institutions, is currently disbursing the funds for relief related
operations under the authority o f the Prime Minister's Secretariat. While the PRF will not constitute part



                                                      75

of the sources o f funds for the ERRA Fund Account, separate financial statements o f that Fund will be
prepared and audited and certifiedby the Auditor General o fPakistan.

6.       An Operations Manual o f the Recovery Program i s currently being prepared by the Government
under the auspices o f ERRA. This Manual will provide the policies and guidelines that shall constitute
the strategic and operational management o f the program as well as enshrine the transparency and
accountability o f the resources provided for the reconstruction and rehabilitation exercise. Financial
management and auditing procedures, including funds flow control arrangements and procedures,
designed by the Auditor General o f PahstadController General o f AccountshIinistry o f Finance, shall
formpart o f this Manual.

7.       The ERRA funds shall be credited into the `Public Account' - `ERRA Fund'. Specific `special
purpose' budgeting and accounting codes shall be introducedby ERRA to capture and track receipts into
the account and payments from the account in order to produce reports consistent with the outline and
contents o f the financial statements.

8.       Implementation o f the recovery program will be undertaken through NWFP/AJK Provincial
Reconstruction Agencies and District Reconstruction Units, NHA, WAPDA, FWO, PWD, PPAF, NGOs
or such other mechanisms that ERRA will authorize. The ERRA will finance the remunerationdfees o f
qualified technical and financial management personnel in each o f the provincial Reconstruction
Agencies and district reconstruction units, and support the evaluation and monitoring processes during
implementation.

9.       The government budgeting and accounting system will be used up to the extent possible, at all
levels. For the purposes, however, o f expediting and fast tracking the implementation process, and
harmonizing the reporting and assurance process through a central coordination entity, ERRA will
prescribe the reporting requirements o f each o f the two Reconstruction Agencies, based on the specific
formats for its own Entity reporting. The Reconstruction Agencies will also, in turn, prescribe the
reporting requirements o f the district reconstruction units. ERRA i s however empowered to vary the
channels o f control o f implementation activities where capacity constraints exist. Financial management
of the program's activities to be implementedby NHA, WAPDA, PPAF, FWO, NGOs will be carried out
under the auspices o f each o f these entities since they already all have acceptable financial management
arrangements. However, monitoring o f implementation progress inthese entities shall constitute ERRA's
role.

C.       StrengthsandWeaknesses

10.      The commitment o f the Government o f Pakistan to ensuring the adherence to transparent and
accountable processes for the reconstruction and rehabilitation program i s a strength that the project can
develop on to provide the requisite fiduciary assurances.         The Office o f the Auditor General, in
collaboration with the CGA and MoF, has spearheaded the preparation o f the funds flow, accounting,
internal control, financial reporting, and external auditing mechanisms for the Program. Since the AGP i s
currently implementing the PIFRA project, the office i s well poised to supporting the effective and
efficient delivery o f the financial management and overall fiduciary requirements for this type o f
project/program. Financial reporting using the existing S A P R 3 application software that i s becoming
widely used in the Pahstan public sector has the requisite functionalities to execute the accounting and
reporting needs o f the project and the overall program. Where found expedient, an off-the-shelf FM
software or specially programmed application could be acquired, without delay, to support ERRA's
financial accounting and reportingrequirements.

11.      A key weakness which is in itself a risk is the time required to institutionalize the FM
arrangement in ERRA as well as in the ReconstructionAgencies and District ReconstructionUnits to be


                                                      76

established for this recovery program. A mitigating factor however i s the committed responsiveness and
commitment o f ERRA to complete the recruitment, appointment, and induction of all the required
personnel within one month o f Credit effectiveness.

D.       RiskAnalysis

12.      The Financial Management risks o f the project, arising from the identified weaknesses, together
with their mitigating measures are highlightedinthe following table:

    Risk                                         Rating   RiskMitigatingMeasures
    Inability to comprehend the complexity inthe H        The    FM capacity      o f the  Reconstruction
    funds flow arrangement due to the multi-              Agencies will be strengthened with qualified
    sector,    multi-govenunent     nature    o f         incremental FM staff out o f projecVprogram
    implementing the program.                             funds.
                                                          Adequate FM procedural guidelines will be
                                                          included as part o f the overall Operations
                                                          Manual.

    Dearth o f a Financial Management Team at    H        Head o f Finance (ERRA) shall be in place
    ERRA to spearhead the FM arrangements in              before negotiations.
    good time.                                            A support team o f professionally qualified and
                                                           experienced FM staff will be inplace withm one
                                                          month after Credit effectiveness.

    Weak auditing capacity and potential o f              Auditor General will conduct audit o f all ERRA
    funds notbeing used for intendedpurposes.              funds on a regular basis through its presence in
                                                           Islamabad, AJK and NWFP. Inaddition, ERRA
                                                          will have an internal audit unit, which will
                                                           conduct ongoing post audits. These staff may be
                                                          recruited as incremental staff o f the AGP and
                                                          paid out o f the project funds to also address
                                                           internal control weaknesses.

   Administration and delivery of Livelihood               The Auditor General o f Pakistan or a f i i o f
    Cash Grants may be mismanaged                          Chartered    Accountants    with   international
                                                           accreditation and representation will conduct a
                                                           special purpose assurance audit o f cash grants
                                                           over the 6 month grant payment period.

    Overall riskrating


13,     With the overall financial management risk o f the project rated `High', the projecUprogramwill
needintensive supervision from an FMperspective.

E.       StaffingArrangements

14.     ERRA will be staffed by adequately qualified financial management team (comprising at least 4
market-based professional accountants). Internal auditors to be assigned on deputationby the CGA or as
project-paid incremental staff shall also be positioned in ERRA and the Reconstruction Agencies and
District reconstruction Units. These staff will be required to be on board within 60 days o f Credit
effectiveness. In the interim, financial management staff deputed to the Authority by the CGA shall carry
out the accounting and financial reporting o f the Program funds.




                                                     77

15.     At the NWFP and AJK Reconstruction Agencies which are to be established for the delivery of
the recovery program, they shall each establish a financial management wing, staffed by at least 4
professional accountants from the market.           For each o f the 8-9 District Reconstruction Units, one
professionally qualified accountant and one other part-qualified accountant from the market shall be
recruited to support the accounting and financial reporting o f the district implementation activities to be
handled at that level. Inrespect o f other implementing self-accounting entities like NHA, WAPDA, etc.
these already have adequate financial management arrangements to enable compliance reporting to
ERRA.

F.      Accounting PoliciesandProcedures

16. ERRA shall comply with the IPSAS Cash Basis o f Financial reporting for its year-end financial
statements o f the Entity, and shall also provide by way of notes to the accounts material financial
commitments at each year end. The notes should equally include a summary o f expenditures pertaining
to each o f the 8-9 affected districts on a segmental basis and according to the core components o f the
Recovery Program. Other specific operative procedures relevant for the project will be defined in the
financial management procedures prepared by the AGP/CGA/MoF. These procedures shall form part o f
the Operations Manual o f ERRA.

G.      InformationSystem

17.     ERRA shall implement a Computerized Financial Management System, using the existing
SAP/R3 (appropriately configured with the support o f PIFRAZ5),an off-the-shelf package, the DERA
FMIS application reconfigured to meet the ERRA specific accounting and reporting requirements, or a
specifically programmed FMIS application. This system shall serve as a consolidation bench for the
integrated M I S o f the entire program and shall be availed the capability to produce FMRs and financial
statements o f the program. Installation o f this system will be carried out at ERRA and each o f the two
Reconstruction Agencies within one month o f Credit effectiveness. Meanwhile, ERRA shall operate a
manual FMIS system.

H.      Flow of Funds and Disbursements(IDA Funds)

18.     There shall be established one dedicated Special Account for receipt and disbursement o f ERC
funds and this account shall constitute a sub-set o f the ERRA FundAccount held with the SBP. Other
donor contributed funds shall also form part o f the ERRA Fund Account but as sub-receipt accounts
thereof, Equally, all ERRA targeted donations shall be channeled through a sub-account o f the ERRA
FundAccount heldwith the SBP. Releases from the FederalGovernmentbudget shall be transferred from
the Federal Consolidated Fund to the ERRA Fund Account also as a sub-account thereof. All funds
received shall constitute part o f the `Public Account', shall be non-lapsing, but held intrust to be utilized
solely for intended purposes as per the financing plan, and in accordance with Government o f Pakistan's
transparent and accountable financial rules for emergency situations.

19.     The accounting mechanism for the purpose o f receiving and reporting the Credit will be done as
per the requirements o f Government o f Pakistan's M o F Circular o f November 25, 2002 as revised on
April 15, 2005, relating to the maintenance and operation o f `revolving fund' accounts of
IDA/IBRD/ADB credits and loans.             For this particular emergency reconstruction and rehabilitation
program, all funds for the program must first be channeled through the Federal Consolidated Fundheld
with the SBP and eventually transferred in total, according to sources, to the designated Public Account
(ERRA FundAccount) through a budgetprocess.

*'PIFRAi s Projectfor Improvement of FinancialReportingandAuditing




                                                        78

20.      For this particular program, the SBP shall credit the ERC funds first into the `Consolidated Fund
Account No. 1- Non-Food' o f the Federal Government, and correspondingly transfer the funds into an
IDA sub-account of the ERRA FundAccount held in the `Public Account'. The AGPR and ERRA as
well as the M o F and EAD shall be advised accordingly.

21,      Withdrawals from the IDA credit would be `Report-Based' (Financial Monitoring Reports) rather
than transaction-based (Statement o f Expenditures). `Report-Based' will allow for adequate funds to be
made at the disposal o f ERRA, based on its own plannedrequirements for up to two quarters inadvance.
The FMRs shall be provided, covering the whole program operations as well as the specific IDA
operations. The format o freporting shall be uniform for all donors.

22.      Withdrawals from the IDA Special Account shall be specifically for IDA financed eligible
expenditures o f the program and shall be reported accordingly as such. Since Fund Accounting i s not
anticipated, the Bank will accommodate FMR withdrawal applications from the Credit as long as the
overall expenditure eligible under its `financed components and categories' i s more than or equal to the
amount that ERRA seeks to withdraw from the Credit. For example, if under housing grants, a sum o f
$50 million has been disbursed under the Program while the Special Account Advance was only $20
million, the Bank will, prima facie, be satisfied that the Special Account Advance has been appropriately
expended and that ERRA could seek for replenishment o f the account. If, on the other hand, the amount
disbursed under the program at a particular reporting period is, say, $15 million when the IDA Special
Account Advance was $20 million, IDA will replenish the Special Account only to the extent o f the
following six months' budgeted expenditures less the balance o f $5 million ($20m less $15m) unutilized
by the Program at the time o f the replenishment request. This is consistent with the `entity approach' for
this Program

23.      ERRA shall release funds from the ERRA FundAccount held with the SBP, on `front-loaded'
basis, to each o f the two Reconstruction Agencies (NWFP and AJK) or participatingpublidprivate sector
agency based on the budgeted expenditures for approved programs and schemes to be implemented by
them against their annual work programs. The releases will be the equivalent o f the funds required for the
next six-months based on the costing o f the respective Agencies' annual work programs. The releases
would be transferred to a separate Bank Account of the Agencies and shall constitute a sub-set o f the
Public Account o f NWFP and AJK respectively for the Recovery Program. Other implementing entities
like NHA, PPAF, FWO, PWD, WAPDA, ADAs, and NGOs would open separate bank accounts to
receive and disburse the funds received through ERRA releases in order to finance approved schemes.
Equally, the releases would be the monetary equivalent o f six months' budgeted expenditures against
their approved annual work programs.

24.      Funds shall be released to and disbursed through the 8-9 District Reconstruction Units by the
respective Reconstruction Agencies on a form o f Imprests. The District Coordination Officers (inrespect
of Reconstruction Units in NWFP) and the Deputy Commissioner (in respect o f AJK Reconstruction
Units) shall serve as the Principal Accounting Officers under the guidance and direction o f the District
Nazims and the District Advisory Committees. Inaddition, transfers to designated Bank Accounts shall
be made by ERRA to other national implementing/participating entities like NHA, PPAF, FWO,
WAF'DA, ADAs, and NGOs. All programs and schemes must first have been pre-approved by the
relevant Provincial Steering Committees, headed by the Chief SecretariedAdditional Chief Secretaries,
and all releases o f funds must be intimated to all the approving authorities at the federal, provincial and
district government levels.

25.      For each funds release, ERRA shall ensure that the "Special Purpose" government budgeting and
accounting codes are used and that the releases relate to financing of specific activities and schemes that
hadbeen processed and approved under appropriate delegation o fpowers. Reporting back to ERRA shall



                                                     79

follow the same coding structure. The delegation of financial powers, as appropriate, shall be defined in
the Operations Manual.

26.      For the purpose of meeting the operational expenses of ERRA at the Central level, ERRA shall
establish and operate a Bank Account with the National Bank of Pakistan in Islamabad. Funds to be
released from the ERRAFundAccount heldwith the SBP shall bethe equivalent o f six months' budgeted
expenditures of ERRA.

27.      ERRA shall be responsible for consolidating the funds inflow (by fund source) and outflow (by
district/program/activity/scheme) related to the entire program, and shall also ensure that the funds
utilized from the ERC are clearly delineated as part of and as a sub-set o f the overall sources and uses of
funds (even by way of a note in the ERRA entity financial statements). The FMRs submitted for
withdrawals from the Credit would constitute the basis for this delineation.

28.      Below is a schematic flowchart of the funds flow aspects of the program as a whole (IDA
resources included):
                      ` ' BilateralI
                         Multilateral
                           Funds
                      \       I        /       > ConsolidatedFund
                                                     [Ministryof Finance]
                                                                     -State
                                                       Bank of Pakistan
                           Budaet                              I           2




                 Reconstruction                     Reconstruction                 NHA, FWO, PPAF, PWD,
                      Agency1                           Agency1                    RSPs,WAPDA, NGOs]




                                                         [District Reconstruction
                       Units] lmprestAlCs                  Units] lmprestAlCs

*TheserepresentPublic Accountfunds releasedby ERRA and heldinCommercialBanks

I. Accounting,InternalControl,andFinancialReporting

29.      At the district reconstruction units in the NWFP, the office of the DCO, through the financial
management staff that ERRA shall recruit from the market and pay for from the ERRA funds (as well
through DAOs, where necessaiy), will be responsible for the accountingand reporting of the expenditures
of approved district programs and schemes to the NWFP Reconstruction Agency. As regards AJK, the
office of the DeputyCommissioner, through recruited financial management staff (as well through DAOs,
where necessary), shall provide the accounting and reporting services thereat. The two Reconstruction
Agencies would carry out the reconstruction activities which may not be delegated to district
reconstruction units. These Agencies shall include a financial management unit in their structure that
shall be responsible for the accounting, internal control, and financial reporting o f all funds released to
themby ERRA. The arrangement also includes the consolidation, bythe ReconstructionAgencies, o f the




                                                             80

District Reconstruction Units' financial reports (using a simplified imprest accounting and reporting
format) prepared anddelivered to them on monthly basis.

30.      As for other implementing/participatingentities which are autonomous, self-accounting, andhave
acceptable financial management and reporting arrangements, financial reporting from them will entail
the provision o f summary financial returns on expenditures as well as implementation progress made for
approved programs and schemes they are implementing. These will serve the purpose o f consolidating in
the overall financial statements o f the ERRA. ERRA shall provide a template to these institutions on the
format o f such reports.

31.      Internal control and internal auditing on regular basis will be instituted inE m , NWFP and AJK
Reconstruction Agencies, and at each o f the 8-9 District Reconstruction Units.Internal auditors shall be
delegated by the CGA's office through deputation, or recruited from the market at cost to the Program.
This will ensure that the financial returns to be submitted to ERRA head office for consolidation are
reliable, accurate and comprehensive, and that they provide the required pre-assurance that the
consolidated Entityfinancial statements o f ERRA are true and fair.

32.      Additional internal control procedures will be specified in the project financial management
procedures manual to bridge any gaps and to promote results-based accountability framework particularly
with regards to the special flexibility implementationnature o fthe multisector programto be funded by a
multiplicity o f donors, inassociation with the Government.

33.      On a quarterly basis, ERRA shall provide a consolidated financial and implementation progress
report to the Government o f Pakistan and the donor community in a form of `Sources o f Funds'
(according to contributor categories), and `Uses o f Funds' (according to districts, sectors, programs,
activities, and schemes), as well as physical progress monitoring reports.           The reports should, for
transparency purposes, be made publicly available and ina website that ERRA shall establish.

34.      ERRA shallbe responsible for providing the overall assurance to the Government o fPakistan, the
citizens, and the donor community that the program i s being implementedtransparently and that the funds
expended from the ERRA Fund Account have been used for intended purposes and with economy and
efficiency. In this case, the financial statements o f ERRA as an entity, which shall be subject to a
separate independent audit by the Auditor General o f Pakistan, shouldbe made available within 4 months
o f the end o f each fiscal year.

35.      Inthe event that funds are transferred to community basedorganizations to carry out community
work, ERRA and the Reconstruction Agencies and with validation by the AGP, will outline the reporting
formats and simple accounting procedures that should be followed in: (i)budget preparation; (ii)
recording sources and uses o f funds; (iii) inventory control; (iv) asset management; (v) internal controls;
and (vi) audits, etc.

36.      As an enhanced form of effective delivery assurance, the Performance Audit Wing o fthe Auditor
General's Office shall conduct performance auditing of the program within six months o f the end o f each
fiscal year in order to enhance the accountability process, and instill corrective measures related to
implementation performance in good time. This report, which shall be available by December 31, each
year, shall be shared with the donor community.

J.       ExternalAudit

37.      The Auditor General of Pakistan (AGP) shall conduct an annual audit o f the ERRA as an entity
and certify the consolidated financial statements for the entire program. This activity shall be additional
to the continuous post-audits that will be performed at the Reconstruction Agencies and District


                                                     81

Reconstruction Units by the assigned AGP staff. For the purpose o f conducting continuous post-audit o f
the program, the Auditor General's office shall be provided with additional resources to recruit qualified
and experienced personnel to handle the activities at Agencies and Units as well as at ERRA since the
existing capacity of the AGP i s already well stretched. As the AGP also carries out audits o f NHA,
WAPDA, FWO, PWD, and would conduct the same for Reconstruction Agencies, the requiredassurances
on the consolidated financial statements of ERRA will be adequate to meeting the reporting and assurance
requirements o f donors, the Government, and the citizens o f Pakistan. IDA will therefore accept ERRA's
entity audited financial statement and audit report, with adequate disclosure o f the financed activities o f
the Recovery Program. The audit reports on the entity financial statements o f ERRA shall be due within
four months o f the end o f each fiscal year and shall be publicly available.

38.      With a view to enhancing the transparency inthe provision andpayment o f livelihood cash grants
to affected communities over a period o f 6 months, a special purpose assurance audit shall be carried out
that compares the eligibility criteria with the applied criteria, the identification mechanisms used for entry
o f beneficiaries in the beneficiary database, the funds transfer through intermediary institutions, and the
disbursement mechanism and coverage, as well as the timeliness o fpayments to affected individuals. The
specific  terms o f reference for this special purpose audit will be agreed with ERRA upon project
effectiveness. The Auditor General o f Palustan shall perform the audit or hire a firm o f Chartered
Accountants with internationalrepresentation inPakistan to perform the audit. Inthe latter case, the audit
will be financed from the Program funds. The report o f the auditors shall be presented to the Auditor
General, ERRA, and the donor community.

K.       Audit Reports

39.      The following audit reports will be monitored:

         ImplementingAgency            Audit Opinion                          DueDate
         ERR4                          EntityFinancial Statements             October 31
         ERRA                          ERRAFundAccount                        October 31

40.      Inaddition to the above, special purpose auditreports ofthe independentprivate auditors shallbe
due in respect of livelihood cash grants within four weeks o f the end o f each calendar month over the 6
months' disbursement period.

L.       LegislativeOversight

41.      The audited entity financial statements (annual) together with the audit reports thereon shall be
available to the Public Accounts Committee for their scrutiny and action not later than 5 months after the
end o f each fiscal year (].e. November 30).

M.       DisbursementArrangements

42.      The project, which shall be implemented as a part o f the overall Program over three years at a
total cost o f $400 million, will follow report-based disbursement procedures. The specific components
and withdrawal categories, against which FMRs will be based, together with the allocation o fthe ERC
IDA Credit thereto, are as presentedinthe table below:




                                                       82

                  Components                                            Amount (US$ million)
                  HousingFinance Grants                                             210

                  LivelihoodSupportCashGrants                                        85
                  Import Finance                                                     85
                  CapacityBuilding                                                   20
                  Total                                                             400

                  DisbursementCategory                       Allocated            Bank Financingthereof


                  1. Goods (except under Part 3 of               20                         100
                  the Project), works, consultants'
                  services (including audit costs),
                  and OperatingCostsfor the
                 Project

                 2. Livelihood CashGrants                        85                         100

                  3. Housing Grants                              210                        100

                 4. GoodsunderPart3 ofthe
                    Project  - Import                            85                         100
                                     Finance

                  Total                                          400                        100

43.       A Special U S Dollar Account will be established at the SBP, as a sub-account o fthe ERFUFund
Account, and managed by ERRA. The Special Account shall be operated under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. IDA shall advance to the Special Account the equivalent o f six months' budgeted
expenditures against the identified expenditure categories o fthe project.

44.       IDA will disburse the Credit on the basis o f financial monitoring reports (FMRs~~),                       incorporating
financial & physical progress reports, in agreed formats, submitted by the ERRA on a quarterly basis.
ERRA, the two ReconstructionAgencies, and the other self-accounting and autonomous implementing
entities, shall retain the supporting documentation for their respective activities, including completion
reports and certificates, and these shall be available for audit and to the Bank during project supervision.
The implementing agencies will provide physical progress and other technical and financial reports to
ERRA and on the basis of which ERRA shall submit withdrawal applications directly to IDA for
replenishment o f the Special Account held under its authority. In respect o f expenditures at the district
reconstruction units that are made on account o f the imprest funds advanced by the Reconstruction
Agencies, the original documents, along with the imprest account returns, will be held at the
ReconstructionAgencies.

45.       The Project will benefit from the simplified expenditure eligibility mechanisms agreed under the
Country Financing Parameters for Pakistan whereby 100% financing o f expenditures against applicable
categories shall apply.

N.        Retroactive Financing

46.       The Credit shall finance eligible retroactive expenditures o f the project from date o f the
earthquake (Oct. 8) to date of Credit signingor up to four months as of October 8, which ever comes first.
The amount o fretroactive financing o f eligible expenditures shall be upto 20% o f Credit amount.



26FMRs for withdrawalof funds fromthe Credit shallconstitutethe following reports: CashRequirementsForecast,Actual and Forecastcash
Flow Statement, SpecialAccountActivity Statement, and PhysicalProgressand ProcurementMonitoring Statement.



                                                                   83

0.       ActionPlan

47.      The following actions shall needto be completed by the defined dates.

                                                   ResponsibleAuthority/CompletionDates
     ~RequiredAction
      1. Finalize and Approve Operations           ERRA-Within four months o f Credit
         Manual o f ERRA for the Overall           Effectiveness
         Recovery Program
   I  2. Finalize FinancialManagement/Audit
         Guidelines
      3. Select and Appoint qualified FMand
         audit staff at ERRA, Reconstruction       to be inplace by Negotiations; the remaining
         Agencies, and at District Reconstruction  staff complement within two months o f Credit
         Units                                     effectiveiess
      4. Agree TORfor independent audit o f        AGP/ERRA -Withintwo months o fCredit
         LivelihoodCash Grants and appoint         Effectiveness
         auditors
      5, Agree formats o f interim and annual      E W A G P -By Negotiations                      II
         Financial MonitoringReports

Subject to the completion o f the agree actions as identified above, the financial management
arrangements are acceptable.

P.       ApplicableFinancialManagementCovenants

48.        The following conditions shall be included inthe FinancingAgreement (FA):


      0  The Government o f Pakistan, through ERRA,will establish and maintain throughout the duration
         of the project, satisfactory and acceptable financial management arrangements managed by
         qualified professionals; and


      0  ERRA shall submit annual financial statements of the entity to IDA, audited by the Auditor
         General o f Pakistan, no later than four months o f the end o f the fiscal year to which those
         statements relate; and


      0  The Authority will prepare and submit FMRs to IDA no later than 30 days following the end o f a
         reporting calendar quarter.




                                                    84

                                             APPENDIXMII:STATEMENT OFLOANS CREDITS                        AND



                                                              Pakistan Status of Bank Group Operations
                                                                           -
                                                                                      5-Dec-05


IBRDnDA
    Total Disbursed (Active)                                       229.11
             o fwhich has been repaid                                 0.00
    Total Disbursed (Closed)                                    13,213.68
              o f which hasbeen repaid                           5,098.28
    Total Disbursed (Active   +Closed)                          13,442.78
             o f which has been repaid                           5,098.28
    Total Undisbursed (Active)                                     987.43
    Total Undisbursed (Closed)                                        0.00
    Total Undisbursed (Active   +Closed)                           987.43



                                                                                                                                                Difference Between
                    Active Projects                                  Last PSR                                                                  Expected and Actual
                                                                Supervision Rating                   Original Amount in US%M                     Disbursements ai
                                                        Development         Implementation    Fiscal
 Project ID Project Name                                 Objectives             Progress       Year  IBRD      IDA     GRANT   Cancel. Undisb.     Orig. FrmRev'd


   PO71454   An< CommunityInfrastructure&Senices              S                      S         2003              50.0                      43.5       106
   PO74797   BankingSector TechnicalAssistance                S                      S         2003              26.5                      14.5       8 6
   PO35823   GEF-ProtectedAreasManagementProject              U                    MS          2001                       10.1              8 1       2 0
   PO10556   HighwaysRehab                                    S                      S         2004    150.0    1500                      260.3       32 7
   PO74856   HIViAlDS PreventionProject                       S                      S         2003              37 1                      29 9       9 6       6.6
   PO82621   NWFPCommunityInfrastructure                      u                     U          2004              37.1                      34.2        1 2
   PO71092   NWFP On-FarmWater ManagementProject              S                      S         2001              31.4             3.4      23.6       114       4.5
   PO77288   NationalEducationAssessmentSystem                S                      S         2003               3.6                       3 3        1 4
   PO34301   PhaseOut of ODSR e                               S                      S         1997                       13 0              5.7        0 3      0.6
   PO76872   P I F MII                                        #                     #          2006              84.0                      80 9
   PO83370   Public SectorCapacity Building                   S                      S         2004              55.0                      40.7       4 7
   PO82977    SecondPovertyAileviationFundProject             S                      S         2004             338.0                     212.5        4 5
   PO56213    SindhOn-FmWater Management                     MS                     u          2004              61.1                      53.9       20 6
   PO56213    Trade& Transport                                S                      S         2001               3.0                       0.1        0 0
   PO88994    TaunsaBarrageEmergency                          S                      S         2005    123 0                               93.1        6 2
   PO77306    Tax AdminiswationRefom                          S                      S         2005     24.4     78.5                      96.8       18.4
Overall Result                                                                                         291.4    955.3     23.1    3.4   1,001.1     132.1       11.7

ai Intendeddisbursementsto date minusactualdisbursementsto date as projectedat appraisal.




                                                                                         85

                                         APPENDIXXIV: PAKISTANAT A GLANCE

POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                      South         Low-
                                                           Pakistan      Asia      income      Developmentdiamond*
2004
Population,mid-year(millions)                                  152.1    1,448        2,338
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                              600       590          510                  Life expectancy
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                90.7      860        1,184                         T
Average annual growth, 199804
Population(%)                                                    2.4       1.7         1.8
Labor force (%)                                                  3.0       2.1         2.1     GNI                                   Gross
                                                                                               per                                 primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199804)                                           capita                            enrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulation belownationalpoverty line)                33
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                          34        28          31
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                   64        63          58
Infantmortality (per 7.000live births)                           74        66          79
Child malnutrition (% ofchildren under5)                         35        48          44
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)               90        84          75                                                  I
Literacy (% ofpopulation age 75+)                                47        59          61
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-age population)             68        97          94                    Pakistan
  Male                                                           80       105          101             -Low-incomegrow
   Female                                                        57        92          88

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                    1984       1994     2003         2004
GDP (US$billions)                                   31.2       51.9      82.3         96.1
Gross capital formationlGDP                         18.3        19.5      16.9        17.3
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                    11.1        16.3      16.9        16.0                       Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                            6.7       16.8      17.5        10.4
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                           25.9       22.2      23.1         23.0
Currentaccount balancelGDP                          -2.2        -3.2       5.1         2.0
Interest paymentslGDP                                 1.8        1.9       1.o         0.8
Total debtlGDP                                      39.3       52.8      43.6         37.1
Total debt servicelexports                          19.5       35.0       16.7        15.4
Presentvalue of debtlGDP                                                 36.1
Presentvalue of debtlexports                                           164.4
                                                                                                              Indebtedness
                                      1984-94 1994-04          2003     2004      2004-08
(average annual growth)
GDP                                        5.5        3.4       5.0        6.4         6.7             ~ P a k i s t a n
GDP per capita                             2.9        0.9       2.5        3.9
Exportsof goods and services              10.8       4.7       28.4       -1.5         7.9


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                   1984        1994     2003         2004
(% of GDP)                                                                                    Growth of capital and GDP (X)

AgricuIture                                         27.9                                                                                   I
                                                               25.6      23.6         22.3     IoT
Industry                                            22.7       24.3      23.0         24.9      5
  Manufacturing                                     16.1       16.8       16.2        17.6      0
Services                                            49.4       50.2      53.4         52.7     -5
Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure               81.2       71.1      73.6         73.3    -10
General gov'tfinal consumption expenditure          12.1       12.1       8.9          8.4
Importsof goods and services                        22.6       19.0      16.3         14.9   1           ~    G   C    F q G D P           1
                                                1984-94 1994-04         2003         2004
(average annualgrowth)                                                                        Growth of exports and irnporrs(oh)
Agriculture                                          4.4        3.0       4.1          2.2
Industry                                             6.7        3.8       4.7         12.0
  Manufacturing                                      6.2        4.9       6.9         14.1
Services                                             5.4        4.1       5.2          6.0
Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                4.2        3.2       0.5          8.2
General gov't final consumption expenditure          5.1        2.2       7.2          2.1
Gross capitalformation                               4.6        0.8       6.3         -3.2             -Emports           -OllmDorts
Importsof goods and services                         3.2        0.1      11.2         -8.6

Note: 2004 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamondsshow four key indicators in the country (in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage. Ifdata are missing, the diamond will
  be incomplete.




                                                                     86

                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 34424
                                            TAJIKISTAN
      TURKMENISTAN                                            CHINA                                                                       PAKISTAN

                      FED. CAPITAL                         Approx. Line                             EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY
                         TERRITORY                         of Control
                        ISLAMABAD          N.W.F.P.
                                                        MuzaffarabadMuzaf arabad                                   RECOVERY CREDIT
                                   Peshawar                Jammu
                                                             and
           AFGHANISTAN                  ISLAMABAD          Kashmir
                                       Area of Map
                                                                                                                                          HEAVILY AFFECTED TOWNS

                                                     Lahore                                                                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                          PUNJAB                                                                                          PROVINCE CAPITALS
                           Quetta
                              PAKISTAN                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                          RIVERS
                 BALOCHISTAN

ISLAMIC                                                                                                                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
  REP.
  OF                                                                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
 IRAN                                                   INDIA
                              SINDH


                  Karachi
                                                                                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
        Arabian Sea                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.



       70E                                                                                                                                         75E                 0  25  50 Kilometers
                                                              TAJIKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                         0    25        50 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                          CHINA
                    PAKISTAN

                                                                                                                                          K    a   ra k o   r
                                              K u s h                                           Epicenter                                                    a m                           K2
                                                                                                7.6 Saturday, October 8 , 2005                                                       (Mt. Godwin-
                                                                                                                                                                                        Austen)
                                                                                                5.6 & 5.8 Wednesday,                                                                   (8,611 m)
                                 H i n d u                                                      October 19, 2005                                                          R a n g e
                                                Chitral
                                                Chitral                                                                                             Indus



   AFGHANISTAN                                                                                          80   km

                                                     N . W. F. P.                                          60 km

  35N                                                                                                     40  km                                              Approximate
                                                                                                                                                               Approximate
                                                                                   BatagramBatagram                                                           Line of Control
                                                                                                                                                              Line of Control
                                                           Saidu
                                                           Saidu                                          20 km

                                                                                        Bala Kot
                                                                                        Bala Kot                                                                                   Kargil
                                                                                                                                                                                   Kargil

                                                                                  MansehraMansehra             Muzaffarabad
                                                                                                               Muzaffarabad

                                                                                AbbottabadAbbottabad              BaghBagh                              SrinagarSrinagar


                                     PeshawarPeshawar                                               RawalakotRawalakot                                                  Jammu

                                                             ISLAMABAD                                                                                      and Kashmir
                                 Kahat
                                 Kahat
                                                                                            Rawalpindi
                                                                                            Rawalpindi
                                                       FED. CAPITAL
                                                           TERRITORY
                                                          ISLAMABAD
               Bannu
               Bannu

                                                                                P U N J A B
        70E                                                                                                                                               75E

                                                                                                                                                                                        DECEMBER 2005

