Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4134 - PAK 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Earthquake Emergency Recovery Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 22, 2005  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4134 - PAK 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated December 22, 2005, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
PAKISTAN (the 
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the “Association”).   
 
WHEREAS (A) an earthquake occurred on the Recipient’s territory on  
October 8, 2005, resulting in, among other things, devastating loss of life, livelihoods, 
social services and infrastructure (the “Earthquake”); 
 
WHEREAS (B)  the Recipient having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the Project), which 
forms part of its emergency recovery and reconstruction program, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS (C)  the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the 
foregoing, to provide financing to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement; 
 
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to two 
hundred and eighty one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 281,800,000) (the 
“Credit”) to assist in financing the Project. 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
Page  3
-
2-
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III  - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through ERRA and the Project 
Implementing Entities, in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and the terms set out in the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement shall terminate is twenty (20) 
years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. Th
e
Recipient’s Representative is the Advisor to the Prime Minister on Finance, 
Revenue, Economic Affairs and Statistics, or the Secretary, Additional Secretary, 
Joint Secretary, or Deputy Secretary Economic Affairs Division. 
 
Page  4
-
3-
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan 
 
Economic Affairs Division 
 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics 
 Islamabad, 
Pakistan 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Khalid Saeed 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Abid Hassan 
Acting Country Director 
Pakistan 
Page  5
-
4-
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in carrying out its 
emergency recovery and reconstruction program in the Affected Areas, following the 
massive destruction and devastation that occurred as a result of the Earthquake. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1
:
Housing
Carrying out a program of housing reconstruction in the Affected Areas, 
including provision of Housing Grants for the construction and rehabilitation of 
permanent hazard-resistant housing, provision of training to construction workers, 
designing and implementing an information dissemination system, establishment of a 
grievance redress mechanism at local, divisional and district levels to handle any 
grievances arising as a result of the program, provision of training in land management, 
monitoring of social and environmental aspects, and provision of technical assistance.  
 
Part 2:
Livelihood Support
Provision of livelihood support to individuals and families in the Affected Areas, 
through the provision of Cash Grants, in accordance with the Acceptable Assistance 
Criteria. 
 
Part 3
:
Critical Imports
Importation of critical goods required for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of 
the Affected Areas. 
 
Part 4
:
Implementation Capacity Building
Provision of training, technical assistance, goods, equipment and operating costs 
for the implementation, monitoring and supervision of the Project. 
 
Part 5
:
Other Emergency Recovery, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Activities
Carrying out of emergency recovery and reconstruction activities in Affected 
Areas in additional sectors including, social protection, health, education, agriculture, and 
infrastructure. 
Page  6
-
5-
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall, and shall cause ERRA to, carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Operations Manual and the Environmental and Social Screening and 
Assessments Framework.  
 
(b) 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
amend, vary, or waive any provision of the Operations Manual and the Environmental 
and Social Screening and Assessments Framework if, in the opinion of the Association, 
such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the 
Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
2. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall vest responsibility for the overall management and 
coordination of the Project in ERRA.  
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall maintain ERRA with functions, staffing, and 
resources satisfactory and acceptable to the Association, for the purposes of, among other 
things, overall policy guidance and planning, setting of standards, formulation of 
regulations, coordination and monitoring of the reconstruction and rehabilitation 
program, and implementation of selected activities as agreed with the Association. In 
carrying out its functions, ERRA shall work closely with the Project Implementing 
Entities, and shall be responsible for the overall coordination of all activities under the 
Project. 
 
3.  
The Project Implementing Entities shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
B. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
1. 
Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph A.1 above, the Recipient shall 
ensure that all civil works under the Project, shall be undertaken in accordance with 
design standards and technical specifications satisfactory to the Association and the 
relevant provisions of the Environmental and Social Screening and Assessments 
Framework, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such implementation. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall not, and shall cause ERRA not to, take any action which shall 
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the recommendations of the Environmental 
and Social Screening and Assessments Framework. 
Page  7
-
6-
 
3. 
The Recipient shall ensure that activities financed under the Project shall not 
involve any land acquisition or involuntary resettlement of the local population and/or 
businesses. In the event that any land is required for the Project or any resettlement is to 
be carried out, the Recipient shall, in consultation with the Association, ensure that such 
land shall be obtained and such resettlement carried out in accordance with plans agreed 
with the Association. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association. Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained by ERRA a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section the Recipient shall 
through ERRA prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than one (1) 
month after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall have the Financial Statements of ERRA audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than four (4) months after the end of such 
period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1. 
Goods and Works.
 All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with 
Page  8
-
7-
 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Con
sultants’ Services.
 All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
Definitions.
 The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. 
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Limited International Bidding 
(c)  Shopping 
(d) Direct Contracting 
(e) Force Account 
(f) Community Participation in Procurement 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
Page  9
-
8-
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  Quality Based Selection 
 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c) Least-Cost Selection 
 
(d) Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(e) Single-Source Selection 
 
(f) Selection of Individual Consultants’ 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A. General 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  10
-
9-
 
Category Amount 
of 
the Credit 
Allocated 
(expressed 
in SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1)  Goods, vehicles 
and equipment 
(except under Part 3 
of the Project), 
Works
,
Consultants’ 
Services (including 
audit costs), and 
Operating Costs* for 
the Project 
14,090,000 100% 
 
(2)  Cash Grants 
59,880,000 
100% 
(3) Housing Grants 
147,950,000 
100% 
(4) Goods under Part 
3
of the Project 
59,880,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
281,800,000  
*The term “incremental operating costs” means the salaries and allowances and 
other emoluments of the staff recruited by ERRA, the Reconstruction Agencies, the 
District Reconstruction Units, and other entities responsible for implementing the Project, 
operations, maintenance and/or rental costs of vehicles, operations and maintenance costs 
of equipment and office premises acquired by ERRA, the Reconstruction Agencies, the 
District Reconstruction Units and other entities responsible for implementing the Project, 
bank charges and the costs of advertising in the media for bids and other purposes related 
to the Earthquake emergency, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipients’ civil 
service. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
Page  11
-
10-
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after October 8, 2005, for Eligible Expenditures;  
(b) 
under Category 2 unless the Recipient has furnished to the Association 
evidence of Acceptable Assistance Criteria; or 
(c) 
under Category 3 unless the Recipient has adopted technical guidelines 
and a training program satisfactory to the Association, and has appointed 
a
program manager to handle the implementation of Part 1 of the Project 
(as described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement). 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1.  The Recipient shall no later than four (4) months after the Effectiveness Date 
adopt an Operations Manual satisfactory to the Association. 
 
2.  The Recipient shall no later than sixty (60) days after the Effectiveness Date 
appoint financial management, accounting and procurement staff in numbers and 
with qualifications acceptable to the Association. 
 
3.  The Recipient shall prepare in a manner satisfactory to the Association, a 
Procurement Plan comprising: (i) with respect to activities already identified to 
be financed under the Project, the procurement methods and thresholds for such 
activities, no later than sixty (60) days after the Effectiveness Date; and (ii) with 
respect to activities under Part 5 of the Project (as described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement), the procurement methods and thresholds for such activities, no later 
than sixty (60) days after the date on which such activities are approved to be 
financed by the Association. 
 
Page  12
-
11-
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 15 and September 15: 
 
commencing March 15, 2016 to and including 
September 15, 2025 
1.25% 
commencing March 15, 2026 to and including 
September 15, 2040 
2.50% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  13
-
12-
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Acceptable Assistance Criteria” means the criteria and guidelines, in form and 
substance satisfactory and acceptable to the Association, governing the provision 
of Cash Grants. 
 
2. 
“Affected Areas” means the districts of Muzaffarabad, Neelum, Poonch 
(Rawalakot), Bagh and Sadhnoti in AJK, and the districts of Shangla, Abbottabad, 
Mansehra, Battagram, Kohistan in NWFP, and any other districts that the 
Association and the Recipient jointly designate. 
 
3. 
 “AJK” means the territory of Azad Jammu and Kashmir or any successor 
thereto. 
 
4. 
“AJK Reconstruction Agency” means the Agency established by AJK to handle 
the day-to-day implementation of the Project within its territory, and referred to 
in Section 1 paragraph A.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
5. 
“AJK Steering Committee” means the committee established by AJK to provide 
policy and strategic guidance for Project implementation within AJK, and 
referred to in Section 1 paragraph A.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
6. 
 “Cash Grants” means cash payments for livelihood support to be provided by the 
Recipient to affected individuals and families from the Affected Areas under  
Part 2 of the Project (as described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement). 
 
7. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
9. 
“District Reconstruction Units” means the units established within each Affected 
Area, and referred to in Section 1 paragraph A.4 of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement.   
 
10. 
“Environmental and Social Screening and Assessments Framework” means the 
Recipient’s Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework 
dated November 2, 2005, satisfactory to the Association, including any 
amendments made to such documents from time to time with the Association’s 
approval, that contain measures to address any adverse environmental or social 
impact arising from carrying out the Project. 
Page  14
-
13-
 
11. 
“ERRA” means the Recipient’s Earthquake Reconstruction and Rehabilitation 
Authority, established pursuant to the Recipient’s Notification No. F1 (4) / 2005-
Adm., dated October 24, 2005, which is charged with the general oversight and 
overall supervision and coordination of the Recipients’ Earthquake emergency 
reconstruction and rehabilitation program. 
 
12. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
13. 
“Housing Grants” means grants from the Credit proceeds provided by the 
Recipient to affected persons for the construction and rehabilitation of houses 
under Part 1 of the Project (as described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement), in 
accordance with operating procedures satisfactory and acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
14. 
“NWFP” means the North West Frontier Province of the Recipient, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“NWFP Reconstruction Agency” means the Agency established by NWFP to 
handle the day-to-day implementation of the Project within its territory, and 
referred to in Section 1 paragraph A.3 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
16. 
“NWFP Steering Committee” means the committee established by NWFP to 
provide policy and strategic guidance for Project implementation within NWFP, 
and referred to in Section 1 paragraph A.2 of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
17. 
 “Operations Manual” means the Recipient’s manual satisfactory and acceptable 
to the Association, which includes policies and guidelines for the strategic and 
operational management of the Project and financial management and auditing 
arrangements, including any updates made from time to time with the 
Association’s approval. 
 
18. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project 
acceptable to the Association and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
20. 
“Project Implementing Entities” means AJK and NWFP, and “Project 
Implementing Entity” means each of AJK or NWFP. 
Page  15
-
14-
 
21. 
“Reconstruction Agencies” means collectively, the AJK Reconstruction Agency 
and the NWFP Reconstruction Agency. 
 
22. 
“Steering Committees” means collectively the AJK Earthquake Steering 
Committee and the NWFP Earthquake Steering Committee.
 
