                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR1662



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (IDA-41340 TF-56748 TF-56749)



                                       ON A

                                     CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 281.8 MILLION
                       (US$ 400 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                      ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                     FOR AN

              EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY CREDIT



                               December 31, 2011




Urban and Water Unit
Sustainable Development Department
South Asia Region
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective December 21, 2011)

                      Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (PKR)
                                1.00 = US$ 0.011
                              US$ 1.00 = PKR 89.00

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                       July 1 – June 30

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank                 NDMA       National Disaster Management
                                                          Authority
AJK     Azad Jammu & Kashmir                   NDRMF      National Disaster Risk Management
                                                          Framework
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy            NGO        Non-governmental Organization
CBDRM   Community based Disaster Risk          NWFP       North West Frontier Province
        Management
CNIC    Computerized National Identity         OCHA       United Nations Office of Coordination
        Cards                                             and Humanitarian Assistance
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy           O& M       Operations and Maintenance
CSIA    Continuous Social Impact               PARCO      Pak Arab Refinery Limited
        Assessment
DDMA    District Disaster Management           PDD        Planning and Development Division
        Authority
DNA     Damage and Needs Assessment            PDMA       Provincial Disaster Management
                                                          Authority
DRCs    Data Resource Centers                  PDO        Project Development Objective
DRM     Disaster Risk Management               PEOC       Provincial Emergency Operations
                                                          Center
DRU     District Reconstruction Unit           PERRA      Provincial Earthquake Reconstruction
                                                          & Rehabilitation Agency
EA      Environmental Assessment               PMU        Project Management Unit
EQ      Earthquake                             POL        Petroleum Oil & Lubricants
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment        POs        Partner Organizations
EMP     Environmental Management Plan          PPAF       Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
ERC     Emergency Recovery Credit              PPRA       Pakistan Procurement Regulatory
                                                          Authority
ERP     Earthquake Recovery Program            PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ERRA    Earthquake Reconstruction and          PSO        Pakistan State Oil
        Rehabilitation Authority
ESSAF   Environmental and Social Screening     RHRP       Rural Housing Reconstruction
        Assessment Framework                              Programme
FATA    Federally Administered Tribal          RME        Reporting Monitoring & Evaluation
        Areas                                             System
FM      Financial Management                   SA         Social Assessment
FMRs    Financial Monitoring Reports           SBP        State Bank of Pakistan
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                 SERRA      State Earthquake Reconstruction &
                                                          Rehabilitation Agency
GOP     Government of Pakistan                 HSWG       Housing Strategic Working Group

                                              ii
GRM     Grievance Redressal Mechanisms        IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                      and Development
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation             ICRR    Implementation Completion and
                                                      Results Report
MIS     Management Information Systems        IDA     International Development Association
NADRA   National Database and Registration    IDB     Islamic Development Bank
        Authority
NCRRS   Non-Compliance Referral and           ISR     Implementation Status Report
        Response System
JSDF    Japan Social Development Fund         UN      United Nations

KP      Khyber Pakhtunkhwa                    UNDP    United Nations Development
                                                      Programme
KPIs    Key Performance Indicators            VPU     Vice Presidency Unit
SFP     Safeguard Focal Point                 WB      World Bank
SIA     Social Impact Assessment
SMCs    School Management Committees




                            Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
                          Country Director: Rachid Benmessaoud
                           Sector Manager: Ming Zhang
                      Project Team Leader: Raja Rehan Arshad
                         ICR Team Leader: Abdu Muwonge




                                             iii
                                            PAKISTAN
                                Earthquake Emergency Recovery Credit


                                                      CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph
1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................... 6
3.    Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................... 13
4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 17
5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................... 17
6.    Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................ 19
7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........... 21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 26
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 29
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 31
Annex 8. Comments of co-financiers and other partners/stakeholders ............................ 38
Annex 9. List of supporting documents ............................................................................ 39




                                                              iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          PK: Pakistan
Country:                Pakistan                Project Name:
                                                                          Earthquake ERC
                                                                          IDA-41340,TF-
Project ID:             P099110                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          56748,TF-56749
ICR Date:               01/05/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          PAKISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 281.80M             Disbursed Amount:         XDR 480.70M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 480.70M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Earthquake Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Authority
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/07/2005     Effectiveness:             01/19/2006       01/19/2006
Appraisal:            11/21/2005     Restructuring(s):                           09/30/2010
Approval:             12/15/2005     Mid-term Review:           09/01/2007       12/18/2007
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2009       05/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     20                  20
General education sector                                               5                   5
Housing construction                                                  40                  40
Other social services                                                  5                   5
Sub-national government administration                                30                  30


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                           40                  40
Participation and civic engagement                                    20                  20
Rural services and infrastructure                                     20                  20
Social safety nets                                                    20                  20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Rachid Benmessaoud                   John W. Wall
Sector Manager:            Ming Zhang                           Sonia Hammam
                                                                Christoph Pusch & Raja Rehan
Project Team Leader:       Raja Rehan Arshad
                                                                Arshad
ICR Team Leader:           Abdu Muwonge
ICR Primary Author:        Abdu Muwonge




                                                vi
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project objectives are to support the efforts of the Government of Pakistan to:

  (i) Reduce the immediate suffering resulting from the effects of the earthquake and
restore livelihoods destroyed by the earthquake;
  (ii) Restore basic services to the affected population and rebuild public infrastructure;
and
  (iii) Start the recovery and reconstruction process.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The revised PDO was to:

  (i) reduce the immediate suffering resulting from the effects of the 2005 earthquake and
restore livelihoods destroyed by the 2005 earthquake;

  (ii) restore basic services to the affected population and rebuild public infrastructure
destroyed by the 2005 earthquake;

  (iii) start the recovery and reconstruction process from the 2005 earthquake; and

  (iv) enhance the resources available to adequately meet the early recovery needs of
people affected by the 2010 floods.

  (NOTE: the description below of KPI baseline and completion data relates to additional
financing)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                               Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval         Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values       Target Years
                Stocks of motor gasoline needed for recovery operations maintained at adequate
Indicator 1 :   levels (Pakistan State Oil targets 10 days worth of consumption) during the
                period of import financing. (UoM = days)
Value
quantitative or 8                         6                                 10
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/31/2010                  09/30/2010                        12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        100 percent achieved.
achievement)
                Stocks of Jet A-1 needed for recovery operations maintained at adequate levels
Indicator 2 : (Pakistan State Oil targets 10 days worth of consumption) during the period of
                import financing. (UoM = days)

                                              vii
Value
quantitative or 18                         15                               10
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/31/2010                   09/30/2010                       12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        100 percent achieved.
achievement)
                Stocks of High Speed Diesel needed for recovery operations maintained at
Indicator 3 : adequate levels (Pakistan State Oil targets 15 days worth of consumption) during
                the period of import financing. (UoM = days)
Value
quantitative or 23                         22                               15
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/31/2010                   09/30/2010                       12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        100 percent achieved.
achievement)
                Housing component KPI-1: amount of restoration/reconstruction grants
Indicator 4 :
                disbursed
                                           Quick
                                           disbursements
                                           were expected to
                                           respond to the
                                           emergency. By
Value                                                                       100% disbursement
                                           October 2006,
quantitative or 0                                                           of the housing
                                           disbursements of
Qualitative)                                                                grant.
                                           the housing grant
                                           (Rs. 30 billion)
                                           had reached 82
                                           percent of
                                           beneficiaries.
Date achieved 12/05/2005                   10/17/2006                       05/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Housing component KPI-2: Number of houses reconstructed/restored to
Indicator 5 :
                earthquake (EQ) resistance standards.
Value
                                                                            528,000
quantitative or 528,000 beneficiaries
                                                                            beneficiaries
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/30/2006                                                    05/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %        By October 2006, 435,000 beneficiaries had received the Housing Grants.
achievement)
                Housing component KPI-3: Number of craftsmen trained in key trades (masons
Indicator 6 :
                and carpenters).
                Zero. However, ERRA                                         By mid-term over
Value
                had partnered with 18                                       500,000
quantitative or
                civil society Partner                                       beneficiaries and
Qualitative)
                Organizations (including                                    community

                                             viii
               PPAF POs) to                                              members had
               establish a training                                      undergone training.
               network in 130 UCs by                                     More than 16,000
               October 2006.                                             artisans and 4000
                                                                         local government
                                                                         personnel and
                                                                         master trainers had
                                                                         benefited from
                                                                         training
Date achieved 12/05/2005                                                 03/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Housing component KPI-4: Percentage of complaints redressed
                                                                         Data Resource
                                                                         Centers (DRCs) in
                                                                         AJK and SERRA
                                                                         helpline received
                                                                         and resolved more
                                                                         than 350,000
Value                                                                    complaints related
quantitative or 0                                                        to housing cash
Qualitative)                                                             grants.
                                                                         Concurrently,
                                                                         DRCs in NWFP
                                                                         and PERRA
                                                                         entertained about
                                                                         200,000
                                                                         complaints.
Date achieved 12/05/2005                                                 05/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Livelihood support KPI-1: Number of communities /villages reached.
                                                                         All affected
Value
                Zero at the time of                                      communities had
quantitative or
                disaster                                                 benefited from the
Qualitative)
                                                                         project.
Date achieved 12/05/2005                                                 05/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Livelihood support KPI-2: Number of families benefited in each district;
                                                                         Over 280,000
Value           Initial target population of                             families benefited
quantitative or 250,000 eligible                                         from cash grants by
Qualitative)    households.                                              the end of the
                                                                         project
Date achieved 12/05/2005                                                 05/31/2011
Comments


                                             ix
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Livelihood support KPI-3: Amount of money collected by beneficiaries.
                                                                          Total disbursement
                                                                          of about US$81
Value
                100 percent disbursement                                  million were
quantitative or
                of the livelihood grant.                                  disbursed to over
Qualitative)
                                                                          280,000
                                                                          beneficiaries
Date achieved 12/05/2005                                                  05/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Livelihood support KPI-4: Number of communities /villages where payments
Indicator 11 :
                were delivered on time
                Over 250,000 families                                     More than 100
Value
                were deemed eligible to                                   percent of the
quantitative or
                benefit from the payments                                 baseline was
Qualitative)
                on time                                                   achieved
Date achieved 12/05/2005                                                  05/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Livelihood support KPI-4: Number of grievances/appeals received by district and
Indicator 12 :
                how many have been resolved.
Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %        Similar data as shown above on the Housing component KPI-4
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                          Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                Value (in US$ millions) of certified Bills of Lading for fuels (detailed on the
Indicator 1 :
                positive list of imports) needed for recovery operations. (UoM=US$ million)
Value
(quantitative   120                       90
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/31/2010                  12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



                                               x
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                              Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                        IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                          (USD millions)
 1     06/29/2006           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 326.11
 2     12/29/2006           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 326.11
 3     06/28/2007           Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory             357.68
 4     12/27/2007           Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory             387.34
 5     06/30/2008           Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory             393.01
 6     12/28/2008           Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory             393.01
 7     05/26/2009           Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory             395.83
 8     07/29/2009           Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory             398.00
 9     11/28/2009           Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory             399.98
 10    05/24/2010           Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory             401.86
 11    12/11/2010           Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory             403.80

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 09/30/2010       Y       S      HS         403.80

If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                   Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                           Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                      Satisfactory




                                             xi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          xii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1.     Context at Appraisal

On October 8, 2005, at 8:50 PST1, an earthquake of a magnitude 7.6 occurred in Pakistan,
Afghanistan and India. In the immediate aftermath of this catastrophe, the World Bank
responded by approving a US$400 million Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC) followed
by two emergency Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF) grants (TF:56748) and (TF:
56749) and provision of technical assistance to respond to the huge emerging needs of the
Government of Pakistan (GOP).

The earthquake epicenter was located 100 kilometers north—northeast of Islamabad,
along a fault associated with the Indian subcontinent moving northward at a rate of about
40 millimeters/year (mm/yr) and colliding with the Eurasian continent. Tremors were felt
across a wide region of South Asia, from central Afghanistan to western Bangladesh.
More than 1,000 aftershocks were recorded in the India-Pakistan Kashmir region, ranging
from magnitude 5.0 to 6.0. The earthquake was arguably the most debilitating natural
disaster in Pakistan‘s history at the time. Pakistan administered Kashmir, known as Azad
Jammu and Kashmir (AJK), and the eastern districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP),
known as North West Frontier Province (NWFP)2 at the time, suffered the full force of
the earthquake in terms of number of lives lost, injuries sustained, and destruction of
infrastructure and economic assets. In at least three districts in AJK and five in NWFP,
public and private housing, social service delivery, governance structures, commerce and
communications were either damaged or destroyed.

According to figures released by the GOP, as of November 3, 2005, approximately
73,000 people died and more than 70,000 sustained severe injuries or were rendered
disabled. It was estimated that over 2.8 million persons were left without shelter and 2.3
million persons without adequate food. About 203,600 and 197,000 units of housing were
destroyed and damaged respectively. In the affected districts in AJK, 84 percent of the
total housing stock was damaged or destroyed. In NWFP, 36 percent of total housing
stock in the affected districts was damaged or destroyed.3 The overall loss of public and
private assets (direct damage at book value) in the eight most affected districts was
estimated at Rs. 135.2 billion (US$2.3 billion), and the resulting loss in income (indirect
loss) was estimated at Rs. 34.2 billion (US$576 million). The level of direct damage was
higher in AJK than in NWFP with the former believed to have lost about Rs. 76.4 billion
(US$1.3 billion) and the latter‘s loss about Rs. 56.4 billion (US$ 989 million). Across
sectors, private housing suffered the most extensive damage (estimated at Rs. 61.2 billion



1
  Pakistan Standard Time.
2
  For consistency with the ERP context, NWFP is used throughout this ICRR text.
3
  Caution needs to be taken in interpreting these figures. Estimates remain conservative as the scale and
magnitude of the earthquake devastation could not be fully established due to inaccessibility of more
isolated communities located in the rugged mountainous terrain.


                                                      1
(US$1.03 billion)) followed by transport (US$ 340 million), education (US$ 335
million), agriculture and livestock (US$ 218 million).

While the impact of the earthquake on Pakistan‘s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was
expected to be relatively small, the impact on the fiscal deficit was severe. Over the fiscal
years (FY) 2006—2008 the fiscal deficit was projected to increase by as much as 0.6 to
one percent of GDP per year assuming, no other offsetting revenue increases and
expenditure reductions. On the other hand, the impact of the earthquake on GDP was
estimated at 0.4 percent of GDP.

A joint damage and needs assessment by the World Bank and the Asian Development
Bank (ADB) estimated the overall cost associated with the earthquake at US$5.2 billion.
This estimate included costs for reconstruction, relief, and livelihood support for victims.
Of this total, US$ 3.5 billion was estimated as cost of reconstruction of lost assets and
restoration of services. Approximately US$ 1.6 billion was estimated as cost for housing
reconstruction.4 On November 19, 2005, over eighty-five delegations, representing
multilateral, governmental and international non-governmental organizations, convened
at a one day conference in Islamabad to pledge financial and in-kind support to the
GOP‘s reconstruction and rehabilitation program. Total pledges amounting to US$5.9
billion were secured, ranging from US$300,000 to US$1 billion. Of the total amount
pledged, approximately US$2 billion was in the form of grant support while US$3.9
billion was in the form of concessional or soft loans.

Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The PDO was to support the efforts of the GOP to: (i) reduce the immediate suffering
resulting from the effects of the earthquake and restore livelihoods destroyed by the
earthquake; (ii) restore basic services to the affected population and rebuild public
infrastructure; and (iii) start the recovery and reconstruction process.

Table 1 below summarizes the key performance indicators with respect to the housing
and livelihoods components of the project. The livelihood indicators were distinguished
into process indicators and impact indicators. While the import financing component did
not list any indicators, a positive list of import items was used to monitor progress
towards the PDO.




4
 This figure excludes the labor hours of tens of thousands of Pakistanis and international
officials who worked during the after month of the earthquake.



                                              2
               Table 1: Summary of the key performance indicators
      Housing Component        Livelihood support
                                 Process Indicators        Impact Indicators
 Amount of restoration /reconstruction      Number of communities           Proportion of eligible households
  grants disbursed;                           /villages reached;               not receiving payments and
 Number of houses reconstructed             Number of families benefited     proportion of beneficiaries who
  /restored to Earthquake (EQ) resistance     in each district;                are not eligible;
  standards;                                 Amount of money collected       Proportion of affected families
 Number of craftsmen trained in key          by beneficiaries;                meeting their basic needs; and
  trades (masons and carpenters); and        Number of communities           Proportion of affected families
 Percentage of complaints redressed          /villages where payments         who need further support after 6
                                              were delivered on time; and      months.
                                             Number of
                                              grievances/appeals received
                                              by district and how many
                                              have been resolved.


Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

The project was restructured following the Bank‘s additional credit of US$300 million as
immediate response to the devastating floods that occurred throughout Pakistan in 2010.
Consequently, the PDO and key indicators were expanded to accommodate the
broadened scope of the project. The justification of additional financing and restructuring
was to ensure timely response by supporting flood recovery efforts with fast disbursing
import financing. Compared to the 2005 earthquake, the 2010 floods precipitated a sharp
increase in imports, such as food, medicines, tents, construction materials, machinery,
and fuel. Fuel was a key category of imports, including motor gasoline, jet fuel, and
diesel, which were essential for sustaining the recovery and reconstruction effort. The
operation proposed to disburse the full US$300 million in additional financing against
imports of POL items.

The revised PDO was to: (i) reduce the immediate suffering resulting from the effects of
the 2005 earthquake and restore livelihoods destroyed by the 2005 earthquake; (ii) restore
basic services to the affected population and rebuild public infrastructure destroyed by
the 2005 earthquake; (iii) start the recovery and reconstruction process from the 2005
earthquake; and (iv) enhance the resources available to adequately meet the early
recovery needs of people affected by the 2010 floods.

The additional performance indicators following the restructuring were:

   Stocks of motor gasoline needed for recovery operations maintained at adequate
    levels (Pakistan State Oil targets 10 days worth of consumption) during the period of
    import financing;
   Stocks of Jet A-1 needed for recovery operations maintained at adequate levels
    (Pakistan State Oil targets 10 days worth of consumption) during the period of import
    financing;
   Stocks of high speed diesel needed for recovery operations maintained at adequate
    levels (Pakistan State Oil targets 15 days worth of consumption) during the period of
    import financing; and


                                                       3
   Value (in millions of US$) of certified bills of lading for fuels (detailed on the
    positive list of imports in the original technical annex) needed for recovery operations
    (Revised).

The additional financing helped to ensure that adequate supplies of fuel were available to
sustain recovery and rehabilitation operations. The National Disaster Management
Authority (NDMA) estimated that substantial amounts of jet fuel were being used by
helicopters and fixed wing aircraft flying rescue and relief operations. In addition, heavy
machinery, trucks, buses and other mechanized vehicles also required huge quantities of
diesel and gasoline in their engagement in flood response. The fuel supply shortage was
exacerbated by the closure of Pak-Arab Refinery Limited‘s (PARCO) refinery, which
accounted for 20 percent of Pakistan‘s refinery capacity, producing 60,000 tons of motor
gasoline, 60 tons of jet fuel and 100,000 tons of diesel fuel per month. The closure was
due to flood related damages to roads and bridges leading to the refinery. It was expected
that repairs to this infrastructure would take at least 5—7 weeks, which was too long in a
response operation. The closure translated into a loss of fuel worth over US$150 million,
which was to be immediately imported in order to sustain adequate fuel supplies in the
country. It is important to note that the import financing was in the form of budget
support and thus, no actual data is available on the actual purchases of fuel made using
the project resources.

Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries were the population affected by the 2005 earthquake in AJK and
in NWFP, and the population affected by the 2010 floods across Pakistan. Other
beneficiaries were government staff, including those working with the project
implementing agency and associated departments. Relevant capacity support and
technical assistance to staff was provided in the areas of disaster and risk reduction,
project management, procurement and financial management. Indirectly, unskilled
workers benefited through access to on-the-job construction skills. Local builders
acquired skills on seismic building standards and techniques. Similarly, communities‘
strengthened their capacity and skills in the repair and up gradation of their buildings.

Original Components

The original project components were designed to respond to achieving the PDO stated
above. The components took into account the lessons learned in Pakistan and were
consistent with prior projects on disaster risk and reduction. The main components were
as follows:

Component 1: Housing Reconstruction (US$220 million). This component was to
finance: (a) housing assistance in the form of cash grants for replacement of destroyed
homes with new seismic resistant core units and the restoration and strengthening of
damaged homes to seismically acceptable standards, with eligibility determined by a
detailed damage and eligibility survey; and (b) technical assistance and capacity building
to support the Earthquake Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Authority (ERRA) and



                                             4
provincial and local governments in overall project management, reporting, monitoring
and evaluation, and compliance with the social and environmental framework,
development of a grievance redressal mechanism, among other activities.

Component 2: Livelihoods Support (US$85 million). This component was to address
the dual objectives of protecting the most vulnerable households in the short-term
through the provision of cash grants, and rejuvenating economic activity by reviving
small businesses and replacing assets lost in agriculture and livestock. Cash grants were
to be provided for monthly income support to affected households (for example,
households that were displaced due to housing damage or lost their main source of
livelihood – shop/business, livestock or agricultural land). Preference was to be given to
needy or vulnerable households, for example those with a high number of dependents to
support, such as the disabled, elderly, children, and injured.

Component 3: Import Financing (US$85 million). This component was to assist the
GOP in early reconstruction and rehabilitation efforts while maintaining macroeconomic
stability by financing critical imports related to reconstruction and rehabilitation of
earthquake affected areas. The component was based on a quick-disbursing mechanism to
help to finance POL imports. The imports would in turn support early reconstruction,
rehabilitation of assets, and restoration of economic activity, while mitigating pressure on
the balance of payments. Imports financed under this component were to include fuel and
petroleum products and other construction material, prefabricated and temporary
structures for providing medical services, and construction and earth-moving machinery
and spare parts.

Component 4: Capacity Building (US$10 million). This component was to support the
strengthening of the existing implementation capacity of all levels of government to
implement and to monitor the recovery program, as well as to meet the heightened
demand for project management and oversight. These measures were to include the
provision of human resources and consultancy inputs at the federal, provincial and
district levels, technical assistance for continuous social impact assessment and third
party evaluation, sector-specific training programs, the provision of information
technology connectivity and the establishment of management information systems
(MIS), as well as the purchase of basic office supplies, infrastructure, and urgently
needed vehicles. In addition, technical assistance was to be provided to develop a
strategic and effective hazard risk management system in Pakistan.

Revised Components

As shown above, following the devastating 2010 floods the Bank responded swiftly with
an additional credit of US$ 300 million. The ERC was restructured to accommodate the
GOP‘s emergency resource needs to address flood related recovery and reconstruction
costs. There was a greater demand for imports, and in particular, fuel used by helicopters,
jets, and other equipment during the emergency operation. Therefore, an additional
US$300 million were provided under component 3 on import financing, increasing the
overall cost from US$ 85 million to US$385 million (more than a 4 and ½ times fold



                                             5
increase of the original cost). There were no changes made to the original design and
implementation modalities of component 3, as defined and appraised during the
preparation of the ERC. The additional financing and restructuring was approved by the
Board of Directors on September 30, 2010.

Other significant changes

Since the nature and geographic scope of the flood event of 2010 was beyond the
mandate of ERRA, the Planning and Development Division (PDD) of the GOP became
the implementing agency for the import financing component. The PDD was the main
institution at the federal level responsible for flood response coordination, as well as
donor interface. Throughout the rest of the implementation period, there is no major
reason to suspect that this arrangement impeded the achievement of the intermediate
outcomes under component 3 as well as attainment of the PDO.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1.   Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The overall quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. This rating is based on the following
assessment:

Rationale for the Bank’s Intervention. The 2005 earthquake and the recent 2010
severe flooding are among the worst natural disasters in Pakistan‘s history. Tens of
thousands of lives were lost and there was severe public and private property damage and
destruction. The resource requirements to address the recovery and reconstruction needs
of Pakistan were enormously huge. The project and its additional financing were
consistent with the second and third pillar of the Bank Group‘s Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS) 2010-2013. The second pillar of the CPS seeks to improve human
development and social protection and the third pillar seeks to improve infrastructure to
support growth. In addition, the GOP and other domestic and international stakeholders
sought for timely assistance and collaboration from the Bank given its wide international
experience in disaster management and post disaster reconstruction operations. The
Bank‘s assistance was informed by a joint damage and needs assessment carried out
together with the ADB. The international community was also quick in responding and
various countries provided assistance both in cash and kind. The United Nations through
its various specialized agencies such as United Nations Office of Coordination and
Humanitarian Assistance (OCHA) assisted in the relief efforts.

Government commitment. The Government‘s commitment and priorities in dealing
with the disaster were furthered demonstrated by the creation of the Earthquake
Reconstruction & Rehabilitation Authority (ERRA) at the federal level and State
Earthquake Reconstruction & Rehabilitation Agency (SERRA) as well as Provincial
Earthquake Reconstruction & Rehabilitation Agency (PERRA) at the Provincial level.




                                              6
Clarity, focus and flexibility of project design. The project design allowed for greater
flexibility for the GOP to respond to emerging natural disaster needs. The PDO was
clearly defined and the associated components were aligned toward achievement of this
objective. For these reasons, the design was quickly adapted during the Bank‘s response
to the 2010 severe floods. In addition, the adoption of a mixed centralized and
decentralization approach allowed for alignment of the appropriate functions and
addressing implementation challenges at the right administrative level. Policy and
strategy formulation were centralized while implementation, monitoring and reporting
mechanisms were decentralized through field units. Moreover, implementation through
mainstreamed government line departments allowed for strengthening of existing
institutions to better respond to future disasters. Significant efforts were made to build
capacity in disaster risk and reduction across all implementing agencies.

Adequacy of safeguard policies. Safeguard policies as required under Bank policy were
adequately integrated in the project design. An Environmental and Social Screening and
Assessment Framework (ESSAF) was prepared to undertake environmental impact
assessments (EIAs) for all rehabilitation and reconstruction activities. The assessments
were aimed at ensuring that adverse environmental and social impacts were minimized
and that appropriate mitigation measures were inbuilt within the project.

In addition, a continuous social impact assessment (CSIA) was recommended and
adopted to facilitate the articulation of community perceptions, grievances and feedback
vis-a-vis identification of beneficiaries for the housing and livelihood components and
the mobilization of resources. The CSIA was to provide inputs in the project design with
regards to monitoring the social dimensions and potential risks of the program. Through
direct interaction with beneficiary communities it was proposed to carry out an
independent evaluation of program implementation and distribution of program benefits.

Lessons of earlier operations. The Bank has enormous experience in supporting
emergency operations in Pakistan and elsewhere. The Bank has supported earthquake
emergency rehabilitation operations such as in Gujarat and Maharashtra in India, Turkey
and Iran. Successful approaches applied in these and other operations were adopted in the
project design. These included flexible and demand driven design, continuous oversight
by local and state authorities, use of supervisory and implementation consultants to
augment capacity, enforcement of performance based criteria, effective procurement
planning and contract management arrangements. In addition to the conventional
contractor driven reconstruction, community-driven reconstruction model, particularly
the home-owner driven program, were also catered for in the project design. Other useful
approaches applied in this project design include training of local builders, formulation of
operational manuals clearly defining roles, responsibilities and procedures for
implementation by multiple actors, formulation of construction guidelines and
requirement of supervision mechanisms.

Adequacy of participatory processes. The IDA response to the disaster was based on a
joint damage and needs assessment which was carried out by the Bank in partnership
with ADB. The exercise was coordinated with the Government at the national, provincial,



                                             7
district and local levels. Several stakeholders were involved, including the UN agencies,
bilateral donors, and civil society. All strategies for the ensuing response and
recovery/reconstruction efforts supported under the operation were informed by this
assessment.

Project risks and mitigations. The key risks were the limited capacity and the highly
inaccessible environment/areas due to inclement weather. The limited capacity risks were
mitigated through capacity support to ERRA, PERRA/SERRA and District
Reconstruction Units (DRUs) in effectively managing disaster risk and reduction
strategies.

2.2.   Implementation

Bank supervision missions found the implementation progress as satisfactory, as recorded
in the Aide Memoirs between 2006 and 2008. By mid-term in 2008, the project had
disbursed 97 percent of the original credit amount. By the closure of the operation,
disbursements had reached 100 percent. Evidence from studies carried out by the Bank
and other assessments showed that the implementation arrangements for various
components of the project were satisfactory.

Housing: The housing component constituted 55 percent of the total ERP original credit.
At the closure of the project this component was rated highly satisfactory following
successful implementation and full disbursement. The component financed 15 percent of
the Government‘s US$1.5 billion Rural Housing Reconstruction Programme (RHRP),
which was a home-owner driven design initiative. Due to the programme‘s credibility,
the RHRP was able to mobilize full donor financing.

A total of US$210 million was earmarked (out of the total housing component cost) as
cash disbursement amongst beneficiaries for reconstruction of destroyed homes with new
seismic resistant core units and restoration and strengthening of damaged homes to
seismically accepted standards. A culture of seismic-resistant construction became
institutionalized in the project beneficiary areas. The aggregate seismic compliance rates
at the plinth level and lintel level were 99 percent and 94 percent respectively, which
represented substantial progress towards meeting the PDO. Ten million dollars were
earmarked for technical assistance and capacity building to support ERRA and provincial
and local governments in overall project management, hazard risk management, reporting,
monitoring and evaluation and compliance with safeguards. Necessary equipment and
vehicles were provided to SERRA, PERRA and DRUs. In addition, ERRA launched
DRM pilot projects in Muzaffarabad and Mansehra for the preparation of macro level
hazard risk maps, enhancement of response capacity of communities through training,
and mainstreaming DRM in government planning process.

Livelihood Support: This component was rated satisfactory. It achieved successful
implementation and full disbursement within two years of the program. The component
constituted 21 percent of the total original credit sought to provide cash grants of Rs.
3,000 per household to an initial target population of 250,000 eligible households. The



                                            8
cash grant was aimed at addressing immediate basic needs (including food items).
However, due to delays in finalization of the eligibility criteria and methodology the
launch of this component was delayed for four month not until April 2006. The last phase
of payments was made in October 2007. Approximately US$77 million was disbursed
amongst a total of 260,802 families. Furthermore, a total of 20,866 families which were
considered for extended support, received an additional US$4 million, bringing total
disbursement to US$81 million.

Import Financing: This component constituted 21 percent of the original credit.
However, when additional financing due to the 2010 floods is considered, the component
constituted 55 percent of the total US$ 700 million (original credit plus additional
financing). This component was designed to provide quick-disbursing assistance to the
GOP, to partially finance the imports of items required for reconstruction and
rehabilitation activities. An agreed positive list governed the procurements from this
component. The additional funds provided a single tranche assistance to the GOP to
import the necessary POL items, as required in the immediate aftermath of the disaster.
The component was fully disbursed.

Capacity Building: This component financed capacity building of ERRA and its
subordinate institutions to manage the recovery, reconstruction and rehabilitation
program in the earthquake affected areas of AJK and NWFP. Significant focus was on
institutional capacity building as well as Hazard Risk Management to ensure safe
reconstruction of houses and to encourage a culture of preparedness for future natural
disasters. As agreed through a tri-lateral agreement between the Bank, ERRA and
NDMA, US$ 4 million were provided to NDMA to undertake various DRM activities,
including a national multi-hazard risk assessment, establishment of a National
Emergency Operations Center, development of a National Disaster Response Plan and
formulate standard operating procedures. A PMU within NDMA was also established to
undertake these activities.

Challenges: Due to the unprecedented scale of the disaster and the conditions in the
affected areas, a number of challenges posed the risk of derailing and delaying
implementation of some of the project activities. Firstly, there were coordination issues
resulting from a large number of stakeholders involved in the earthquake response. These
included UN agencies working on relief, recovery and rehabilitation, national and
international NGOs providing assistance over a broad thematic and geographic canvas
and multiple government agencies. This threatened to overwhelm the coordination
capacity of the Government and as a result, potentially lose the coherence of the response.
A review of the ISRs shows that ERRA demonstrated strong leadership to manage the
recovery and rehabilitation by working closely with the provincial Governments of AJK,
NWFP and the Pakistan Army.

However, the role of the army‘s monitoring team in the reconstruction program in AJK
and NWFP was difficult to coordinate. The two formations of the army in the two
provinces were reporting to different channels making it difficult to harmonize
communication on housing standards.



                                            9
Secondly, reconstruction of a large number of houses simply overwhelmed the
production capacity of the local industry and resulted in a shortage and increase in prices
of materials. This was further exacerbated by a sudden increase in demand due to
investment by different donors which saturated the market and increased the prices of the
materials rendering the estimation of costs obsolete. This challenge was overcome by
import of materials from the neighboring countries (e.g. India) which resulted in
alleviating the strains on the local supply to some extent. Furthermore, the government
monitored the prices on a regular basis to ensure that there was no artificial price hike. To
keep the prices reasonable, ERRA facilitated transportation and space for materials in
decentralized hubs located in different regions.

Thirdly, as part of the various DRM initiatives undertaken by NDMA, a contract was
awarded to a semi-governmental French firm to carry out a national risk assessment as a
joint venture with local partners in Pakistan. However, due to the deteriorating security
situation in the country at the time, the French firm‘s staff was not able to travel to
Pakistan and made arrangements for the local partners to collect and dispatch the
necessary data to France for analysis. The GOP objected to the transfer of the potentially
sensitive geographic / topographic data to a foreign country. As a result, the project never
materialized.

Initially a high percentage of non-compliant houses were reconstructed in the affected
areas. Such instances were to be identified and corrected through a Non-Compliant
Reconstruction Referral System (NCRRS). Under the NCRRS, the field inspection teams
assessed the compliance of reconstructed houses with the seismic-resistant standards of
the project and made corrective recommendations to house-owners. However, due to the
large number of instances where non-compliance to the standards was observed, the
NCRRS was not effective initially. Additional field resources had to be mobilized to
address this issue.

Another challenge which emerged was the reluctance of the Government to invoke the
penalty clause in the MoU that required the house-owners to complete reconstruction
within a stipulated time or risked suspension of further disbursements.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

A distinguishing feature of the project that also contributed to its successful
implementation was the robust and participatory monitoring, evaluation and reporting
system.

Due to the complex nature of the activities in the post-earthquake scenario and the large
number of beneficiaries targeted over a diverse geographic area along with access
challenges, the program required the presence of an integrated M&E system that would
enable undertaking mid-course corrections and promptly identify any bottlenecks and
undertake corrective measures. For this purpose, the World Bank and ERRA created a
reporting, monitoring and evaluation system to enable the decision makers to utilize the
information in order to make informed decisions. This enabled ERRA to identify trends



                                             10
and issues and to take corrective actions for areas that were having issues due to different
reasons.

The M&E system was primarily geared towards the housing reconstruction component. A
number of monitoring indicators were tracked during the implementation. These included
physical reconstruction (number of houses reconstructed in the affected areas),
disbursements (the flow of funds from ERRA to SERRA / PERRA and the number of
beneficiaries), and number of master trainers educated in DRM.

The central RME system housed at ERRA received inputs from a number of sources,
including amongst others; (i) ERRA and army monitoring units/mobile teams in the field;
(ii) National Database and Registration Authority (NADRA); (iii) banks and; (iv) partner
organizations operating at the union council/community level. Through the RME, ERRA
was able to identify trends, particularly related to quality of housing in certain area or the
number of disbursements vis-à-vis number of houses reconstructed in a given district.

The M&E arrangements for the livelihoods support component primarily monitored
disbursement and number of beneficiaries. To ensure support to the beneficiaries, the
World Bank and ERRA in partnership with the NADRA created an online Grievance
Redressal Mechanism (GRM) to identify and address the grievances and issues of the
beneficiaries in real time.

Lastly, to deal with the issue of non-compliance and to take corrective measures an
integrated NCRRS was established to identify, document, analyze and provide solutions
for non-compliance leading to higher levels of compliance in reconstruction of houses.

Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The overall safeguard compliance of the project is rated moderately satisfactory.

Environmental Impacts and Safeguards. The project involved restoration and
reconstruction of damaged and destroyed buildings and roads in the affected areas in AJK
and NWFP. Due to the nature and size of individual sub-projects, the project was rated as
environmental category B.

During the Appraisal, the Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment
Framework (ESSAF) provided general policies, guidelines, code of practices and
procedures to be integrated into the implementation of the project. During the initial
period, ESSAF required a safeguard focal point (SFP) in the implementing agency to
oversee the implementation of the framework. In this regard, ERRA appointed Deputy
Director (Environment) to head the environmental protection cell and oversee the ESSAF
implementation. Furthermore, ERRA developed the environmental strategy and
environmental management plan (EMP) to address environmental and social issues for
the entire project. Environmental experts at the ERRA and PERRA level, as well as
environment monitors at the DRU levels were also inducted.




                                             11
ERRA also undertook limited Environmental Assessment (EA), in accordance with
ESSAF requirements to assess the impact of project components, particularly housing
reconstruction. In line with ESSAF requirements regarding capacity building, ERRA
undertook a training needs assessment and completed one round of environmental
trainings in AJK, which was attended by SERRA, DRU staff and personnel from the
various line departments.

Social issues. In an effort to address social aspects of ESSAF, ERRA appointed a social
safeguards focal point. ERRA also undertook a Social Impact Assessment (SIA), which
was reviewed and cleared by the Bank. The widely-disseminated SIA provided baseline
data, informed the project regarding the application of the ESSAF, identified social issues
with respect to ERRA‘s programs and recommended indicators for monitoring.

Following the completion of the initial social impact assessment, the CSIA was expected
to be undertaken; however, it was not carried out. As laid out in the Technical Annex, the
CSIA was intended to facilitate the articulation of community perceptions, grievances
and feedback for the housing and livelihood components and hence would contribute to
harnessing community based accountability.

ERRA implemented an effective and transparent GRM to receive and address the
complaints lodged by those affected by the earthquake. The MIS-based system ensured
one-window operation for the full cycle of the GRM—right from complaint lodging to
problem solving. The system also provided a helpline facility via telephone, fax and
email for those affected. Throughout the duration of the program, Data Resource Centers
(DRCs) in AJK and SERRA helpline received and resolved more than 350,000
complaints related to housing cash grants. Concurrently, DRCs in NWFP and PERRA
entertained about 200,000 complaints.

Fiduciary aspects. Several Financial Management (FM) risks were identified at the
appraisal stage of the project, which highlighted the dearth of a financial management
team at ERRA, weak auditing capacity, potential mismanagement of livelihood cash
grants and inability to comprehend complexity in funds flow arrangement. To mitigate
these risks, the project had provisions for hiring specific FM related staff from the market
to build capacity at ERRA, SERRA/PERRA and DRUs.

ERRA was able to address most of these issues with support from the Bank. The Member
Finance was re-designated as Director-General (DG) Finance, which marked the
evolution of FM and internal control systems at ERRA. ERRA also issued the
Accounting Procedures Manual to provide guidance regarding general and specific FM,
payments and internal control processes. Appropriate staff was also posted in the Internal
Audit Unit, while the Internal Audit Manual prepared under PIFRA was also adopted.
However, various Bank missions reported that under-staffing continued to remain a
persistent issue, particularly at PERRA and SERRA.

The submission of annual audited Financial Statements for FY 06-07 were delayed by
approximately 4 months. However, subsequently these delays were avoided. Quarterly



                                            12
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) were prepared by ERRA for all operations
undertaken by the entity, which also separately identified the sources and uses of funds
relating to major donors. This approach was fully subscribed to by the donors and
presented a complete picture of reconstruction activities managed by ERRA and its
subsidiaries.

Procurement. The procurement risk identified for the project was rated as ―high‖.
Procurement categories identified in the project paper were goods, works and services
with corresponding procurement methods and review thresholds. During the course of
the implementation of the emergency project, the Bank and ERRA maintained a close
working relationship to seek procurement advice on a case by case basis. A positive list
of import items was agreed upon with the GOP, specifically for the quick disbursement
component.

Unfortunately, at the inception of the project there was delayed recruitment of a
procurement officer and preparation of a procurement plan. Yet, given the required nature
of timely response, immediate action on these critical aspects had to be taken. ERRA,
PERRA and SERRA commenced procurement services without the Bank‘s prior
approval. However, ERRA adopted the PPRA Public Procurement Rules 2004, with a
few specific adjustments to allow it to deal with the nature of the emergency project. In
addition, ERRA developed a standard operating procedure for handling of procurement
and set up appropriate bid evaluation and procurement committees. Eventually a separate
Procurement Cell, housed within the Administration and Procurement Wing was
established at ERRA, which is headed by a Director General, Administration and
Procurement.

Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Most of the support provided under the project was for reconstruction of houses and
livelihoods grants to those affected and did not involve major operations and maintenance
(O&M) requirements.

Follow on operation. Since this was largely an emergency project and most needs have
been met, a follow up operation has not been planned.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1.   Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The earthquake hit Pakistan during the last period of implementation of the previous CAS
(2003). The disaster had a huge impact on the country and a direct impact on the
achievement of the existing CAS pillars and the Bank program. Since this was a largely
unforeseen major disaster, it was not included in the CAS at the time. However, the
objectives of the project, specifically to restore vital economic and social infrastructure is
in line with CAS pillars I and III for strengthening macroeconomic stability and
supporting pro-poor and pro-gender equity policies. Through supporting the government



                                             13
in reconstruction the project was able to soften the macroeconomic effects of the disaster
and most importantly, support those affected by the natural disasters. The following CAS
(2005—2009) took the 2005 earthquake disaster into consideration and highlighted the
vulnerability of the poor to shocks such as natural disasters under pillar III on ―Improved
Lives and Protection of the Vulnerable‖. The current CPS (2010—2013) calls for
improving disaster risk management and reducing the country‘s vulnerability to natural
disasters. The project objectives are also in line with the government‘s PRSP which
recognized the susceptibility of poor to natural disasters and shocks and the need for their
protection. Lastly, the new National Disaster Risk Management Framework (NDRMF)
calls for disaster risk reduction through structural and non-structural mitigation measures.
Under the project, all structures were constructed under the ―Build Back Better‖ model
and were seismic resistant in nature.

Design and Implementation. The design and implementation of the project was in line
with the required response in the aftermath of the disaster and also broadly consistent
with the CAS as well as government priorities. The housing component directly
supported the Rural Housing Reconstruction Strategy of the GOP. The livelihood
component aimed at addressing the immediate basic needs (including food items) of
those affected by the earthquake. The import financing component directly supported the
financing of imports of items required for reconstruction and rehabilitation activities. The
capacity building support component helped the Government to better manage the
recovery and reconstruction phases of the disaster response.

3.2.   Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The overall achievement of the PDO is rated as satisfactory.

The project achieved its PDO of: (i) reducing the immediate suffering resulting from the
effects of the earthquake and restore livelihoods destroyed by the earthquake; (ii)
restoring basic services to the affected population and rebuild public infrastructure; and
jump starting the recovery and reconstruction process. The project activities outlined in
the technical annex were accomplished as planned.

Other achievements. In addition to meeting the PDO, the project contributed to pilot
testing a number of innovative approaches especially in terms of participatory monitoring
and evaluation through online and real time systems which are expected to be adopted by
the Government in future disaster response operations. In addition, the capacity support
to ERRA enabled it to effectively manage the earthquake response by the GOP. Lastly,
the interventions in DRM under the project informed the country-wide disaster risk
management programmes especially in the area of community based disaster risk
management.




                                            14
3.3.   Efficiency

The project was an emergency response operation and no economic or financial analysis
was undertaken.

However, judging by the extent of devastation caused by the earthquake, the project‘s
activities were a timely and efficient response. The exact cost of the earthquake damage
is difficult to quantify. Some estimates were done. Approximately 73,000 people died
and more than 70,000 sustained severe injuries or were rendered disabled. It was
estimated that over 2.8 million persons were left without shelter and 2.3 million persons
without adequate food. About 203,600 and 197,000 units of housing were destroyed and
damaged respectively. In the affected districts in AJK, 84 percent of the total housing
stock was damaged or destroyed. In NWFP, 36 percent of total housing stock in the
affected districts was damaged or destroyed. The overall loss of public and private assets
(direct damage at book value) in the eight most affected districts was estimated at Rs.
135.2 billion (US$2.3 billion), and the resulting loss in income (indirect loss) was
estimated at Rs. 34.2 billion (US$576 million). The level of direct damage was higher in
AJK than in NWFP with the former believed to have lost about Rs. 76.4 billion (US$1.3
billion) and the latter‘s loss about Rs. 56.4 billion (US$ 989 million). Across sectors,
private housing suffered the most extensive damage (estimated at Rs. 61.2 billion
(US$1.03 billion)) followed by transport (US$ 340 million), education (US$ 335 million),
agriculture and livestock (US$ 218 million).

With an investment of US$ 400 million under the project, almost the entire housing stock
that was destroyed in the earthquake affected districts was restored. We cannot claim that
the total assets destroyed were all restored. But even if one assumes that only a small
fraction of the total public and private assets were restored, it can still be argued that the
intervention was cost effective and the right humanitarian intervention for the Bank to
undertake.

The 2010 floods disaster and needs assessment shows the overall economic impact of the
floods on the Pakistan economy. The total damage was estimated at about 5.8 percent of
GDP (roughly Rs. 855 billion), with damages in agriculture sector alone amounting to Rs
429 billion (over 14 percent of sectoral income). Other macroeconomic aggregates were
predicted to worsen following the impact of the floods. Again compared to the total loss
suffered due to the floods, an investment of US$ 300 million to mitigate (in a timely
manner) on some of the potential effects of the disaster was the right decision undertaken
by the GOP.


3.4.   Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall rating is based on the relevance of the project to the PRSP, NDRMF and the
Bank‘s CAS. The rating is justified on the basis of the speed with which the project



                                             15
achieved its objectives in a highly challenging and complex environment, the ownership
of the government, innovative M&E and GRM and effectively pioneering DRM work in
the earthquake affected areas which was taken as a model for future interventions in the
country.

3.5.   Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Poverty impacts, gender aspects, and social development. In the aftermath of the
disaster the project significantly contributed towards prevention of further increase of
poverty levels amongst the most vulnerable segments of the population through
reconstruction of destroyed houses and livelihoods support to those affected. The build
back better policy improved safety conditions for houses compared to the pre-disaster
situation. The project helped improve livelihood opportunities through training in seismic
resistant housing.

The livelihoods‘ cash grant provided much needed resources, particularly to female
headed households, to meet basic needs in the aftermath of the disaster. The specific
targeting of female-headed households increased their purchasing power and
economically empowered them to provide basic necessities for their families.
Furthermore, the project introduced and expanded formal documentation in the affected
region, including birth/marriage/death certificates, distribution of Computerized National
Identity Cards (CNIC) and access to the banking system.

Capacity building of Government entities and institutional development. The
government entities gained invaluable experience in managing and implementing a
disaster response project. The project particularly strengthened capacity of ERRA which
was able to effectively manage the gigantic earthquake response programme.

Other unintended outcomes and impacts. The project not only supported the
government‘s effort to rebuild the houses destroyed and providing livelihoods support to
the most vulnerable, it contributed towards creating a culture of preparedness by
encouraging earthquake resistant construction which had not been practiced in those
areas in the past. It created a large cadre of masons who are aware of earthquake resistant
building techniques which would ensure continuation of project interventions well
beyond project life. The support provided to ERRA not only enabled it to manage the
earthquake response but also helped in mainstreaming cross cutting issues such as gender,
environment and DRM in the recovery, reconstruction and rehabilitation phases.

3.6.   Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Beneficiary surveys and stakeholder workshops were not undertaken.




                                            16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial
The overall risk to development outcome at the time of project closing is rated as
substantial, due to the following factors:

Institutional risks are moderate. ERRA has been given the mandate to oversee future
(similar) disasters. Although ERRA built significant capacity over the course of the
project and displayed satisfactory performance, it is currently thin on staffing as many of
its employees have left.

Natural disasters risks are substantial. The affected regions have a history of major
disasters, including floods, earthquakes and landslides. The region is at a high seismic
risk. Although the program helped to establish seismic resistant construction standards
aimed at safeguarding against a similar scale of damages, it is difficult to ascertain their
sustainability in the event of any future disaster.

However, it appears that the program has contributed to stronger Government ownership
and commitment toward disaster risk reduction and management. The government seems
interested in enhancement of their disaster preparedness capabilities and considers the
project as a success. In this case, the ICR considers the risks due to lack of government
ownership and commitment to be negligible.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1.   Bank Performance

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

During design phase the project team ensured that development objectives and the project
scope conformed to the emergency nature of needs that had arisen due to the disaster. The
Bank team also maintained liaison with the government entities to ensure that the project
activities were in line with the government priorities in response to the earthquake.

(b)    Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team conducted regular supervision missions with at least one and sometimes
two or three missions per year. The Task team regularly discussed key issues and the way
forward with government, stakeholders and counterpart staff through face to face meeting
and audio conferencing. The Task team also regularly reviewed various technical reports
and financial audits and discussed findings and required actions with the government.
Supervision missions regularly met with various stakeholders, periodically inspected



                                             17
physical works in the field and conducted interviews with beneficiaries and community
groups.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Strong supervision by the task team allowed the project to successfully achieve its PDO.
Considering the challenges in implementing such a complex project in challenging
scenario, the Bank team did a commendable job both in design and supervision. Due to
the high quality supervision and coordination with the implementing, the Bank team was
given the Vice Presidency Unit (VPU) Award.

5.2.   Borrower Performance

(a)    Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Government managed the gigantic challenge created by the earthquake in a timely
and effective manner. Realizing the importance of looking beyond relief and focusing on
reconstruction of destroyed houses and provision of livelihoods support to those affected
was a strategic decision that paid dividends over the longer term. The government
provided support to the project and ensured timely completion of activities as well as
meeting the targets outlined as part of the PDO.

(b)    Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The implementation agency was given the challenging task of managing recovery and
reconstruction on a massive scale in the aftermath of the earthquake. It was a complex
task considering the scale of the disaster, inclement weather conditions and difficulties of
access to all those affected due to diverse terrain. Furthermore, it had to coordinate with a
large number of stakeholders including the local governments, army, Donors, UN
Agencies and NGOs to ensure coherence and equitable distribution of the assistance. In
spite of these challenges and different impediments created due to changing priorities,
market conditions and the capacity of the industry to meet increasing raw materials
demand, it managed to complete the project activities and meet the targets set of the
project.




                                             18
(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

In spite of the large number of challenges and the fact that ERRA was a newly created
entity in the aftermath of the earthquake, the project succeeded in attaining its PDO in a
timely and efficient manner.

6. Lessons Learned

Clarity of Implementation Arrangements: One of the major factors that contributed
towards successful and timely completion of the project was the clearly defined
implementation mechanism covering the federal, provincial/state, district and local level
governance of the earthquake response. For the reconstruction activities, ERRA created
parallel structures at the provincial/state levels in the form of PERRA and SERRA and at
the district level in the form of DRUs. These structures resulted in expediting the
provision of assistance to those affected in the target areas. In addition, partnerships were
established with national and international NGOs with clearly defined roles and
responsibilities which helped in ensuring timely and equitable assistance to the
communities.

Importance of coordination with all stakeholders: Responding to a disaster on the
scale of the 2005 earthquake is beyond the capacity of a single entity. The earthquake
response operation at its peak involved more than 80 stakeholders that were involved in
housing reconstruction alone. They included government entities, army, UN agencies,
bilateral donors and national and international NGOs. To ensure coherence and avoid
duplication, a Housing Strategic Working Group (HSWG) was established. In this forum
all those interested in housing reconstruction were brought on board and given the chance
to provide input for the housing policy and especially the training strategy. By doing so,
ERRA ensured strong commitment to common principles from among a very diverse
range of partners. The HSWG was split into thematic working groups concerned with (a)
technical guidelines, (b) assessment, (c) training curricula, and (d) information campaigns.

Coordination mechanisms were also set in place at federal level between ERRA, the army
and ERRA institutional partners. At the HRC level coordination was carried out bi-
weekly for all housing partner organizations and other stakeholders. These meetings were
chaired by ERRA District Housing Coordinators. At union council and village level
coordination was carried out between the army, assistance and inspection teams, training
mobile teams and village reconstruction committees.

Owner Driven Reconstruction: The dividends of such a large reconstruction project can
only be fully realized if an owner-driven, pro-poor policy ensuring equity is uniformly
applied across an entire disaster affected area. Under the project, individual families used
the financial assistance to rebuild their houses. The money was disbursed in installments
and in accordance to compliance with earthquake resistant building standards. To ensure
the success of such an approach, ERRA, international agencies and civil society



                                             19
organizations supported skills development in earthquake resistant housing reconstruction
policies, principles and techniques.

People affected by disaster were at the center of the process of recovery and
reconstruction. In the earthquake affected areas the focus in shift from building houses
for people, to supporting people re-build safer housing by themselves, aided by financial
and technical assistance enabled effective use of the available financial resources. It
enhanced the remarkable speed of reconstruction and the levels of progress of people
rebuilding safer homes. For the assistance community the main challenges of
implementing the owner driven approach post earthquake were to ensure that technical
assistance and training at field level matched the speed at which people are reconstructing
and receiving the financial assistance grants. Arguably as a result of the project‘s
interventions, there is now a shift in focus for NGOs from building houses for people, to
supporting people to rebuild safer homes by themselves. This form of implementation of
housing reconstruction is, consequently, one of the reasons for the rapid and
unprecedented rate of reconstruction.

For many of ERRA‘s partners, both national and international, despite funding
constraints and being overstretched in an operationally demanding environment, the
disaster in Pakistan has raised awareness of alternative and more sustainable ways of
supporting people‘s recovery and reconstruction. As a result of this project, NGOs are
better equipped to address and support the Government‘s recovery, reconstruction and
rehabilitation efforts. This ICR notes that this is valuable capacity that should be used in
other post disaster situations in Pakistan.

Anticipating and planning for cost escalations and capacity of construction
industry: The increased investment in construction of destroyed houses placed pressure
on the local capacity of the industry and saturation of the market due to increased demand
and ultimately resulting in cost escalations. The project had to face serious risks in
meeting the high demand for materials by allowing importation from neighboring
countries, such as India. Such eventualities need to be anticipated and mitigated in the
project design for reconstruction projects. ERRA tried to address the difficulties in
logistics and high carriage costs by establishing a network of building material hubs.

Real-time M&E and Reporting System: A project of this scale and complexity requires
an M&E system that can provide information not only to the decision makers but to the
stakeholders in real-time to enable identification of issues and bottlenecks to take pre-
emptive corrective measures. At ERRA a reporting, monitoring and evaluation system
was set up to receive data from (a) a Management Information System (MIS), (b) Army
inspection (c) NADRA financial assistance and (d) PPAF. The system allowed cross
reference and analysis of trends for better decision making. This system also allowed for
geographic visualization of data, which greatly enhanced the understanding of data and
report production. The MIS was a useful tool in the post-disaster housing reconstruction
initiative that enabled monitoring implementation progress. It provided useful data to
support oversight and decision making of all actors involved in housing reconstruction.




                                             20
Ensuring Compliance: The houses reconstructed under the project needed to comply
with very strict construction standards to make them resilient to the impacts of future
earthquakes. To ensure adherence to the minimum standards, a robust framework in the
form of a NCRRS was provided. This system was established at the grass root level in
place to identify, document, analyze and resolve issues of non-compliance leading to
higher levels of compliance in problematic areas. This enabled the project to cover a
greater proportion of beneficiaries which might not have been able to benefit from the
project due to non-compliance with the standards of reconstruction.

Embedding an Effective Grievance Redressal Mechanisms within the project: A
robust GRM was designed into the project to ensure that any grievances were recorded,
compiled and acted upon in a seamless manner without wasting time. The GRM
enhanced accountability by providing the beneficiaries with a framework through which
to resolve their complaints.

Ensuring Quality and Reliance on Indigenous Knowledge: Improving the quality of
construction and building materials and addressing deficiencies in workmanship
particularly in new building materials and techniques were key issues that needed to be
addressed at the onset of the project. The unregulated production of substandard materials
such as concrete blocks and prefabricated steel columns was addressed by ERRA through
confirmation and enforcement of standards. Work in the earthquake affected areas has
shown the need to advocate as much as possible for the use of familiar construction
techniques. This was a key factor in the speed of reconstruction. Valuable cultural
practices in building that differ from the norm, such as the traditional housing were also
taken into consideration.

Mainstreaming Disaster preparedness in emergency reconstruction projects: The
project showed the value of incorporating preparedness and DRM related elements in a
recovery and reconstruction efforts. Not only did the project focus on reconstruction and
livelihoods support, but also supported creation of a culture of preparedness in the
earthquake affected areas that were later replicated in the entire country. Construction of
more earthquake resistant houses and roll out of DRM trainings are among two of the
tangible achievements in the aftermath of the disaster.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

                           [See Annex 7 for the Borrower ICR]
(b) Co-financiers.

There were no co-financiers for this project. However, there were other national and
international stakeholders like the affectees, federal and provincial/state governments,
ERRA, PERRA, SERRA, NADRA, UN-HABITAT, ADB, IDB and other agencies who
played their role from designing to the implementation of the project.




                                             21
(c) Other Partners and stakeholders

No other partners and stakeholders were asked to provide comments on this ICR.
However, it should be noted that PPAF and its POs were the other executing partners and
stakeholders in the RHRP. They implemented ERRA‘s policy formulated in consultation
with other national and international partners and stakeholders.

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                                Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                   Appraisal
                                                       millions)5
 Housing                               220.00             220.00                     100 %
 Livelihood Support                     85.00              85.00                     100 %
 Import Financing                       85.00             385.00                     452 %
 Capacity Building                      10.00              10.00                     100 %

               Total Baseline Cost            400.00               700.00
Physical Contingencies
                                                0.00                    0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                0.00                 0.00             0.00
             Total Project Costs                0.00               700.00
Front-end fee PPF                               0.00                 0.00              .00
Front-end fee IBRD                              0.00                 0.00              .00
     Total Financing Required                   0.00               700.00




(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
             Source of Funds
                                          Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                           millions)    millions)
Borrower                                                0.00         0.00         .00
International Development
                                                        400.00           700.00     175 %
Association (IDA)




5
    Due to exchange rate fluctuations, actual disbursement was:
       US$ 418.87 million for the original ERC project
       US$ 310.37 million for Additional Financing and Restructuring

                                                  22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Housing component. Under the ERRA program, a total of 353,931 houses were to be
reconstructed. Out of these, 337,177 houses have been completely reconstructed and
certified as compliant with the hazard resistant construction standards. However, no
reconstruction work was undertaken in case of almost 3.8 percent of the houses (13,383
houses). Furthermore, around 0.95 percentof houses (3,371 houses) were found non-
compliant with ERRA‘s construction standards upon inspection to the degree that the
deficiencies could not be adequately addressed through retro-fitting.

         Houses to be             % Inspected        Compliant Houses       %
         reconstructed                                                      Compliant
 AJK            255,548           100%                  248,389             97%
 KP             207,695           100%                  190,400             92%
 Overall        463,243           100%                 438,789              95%

The issues of ―No Construction Work Started‖ and ―Non-Compliance Beyond
Recognition‖ tended to be highly localized within certain union councils as shown by the
below chart. According to the data compiled by ERRA, in 335 union councils where
more than 10 houses were to be reconstructed, the majority of the union councils (244 of
335) had more than 90 percent houses reconstructed and duly certified as compliant. Only
28 union councils out of the 335 union councils had less than 80 percent houses that were
either left unconstructed or were found non-compliant. In addition, most of these 28
union councils had a small number (less than 100) houses that were found eligible for
reconstruction and hence may be viewed as only a peripheral subset.

Financial Progress for the Housing Reconstruction Component: As a result of this
impressive physical progress, the Government of Pakistan managed to disburse around
US$ 1.307 billion to more than 600,000 beneficiaries since the effective start of the
program in May 2006. This constitutes about 87 percent of the overall estimated cost of
the program of around US$ 1.5 billion. This includes second grant tranches to 100
percent (440,606); third grant tranches to 99 percent (438,789), and the fourth and final
grant tranches to 95 percent (417,292) beneficiaries.

Livelihood Support: The component constituted 21 percent of the total original credit
sought to provide cash grants of Rs. 3,000 per household to an initial target population of
250,000 eligible households. The cash grant was aimed at addressing immediate basic
needs (including food items). However, due to delays in finalization of the eligibility
criteria and methodology the launch of this component was delayed for four month not
until April 2006. The last phase of payments was made in October 2007. Approximately
US$77 million was disbursed amongst a total of 260,802 families. Furthermore, a total of
20,866 families which were considered for extended support, received an additional
US$4 million, bringing total disbursement to US$81 million.

Import Financing: This component constituted 21 percent of the original credit.
However, when the additional financing due to the 2010 floods is considered, the


                                            23
component constituted 55 percent of the total US$ 700 million. This component was
designed to provide quick-disbursing assistance to the GOP, to partially finance the
imports of items required for reconstruction and rehabilitation activities. An agreed
positive list governed the procurements from this component. The additional funds
provided a single tranche assistance to the GOP to import the necessary POL items, as
required in the immediate aftermath of the disaster. The component was fully disbursed.

Capacity Building: This component financed capacity building of ERRA and its
subordinate institutions to manage the recovery, reconstruction and rehabilitation
program in the earthquake affected areas of KP and AJK. Significant focus was on
institutional capacity building as well as Hazard Risk Management to ensure safe
reconstruction of houses and to encourage a culture of preparedness for future natural
disasters. As agreed through a tri-lateral agreement between the Bank, ERRA and
NDMA, US$ 4 million were provided to NDMA to undertake various DRM activities,
including a national multi-hazard risk assessment, establishment of a National
Emergency Operations Center, development of a National Disaster Response Plan and
formulate standard operating procedures. A PMU within NDMA was also established to
undertake these activities.




                                           24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not applicable (emergency response project). However, as shown above in section 3.3,
this operation was the right intervention to undertake by the GOP.




                                          25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Shabir Ahmad            Program Assistant                      SASDO
Zia Al Jalaly           Senior Social Development Spec         SARDE
Asif Ali                Senior Procurement Specialist          SARPS
Syed Sayem Ali          Research Analyst                        SASEP
Shahnaz Arshad          Sr Urban Spec.                         SASDU
Ismaila B. Ceesay       Lead Financial Management Spec         AFTFM
Mohammad Farooq         Consultant                             SASHD
Inaam Haq               Sr Health Spec.                        SASHN
Mohammad Azhar Ul Haq E T Temporary                            SARPS
Zahid Hasnain           Sr Public Sector Spec.                 EASPR
Shaukat Javed           Program Assistant                      SASDO
Shahnaz Kazi            Senior Economist                       SASHN
Haris Khan              Consultant                             SASDU
Riaz Mahmood            Financial Management Analyst           SARFM
Muhammad Iftikhar Malik Sr Social Protection Specialist         SASSP
Vandana Mehra           Communications Officer                 ETWSA
Hanid Mukhtar           Senior Economist                        SASEP
Ambar Narayan           Senior Economist                       PRMPR
Asta Olesen             Senior Social Development Specialist   SASDS
Ayaz Parvez             Disaster Risk Management Specialist    GFDRR
Christoph Pusch         Lead Specialist, Disaster Management   SASDU
Muhammad Shafiq         Program Assistant                       SASEP
Shahzad Sharjeel        Sr Communications Officer              SAREX
Jaehyang So             Manager                                ETWWP
Zoe Elena Trohanis      Infrastructure Specialist               EASIN
Tara Vishwanath         Lead Economist                         MNSPR
Abdu Muwonge            Economist, ICR TTL                     SASDU
Raja Rehan Arshad       Lead Operations Offficer/TTL, ERC      SASDU




                                           26
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                   104                         397.11
  FY07                                                                 0.32
  FY08                                                                 0.06
                          Total:         104                         397.49
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                    80                         330.26
  FY07                                   145                         454.23
  FY08                                    80                         128.24
  FY09                                    54                           0.00
                          Total:         359                         912.73




                                       27
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Formal Beneficiary Survey was not undertaken.




                                         28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Rural Housing. Despite the great challenges such as the spread and remoteness of area,
short building seasons in the mountainous terrain, lack of technical capacity, shortage of
skilled labor, prevalence of old construction techniques and sense of urgency among
trauma hit people to meet their basic human needs, ERRA was able to evolve a broad
based unified policy after consulting with the local, national and international stake
holders.

The rural Housing Program achievements are manifested from the following:

   Brought about a sea change in the pattern of construction and in the landscape of the
    area. It is encouraging to note that over 3.5 million people have successfully moved to
    new safe and better homes.
   Over 95 percent of the houses have met ERRA‘s standard of seismic compliance. The
    houses have received about 1.5 million visits/ inspections by the Army, Un-Habitat
    and the M&E wing of ERRA. Targeted and bespoke solutions were also given to the
    affectees for maximum compliance of seismicity and other DRR features.
   For ensuring sustainability these teams provide technical support to households
    leading to the ownership of the community. Thus the culture of safety has become a
    reality. For implementation of the DRR principle, over 14,000 families were moved
    to safer places from hazardous land under the ancillary program of the landless and
    the virtual landless programs.
   720,000 people were socially mobilized and trained for DRR including 200,000
    women through 27 Partner Organizations in 232 union councils. Over 200,000
    technical persons were imparted training.
   Transparency was ensured as over 2 million financial transactions with US$1.3
    billion remitted directly to the affectees‘ accounts through robust IT system.
   A conspicuous spin-off of the Rural housing Program is that documentation of the
    economy as over 500,000 new bank accounts opened which created ample awareness
    in the area.
   Over 55,000 houses owned by women headed households and vulnerable
    families/population were reconstructed. Over 200,000 women participated in training,
    awareness and community mobilization activities which are indubitably a great
    achievement.
   Home owners mostly used salvaged timber and other construction material with
    minimal environmental impact

Livelihood Support Cash Grant (LSCG). To begin with, ERRA provided the LSCG
which helped the communities to rebuild their finances and prevented large scale
insolvency and indebtedness. Rehabilitation efforts during the early programme were
planned to restore the economic status of the communities. These interventions enabled


                                            29
the vulnerable communities to restore and sustain their income generation activities.
Table 2 below shows that more than 90 percent of the respondents were engaged in the
same profession/employment and income generating activities as they were before
Earthquake. This demonstrates the effectiveness of the efforts to re-establish the
communities‘ economic status. Table 3 shows the percentage distribution of overall
economic situation of households, after earthquake and before earthquake. Most of the
households indicated that their economic situation was restored to ‗before the earthquake
situation‘.

Table 2: Percentage Distribution of Household Income Generation Activity, after
Earthquake (After EQ) and Before Earthquake (Before EQ).
 Occupational Groups                      After EQ     Before EQ Difference
 Salary/Govt/Teacher/NGO/UN               20.98        21.62        -0.64
 Skilled Labour                           14.85        15.02        -0.17
 Business/Petty trade/Shop keeping        13.95        13.49        0.46
 Non-agri wage Labour                     12.73        12.9         -0.17
 Crop or Fruit Vegetable Product          10           9.91         0.09
 Taxi/Transport                           5.04         5.04         0
 Agriculture/Wage Labour                  3.65         3.53         0.12
 Pension                                  3.33         2.63         0.7
 Permanently away                         2.58         2.75         -0.17
 Private Professional                     2.46         2.14         0.32
 Hotel/Restaurants                        1.14         1.17         -0.03
 Military Services                        1.14         1.48         -0.34
 Cross border trade                       0.97         0.97         0
 Livestock Product                        0.78         0.85         -0.07
 Others                                   6.4          6.5          -0.1
 Total                                    100          100

Table 3: Percentage distribution of overall economic situation of households, after
EQ and before EQ
                              After EQ Before EQ          Difference
 Substantially Worse          8.46         13.96          -5.50
 Marginally Worse             27.31        32.25          -4.94
 Same                         52.81        32.62          20.19
 A Little Better Now          10.37        15.17          -4.80
 Much Better Now              1.09         5.81           -4.72
 Do not Know                  0.028        0.19           -0.16
 Total                        100          100




                                           30
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

The 2005 earthquake severely damaged public and private housing social service delivery,
governance structure, commerce and communication and over 2.8 million persons were
left without shelter and 2.3 million persons without food. There was a dire need to help
the affectees to stand on their feet.

The immediate challenge after the earthquake was how to manage and implement
reconstruction and rehabilitations programs in the earthquake affected areas of AJK and
KPK (NWFP). Existing implementing capacity of the Government at all levels (Federal,
Provincial and Local) and in all sectors was reviewed to be augmented through additional
resources. At the provincial level steering committees chaired by Chief Secretary/
Additional Chief Secretary were constituted. These committees were supported by
professionally staffed reconstruction agencies i.e. PERRA & SERRA. Execution of
works and procurement of goods and services was to be carried out by the provincial
bodies in close coordination with relevant line departments and local governments. At the
district level, District Reconstruction Units (DRUs) were established to support
preparation of plans and implementation of small contracts in coordination with Districts
Governments / District Level line agencies and partner organizations (POs).

The Organization Chart given below depicts the implementation arrangement.




   DRUs                                      DRUs




                                           31
Design of program

In this backdrop, owner driven model was opted for rebuilding and rehabilitating of over
564,000 houses through assistance and inspection regime for ensuring seismic resistant
reconstruction and to inculcate a culture of seismic compliance among the people.
National and international stakeholders planned to employ participative approach for
massive social mobilization and augmentation of technical capacity of the home-owners
and artisans/craftsmen for completion of the hazard resistant houses. A uniform housing
subsidy plan was devised for simplicity and minimal of disputes.

The program envisaged a transparent and efficient disbursement mechanism for release
of tranches of housing subsidy to each affectee directly into his/her bank account after
certification of physical progress of the house. As vulnerable groups were the worst hit, it
was conceived that traumatized and marginalized groups will be rehabilitated on a
priority basis.

The horizontal as well as vertical activities were devised in accordance with a logical
framework. Few are mentioned below:

   Damage assessment
   Design menu
   Social mobilization
   Technical assistance – training, inspection teams, mobile training teams
   Public information campaign
   Ensuring tail end supply chain management
   Data management and reporting monitoring and evaluation
   Support to vulnerable
   A responsive grievance redressal mechanism

World Bank support

The International Development Association (IDA) provided US $400 million to finance
four components, namely: Rural Housing Cash Grant, Livelihood Support Cash Grant,
Import Financing and Capacity Building. Human Resource capacity of key agencies
involved in implementation activities–ERRA, PERRA, SERRA and DRUs as well as the
line department / districts offices was enhanced through the recruitment of qualified
technical persons, such as planning specialist, implementation specialist, financial
management specialist, procurement and monitoring specialists, etc. Staffing
arrangements were finalized according to the implementation need.

Rural Housing. The Earthquake of 2005 was indubitably the most debilitating in the
Pakistan history. It wreaked havoc resulting in the colossal human and physical and
financial loss across the nine districts of AJK and Khyber Pukhtun Khawa. Among the
infrastructure and housing sectors, private housing was the hardest hit as over 611,059
houses were either fully collapsed or damaged and required immediate intervention to
reconstruct them.


                                            32
Predominantly ―response-centric‖ approach to disaster was used in the early recovery
phase. Nevertheless, with the broad consultation, the national and international
stakeholders agreed to incorporate/ mainstream disaster preparedness, mitigation and risk
reduction for future hazards components in the rehabilitation and reconstruction plans
under the newly created dedicated organization of ERRA. It was realized that there was
general lack of risk awareness about the building codes across the government sector
organizations and the public.

Livelihood Support. The LSCG was launched by ERRA during April 2006 with the
financial and technical assistance of the World Bank. The earthquake of October 8, 2005
left widespread destruction in its wake, killing over 73,000 people, severely injuring
another 70,000 and leaving 2.8 million people without shelter. Some 500,000 households
in the affected areas lost their livelihoods, more than one million people lost their jobs,
thousands of families lost their bread earners, mostly men, and thus, leaving vulnerable
female headed households with little or no income. While the Government and NGOs
provided essential food items to the affected communities during the initial relief period,
there was a need to initiate cash assistance to regenerate economic activities in the
affected areas, and to support reconstruction of the private houses destroyed or damaged
during the earthquake.

Capacity Building. The Bank a played key role in helping the GOP to deal with the
immediate consequences of the disaster and in longer term reconstruction and
rehabilitation efforts while helping to safeguard implementation of the ongoing poverty
reduction program. To further support the emergency recovery and reconstruction efforts,
IDA provided US $ 400 million through an Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC) initially
for the period of three years which was extended for another 23 months up to May 31st,
2011. Capacity building was a critical component which helps facilitate the executing
agencies to plan, monitor and implement the multi-sectoral reconstruction strategies
devised by ERRA in an effective and efficient manner. To ensure sustainability of the
capacity building program the GOP through its own resources committed for
continuation of capacity building activities already financed by the World Bank.
Furthermore, ownership of the said program rests with the executing agencies i.e.
PERRA, SERRA & DRUs functioning under the administrative control of the respective
governments.

Major stakeholders

The following were the major stake holders:

      Earthquake Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Authority (ERRA)
      State Bank of Pakistan( SBP)
      The World Bank
      Commercial Banks participating in the project
      State/Provincial Steering Committee
      KP and AJ&K Reconstruction Agencies
      District Reconstruction Advisory Committees, KP and AJ&K


                                            33
      District Advisory Committee, AJ&K
      KP and AJ&K District Offices
      UCRCs at KP
      RCRCs at AJ&K
      Beneficiaries
      NADRA

Implementation Methodology

The programme was spread over three phases. This included first, the targeting and
enrolment phase, second, the appeals and grievances phase and third, the party evaluation
and impact assessment phase. The last phase is yet to be completed.

Given the need for rapid implementation of the cash grants, the programme used the
institutional arrangements that had already been put in place by GOP for the relief and
recovery operations. In the transition phase (till the time formal structures of
Provincial/State Reconstruction Agencies were established and fully functional), at the
Provincial/State level, the Revenue Departments played the role of the executing agencies.
These were assisted by the District Offices and Union Council Relief Committees-UCRC
(NWFP) and Revenue Circle Relief Committees-RCRC (AJ&K) for implementation. At
the Federal level, ERRA was responsible for overall coordination, implementation and
monitoring. Component managers working at the district level and field coordinators at
the union council level provided requisite inputs for effective programme delivery.

A well-defined women-focused eligibility criteria was employed for the targeting of the
vulnerable families. For the initial targeting, eligible families were drawn from a universe
of families whose house was either destroyed or damaged, and who did not have any
family members currently employed in Government in grade 17 or above. Within this
universe, eligible families were the ones who satisfied the criteria of: (i) family headed by
a female (widow, divorcee, separated or single), or (ii) has at least one disabled person, or
(iii) has 5 or more children (including orphans). A sum of RKR 3,000 was given each
month to each beneficiary household for six months considering the average family size
and local economy.


Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rural Housing. All the spelt out objectives relating to the short term and long term with
reference to the housing sector have been realized and seismic resistant houses have
become a reality in the EQ affected areas. Major output of the program is the construction
of earthquake resistant houses which have been completed over 95 percent and
resultantly over 95 percent people have moved to newly constructed better houses. Other
outputs of the project are disbursement of financial assistance and capacity building of
the affectees in earthquake resistant techniques.




                                             34
Over Rs. 73 billion have been disbursed in a transparent and efficient manner through an
automated robust IT mechanism. Over 720,000 affectees were socially mobilized and
over 220,000 were trained under the cascade of training.

Housing project has accomplished truly a daunting task. The impact of the program can
be evaluated from this fact that before the EQ of 2005, over 80 percent of the housing
stock was non-permanent (Kacha) houses which has now changed into pucca
(permanent) EQ resistant houses and it has brought about attitudinal change in the
people‘s behavior. As a result of all this, there has been sea change in the landscape of
the EQ affected area.
 Livelihood Support Cash Grant. Livelihood cash grants programme was launched to
provide immediate and interim assistance and replace income losses of the most
vulnerable households. The cash grants helped affected people get back on their feet in a
short time and provided much needed subsistence allowance. It also injected urgently
required cash into a devastated local economy thereby contributing to the revival of
economic activity in the earthquake affected areas. The cash grants programme was
designed to provide an interim livelihood capacity to 250,000 vulnerable families in the
earthquake affected districts in which it succeeded. However, it was not intended as an
on-going or permanent welfare measure. In nutshell, the programme provided much
needed critical cash flow to the affectees at the post disaster time. An immediate impact
of the same was that it helped them focus on housing reconstruction and bringing their
lives to normalcy.

Capacity Building

   The concerned agencies i.e. ERRA, PERRA, SERRA and DRUs have built their
    capacity through induction of qualified technical personnel, such as Planning
    Specialists, Implementation Specialists, Financial Management Specialists,
    Procurement Specialists, Monitoring Specialists and MIS Specialists etc.
   Information management capacity has been increased manifold which help facilitate
    communication / coordination down to DRU and line department levels for reporting
    and monitoring of ongoing programmes. At ERRA (HQ) level ERM ERRA
    Reconstruction Monitor has been established for the purpose.
   A credible Financial Management System has been put in place at ERRA (HQ)
    managed by qualified professionals. The system serves as a consolidation bench for
    the integrated MIS of the entire programme having capacity to produce FMR and
    financial statements of the programme.
   Target communities have improved disaster preparedness and enhanced response
    capacities.
   Disaster risk reduction is implementation in the planning process of the respective of
    local administration.
   A total of 5272 volunteers have been trained for emergency response which will help
    concerned Government in creating institutional basis for operationalizing district
    level Disaster Management Authorities.
   Stock pile items / tools worth Rs.105,134,315 have been provided to District / UC
    level (9 Districts and 202 UCs)


                                            35
   Hazard, physical exposure of built-up areas and physical risk assessments are
    performed and the relevant information represented on the maps. These instruments
    are available for the relevant authorities with appropriate contents and scale.
   Disaster risk reduction is implemented in the main planning processes of district
    administrations by improving PC-1 document.
   Target communities have improved disaster preparedness and enhanced response
    capacities

Outputs/Results

   Hazard Indication Map (HIM) produced for all districts and products made available
    in GIS
   Physical risk map produced for each districts
   Database on past events (event register) produced for all districts
   Remote Hazard Maps
   Detailed hazard map for key hot spot identified from Phase-1 mapping
   Detailed Risk maps for identified risk maps
   Authorities are made aware of DRR
   Contents of the guidebook is understood by local authorities
   Authorities can read maps and can implement hazard information into planning
    processes
   PC-1 document approved with DRR Performa
   Adopted methodology and approach developed project phase-1 with necessary
    modifications and improvements
   Capacity building of the local government officials and community volunteers
   Union Council based institutions i.e. UCDMC & UCERT
   Communities are provided with necessary equipment and training on basic DRR
    approaches

Efficiency

Rural Housing. The program has been relevant and efficient as all the set targets of the
Housing Program have been achieved, produced quality results, generated a lot of spin-
offs and profoundly impacted upon lives of the EQ areas in a period of five years.

 Livelihood Support Cash Grant. Programme was efficient in terms of achievement of
objectives within the time frame. As it was launched to provide smooth transition, so it
was strictly time bound. Programme did not only manage to complete within the funds
allocated, it was able to provide extended help to the most vulnerable and even exceeded
the target. Total cost of the programme was US$ 85 million for a target population of
around 250,000 families. Technical assistance provided by The World Bank for
programme implementation and monitoring was estimated to be PKR 300 million. Based
on expenditures incurred, estimated overheads were approximately 5 percent. Overall, the
programme had proved cost effective as its overheads were below 10 percent
(internationally acceptable level).



                                           36
Capacity Building. Given the nature of the program component, no deductive and
inductive methods can be utilized to ascertain cost effectiveness and financial rate of
return. However, keeping in view the projects outcome it can be safely concluded that a
reasonable degree of efficiency was obtained in terms of enhancement of capacity of the
implementing agencies in planning, implementing and monitoring of the reconstruction
and rehabilitation activities, besides, resilience to mitigate the adverse affects of such
disasters in future. One of the parameters to gauge the efficiency of the program is timely
implementation of the project. On this count, ERRA has the credit that all the program
components were implemented within prescribed timelines by the World Bank.

Summary

The project is a success story of ERRA which produced outstanding results to boost the
morale of the badly affected population and provided them the strength to stand on their
feet and start a new era of hope and success.




                                            37
Annex 8. Comments of co-financiers and other partners/stakeholders

Not applicable




                                       38
Annex 9. List of supporting documents

World Bank documentation

• Project technical for a Proposed Credit of SDR 281.8 Million to the Islamic Republic of
  Pakistan for an Earthquake Emergency Recovery Credit. Report No: T7664-PK Annex,
  2005
• World Bank, 2010, Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Credit and Restructuring of
  SDR 198.9 Million to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the Earthquake Emergency
  Recovery Credit. Report No: 56653-PK
• Joint Disaster and Needs Assessment, Government of Pakistan
• Aide-Memoires (2005--2010)
• Back-to-office reports and letters to Government (2005--2010)
• Signed Loan Agreement
• Country Assistance Strategy, Government of Pakistan
• Country Partnership Strategy, Government of Pakistan
• Implementation Status Reports (2010)




                                           39
IBRD34424




            40
                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 34424
                                                            TAJIKISTAN
     TURKMENISTAN                                                           CHINA
                                                                                                                                             PA KISTA N
                              FED. CAPITAL
                                 TERRITORY
                                                                         Approx. Line
                                                                          of Control
                                                                                                         EA RT HQ UA KE EM ER GEN C Y
                                ISLAMABAD

                                               Peshawar
                                                          N.W.F.P.
                                                               Muzaffarabad
                                                                  Jammu
                                                                                                              R ECO VERY CR ED I T
                                                                    and
               AF G H AN I S TAN                     ISLAMABAD    Kashmir
                                                    Area of Map
                                                                                                                                              HEAVILY AFFECTED TOWNS
                                                                Lahore                                                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                        PUNJAB
                                                                                                                                              PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                  Quetta
                                                                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                     PAKISTAN
                                                                                                                                              RIVERS
                     BALOCHISTAN
ISLAMIC                                                                                                                                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
   REP.
    OF                                                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
  IRAN
                                                                      I NDI A
                                     SINDH


                      Karachi
                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
          Ar a b ia n S e a                                                               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.



        70°E                                                                                                                                                                    0       25        50 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                         75°E
                                                                             TAJIKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                0            25            50 Miles


                                                                                                                                                                                    CH I NA
                         PAKISTAN

                                                                                                                                             Ka
                                                                                                                                                      ra
                                                                                                                                                              ko
                                                                                                                                     a                               r
                                                                                                       Epicenter                                                            m                                K2

                                                                  u   sh                               7.6 Saturday, October 8 , 2005
                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                        (Mt. Godwin-
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Austen)
                                                              K                                        5.6 & 5.8 Wednesday,                                                             a                (8,611 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                            n
                                                        u                                              October 19, 2005
                                                                                                                                                                                                g
                                                    d                                                                                                        Ind                                    e
                                               in
                                                                                                                                                                us
                                                                Chitral
                                           H
   A F G HA N IS TAN                                                                                           80 km

                                                                  N . W . F. P.                                 60 km

 35°N
                                                                                                                  40 k m                                                  Approximate
                                                                                          Batagram                                                                       Line of Control
                                                                         Saidu                                    0k
                                                                                                                    m
                                                                                                              2




                                                                                               Bala Kot                                                                                                 Kargil
                                                                                         Mansehra                    Muzaffarabad
                                                                                        Abbottabad                                                              Srinagar
                                                                                                                           Bagh

                                                 Peshawar                                                 Rawalakot                                                      J a mmu
                                                                            ISLAMABAD
                                                                                                                                                                      a nd K a s hmir
                                           Kahat
                                                                                                    Rawalpindi
                                                                     FED. CAPITAL
                                                                        TERRITORY
                                                                       ISLAMABAD
                  Bannu

                                                                                        PUNJAB
          70°E                                                                                                                                                       75°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                           DECEMBER 2005
