                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                           Report No: 56653-PK




                                   PROJECT PAPER

                                          ON A

       PROPOSED ADDITIONAL CREDIT AND RESTRUCTURING

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 198.9 MILLION
                          (US$300 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                         ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                       FOR THE

                 EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY CREDIT

                                   September 22, 2010




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective August 31, 2010)
                                Currency Unit =      Pakistan Rupee
                        Pakistan Rupees 85.64 =      US$1
                                  SDR 0.6627 =       US$1


                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                   July1-June 30, 2010


                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 ADB      Asian Development Bank                      GDP   Gross Domestic Product
 AJK      Azad Jammu and Kashmir                      IBRD  International Bank for
                                                            Reconstruction and Development
 CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                 IDA   International Development
                                                            Association
 CPS      Country Partnership Strategy                IFAD  International Fund for Agricultural
                                                            Development
 CoA      Chart of Accounts                           KP    Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
 Cusecs   Cubic feet per second                       NDMA National Disaster Management
                                                            Authority
 DfID     Department for International Development    PARCO Pak-Arab Refinery, Limited
 DNA      Damages and Needs Assessment                PDO   Project Development Objective
 ERC      Emergency Recovery Credit                   PEFA  Public Expenditure and Financial
                                                            Accountability
 ERRA     Earthquake Recovery and Reconstruction      PSO   Pakistan State Oil
          Authority
 FATA     Federally Administered Tribal Area          PIFRA    Project to Improve Financial
                                                               Reporting and Auditing
 GB       Gilgit-Baltistan                            SBP      State Bank of Pakistan
 GoP      Government of Pakistan                      SDR      Special Drawing Rights




Vice President:                                      Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:                                    Rachid Benmessaoud
Sector Director:                                     Ernesto May
Sector Manager:                                      Miria Pigato
Co-Task Team Leaders:                                Hanid Mukhtar & Christian Eigen-Zucchi



                                            2
                  PAKISTAN: EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY CREDIT

          PROJECT PAPER FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING AND RESTRUCTURING
                         (TO SUPPORT FLOOD RECOVERY)

                                                            CONTENTS



I.      Additional Financing Data Sheet .........................................................................................4 
II.     Introduction ..........................................................................................................................6 
III.    Background ..........................................................................................................................6 
IV.     Rationale for Additional Financing and Restructuring ......................................................10 
V.      Proposed Changes ..............................................................................................................11 
VI.     Fiduciary Aspects and Safeguards .....................................................................................13 
VII.    Appraisal Summary ...........................................................................................................17 



ANNEXES

Annex 1:         Results Framework and Monitoring Indicators ...................................................... 18 
Annex 2:         Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF) ................................................ 22 
Annex 3:         Summary of Relief Items Provided as of September 16, 2010 ............................... 26 
Annex 4:         Key Macroeconomic Indicators .............................................................................. 27 
Annex 5:         Positive List of Permissible Imports ....................................................................... 28 
Annex 6:         PSO Fuel Imports, Sales and Stocks ....................................................................... 29 




                                                                     3
              PAKISTAN: EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECOVERY CREDIT

I.     ADDITIONAL FINANCING DATA SHEET

                              Basic Information - Additional Financing (AF)
Country Director: Rachid Benmessaoud                       Sectors: Economic policy
Sector Director: Ernesto May                               Themes: Natural disaster management
Team Leader: Hanid Mukhtar & Christian Eigen-              (100%)
Zucchi                                                     Environmental category: B
Project ID: P099110
Expected Effectiveness Date: October 1, 2010               Expected Closing Date: May 31, 2011
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Credit
Additional Financing Type: Credit
                                   Basic Information - Original Project
Project ID: P099110                                 Environmental category: B
Project Name: Earthquake Emergency Recovery         Expected Closing Date: May 31, 2011
Credit
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Credit
                                         AF Project Financing Data
         [ ] Loan [ X ] Credit [ ] Grant [ ] Guarantee       [ ] Other:

       Proposed terms: Standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 35 years, including a grace period 10
       years.
                                        AF Financing Plan (US$m)
                         Source                                     Total Amount (US $m)
                                                        Original        Additional           Total
       Total Project Cost:                                 400               300               700
          Cofinancing:
          Borrower:
          Total Bank Financing:
              IBRD
                                                           400               300               700
              IDA
                                                                             300               300
                New
                  Recommitted
       Recipient: Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division
       Responsible Agency: Planning & Development Division
       Contact Person: Ashraf M. Hayat, Secretary, Planning & Development Division
       Telephone No.: 051-921-2831, 051-920-6444
       Fax No.: 051-920-2704
       Email: secretary@pc.gov.pk
                              AF Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
       FY                                          2010/11                            2011/12
       Annual                                        300
       Cumulative                                    300
       Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                     [ ]Yes [X] No
       Have these been approved by Bank management?                                    [ ]Yes [ ] No




                                                 4
       Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or                  [ ]Yes [X] No
       "high"?
       Original project development objective:

       To support the efforts of the Government of Pakistan to: (i) Reduce the immediate suffering
       resulting from the effects of the earthquake and restore livelihoods destroyed by the earthquake;
       (ii) Restore basic services to the affected population and rebuild public infrastructure; and, (iii)
       Start the recovery and reconstruction process.

       Revised project development objective:

       To support the efforts of the Government of Pakistan to: (i) Reduce the immediate suffering
       resulting from the effects of the 2005 earthquake, and restore livelihoods destroyed by the 2005
       earthquake; (ii) Restore basic services to the affected population and rebuild public
       infrastructure destroyed by the 2005 earthquake; (iii) Start the recovery and reconstruction
       process from the 2005 earthquake; and (iv) Enhance the resources available to adequately meet
       the early recovery needs of people affected by the 2010 floods .

       Project Description

       The proposed Additional Financing and Restructuring will help the Government of Pakistan
       meet the cost of increased imports (from a specified positive list) needed sustain the recovery
       process from the 2010 floods.

       Safeguard policies triggered?

        Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                          X Yes     No
        Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                   Yes     X No
        Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                            Yes     X No
        Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                       Yes     X No
        Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                        Yes     X No
        Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                                 Yes     X No
        Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                           Yes     X No
        Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                     Yes     X No
        Projects on International Waters (OP/BP 7.50)                                   Yes     X No
        Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                         Yes     X No
                                       Conditions and Legal Covenants
 Financing Agreement Reference                 Description of                        Date Due
                                           Condition/Covenant
Section V.1, Schedule 2             Pakistan undertakes not to use                      N/A
(Additional Withdrawal              the critical goods (fuel) financed
Undertakings).                      under this operation for any
                                    military or paramilitary
                                    purposes.




                                                     5
II.     INTRODUCTION

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to restructure and provide an
additional credit in an amount of US$300 million (SDR 198.9 million) to the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan: Earthquake Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC), P099110, Credit 4134-PAK.1

2.      The proposed Additional Financing and Restructuring would support the Government of
Pakistan's efforts to respond to the loss of life and destruction wrought by the recent floods, helping to
finance some of the critical imports necessitated by the disaster. The proposed Credit is part of the first
phase of the World Bank's strategy to assist in the floods recovery in Pakistan, helping to ensure the
availability of adequate fuel supplies essential for relieving suffering and beginning the restoration of the
productive capacity of the economy. The financing will cover expenditures incurred by the Government
of Pakistan (GoP) on motor gasoline, jet fuel, and diesel imports needed for recovery efforts (as specified
on a positive list in Annex 5), which will be determined on the basis of import Bills of Lading.2

3.      The proposed operation would also entail restructuring the Earthquake ERC to: (i) extend the
scope of the project to cover all flood affected areas, (ii) revise the Project Development Objective (PDO)
and the description of Component 3 (import financing) of the project to reflect this extension in the scope
of the project; and (iii) change the implementing agency for Component 3 of the project from the
Earthquake Reconstruction & Rehabilitation Authority (ERRA) to the Planning & Development Division,
Government of Pakistan.

III.    BACKGROUND

Emergency Context

4.       Beginning July 22, 2010, Pakistan experienced extraordinarily heavy monsoon rainfall ­ nearly
30 percent above average ­ in the northern part of the country. Upstream, the high flow of water caused
extensive damage to settlements, farm lands and infrastructure, while downstream, the Indus River and its
tributaries burst its banks with flash floods inundating broad areas and submerging entire villages and
towns. Continued heavy rains hampered rescue efforts while the surge of water, bolstered by runoff from
further rains, proceeded to inundate many populated areas of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) and Balochistan
Provinces. By mid-August, flood waters had reached Punjab, filling the reservoirs on river basins
draining Southern Pakistan, before proceeding to trigger extensive flooding in Sindh. For example, the
flow through the Sukkur Barrage (Sindh) reached 1.4 million cubic feet per second (cusecs), though the
barrage was designed to withstand a maximum of 0.9 million cusecs.



1
  This Project Paper was prepared by a team led by Hanid Mukhtar and Christian Eigen-Zucchi (SASEP), and
included Asif Ali (SARPS), Augustine Pierre Maria (SASDU), Javaid Afzal (SASDI), Martin Serrano (LEGES),
Rakhi Bhavnani (SASDU), Saeeda Sabah Rashid (SASFM), Shabnam Naz (SASEP), Shafqat Manzoor Mirza
(SASGP), Nimanthi Attapattu (SASEP), Shaheen Malik (SASEP), Shideh Hadian (SASDU), Tahira Syed
(SASDA). The team benefited from the advice and support of Chau-Ching Shen (CTRFC), Hadi AbuShakra
(LEGES), Jennifer Thomson (SARFM), William Kingdom (SASDU).
2
  Storage, handling, transportation and use of fuel would require implementation of the "Standard Operating
Procedures" prepared by the GoP itself and emergency procedures in place to respond to any eventuality. Since the
environmental category of the original Earthquake ERC is B, the environmental category of the additional financing,
which uses the import financing component of the original project, will remain the same. Import financing does not
involve or support any specific construction activities, so no new EMP/EA (part of the Bank's environmental
safeguards requirements) is envisaged.


                                                        6
5.       The floods and ensuing landslides have affected all four provinces, as well as the Federally
Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), the State of Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK), and Gilgit-Baltistan
(GB).3 As of August 31, river levels were still high and rainfall patterns have not returned to their normal
states, with the consequence that several new villages are being flooded as barrages and other flood
control structures yield to the sustained water pressure. It is likely to be some time before the waters
recede fully. On August 11, 2010, the GoP requested the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) to undertake a Damages and Needs Assessment (DNA) in the flood-hit areas, and the One UN to
undertake an Early Recovery Needs Assessment. In partnership with development partners and other
stakeholders, the DNA was launched on August 16, 2010 and is expected to be complete by October 15,
2010.

6.       The devastation of the floods is national in scope. Preliminary estimates compiled by the
National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) of the GoP indicate that 1,781 people have died and
2,966 were injured as a direct result of the floods, with figures expected to rise due to secondary effects,
such as water borne diseases (Table 1). About 1.9 million homes have been damaged or destroyed,
displacing more than 7.5 million people, many of whom are now in congested camps finding it difficult to
meet basic needs like food, clean water, shelter, sanitation and medicine. Satellite imaging suggests that
about 2 million hectares of agricultural lands have been inundated, destroying or damaging standing
crops, causing major soil erosion in some areas, and potentially hampering the imminent new sowing
season if waters do not recede quickly.4 The transportation system has been disrupted by broken roads,
bridges and railways at various points, leaving many communities cut-off from public services and relief
efforts, as well as the income earning opportunities of the market nexus. Key structures, such as schools,
clinics, and municipal buildings have also sustained damage or been emptied of their contents. Electricity
and telecommunications networks have been affected, and water and sanitation systems have been
rendered inoperable. Other essential infrastructure has also sustained damage. For instance, the Pak-
Arab Refinery Limited (PARCO) mid-country refinery, which supplies 20 percent of the country's fuel
consumption, was closed on August 7, 2010 due to the floods. With access roads and bridges to the
refinery badly damaged, resumption of refinery activity is not expected before second-half of September
2010, necessitating elevated imports of refined products. It should be emphasized that the floods
adversely impacted communities that were already vulnerable, with low coping capacity and limited
human and economic development.

                       Table 1. Estimated Flood Damages as of September 16, 2010
                       Balochistan      KPK       Punjab      Sindh     AJ&K      GB                       Total
                                    (incl. FATA)
Deaths                     48           1,156       110         213       71      183                        1,781
Injured                    98           1,198       350        1,173      87       60                        2,966
Houses Damaged           75,261        200,799    509,814 1,098,720     7,106    2,830                   1,894,530
Source: National Disaster Management Authority, Government of Pakistan.




3
  Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan are the Pakistan-administered portion of an area over which India
and Pakistan have been in dispute since 1947. In providing this financing, the International Development
Association (IDA) does not intend to make any judgment as to the legal or other status of any disputed territories or
to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims.
4
  Some positive effects on agricultural productivity are expected over the medium term, as new sediment may raise
soil fertility.

                                                           7
Overall Economic Impact

7.      The floods are expected to have a substantial impact on the pace of real Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) growth, the rate of inflation, the size of the fiscal deficit, and the balance of payments (Annex 4
presents key macroeconomic indicators for the period 2004/05 to 2009/10). Before the floods, real GDP
was projected to grow by 4.5 percent in 2010/11, but growth is now expected to slow. With some 12
percent of the cotton crop under water, output may fall by up to 2 million bales of cotton, out of a pre-
flood expectation of 14 million bales. In addition, there are significant losses to the rice and sugarcane
crops, and the agriculture sector overall has been adversely affected. Given the strong forward linkages in
the economy through agro based activities, these losses are likely to cause a slowdown this year in
industrial production from the targeted 4.9 percent growth rate. The services sector will also be
negatively affected, due to reductions in ownership of dwellings, disruptions in transport, storage and
communications, whole sale and retail trade, and losses in finance and insurance, especially if non-
performing loans increase significantly. These dampening impacts are likely to be offset only in part by
higher construction and public administration activity as the rehabilitation efforts get underway.

8.       During 2009/10, headline inflation averaged a relatively high 11.7 percent, but it had been
expected to decelerate significantly this year. A temporary acceleration in food price inflation is now
anticipated as a result of flood damages to crops, vegetables, fruits, and livestock (many of those that
survived now lack feed and fodder). Supply disruptions are also contributing to price increases, which are
beginning to be reflected in the data. For example, the weekly sensitive price index (tracking prices of
essential kitchen items), was 16.7 percent higher in the week ending August 26, 2010 than the
corresponding week a year earlier, showing a two percentage point acceleration from the rate registered
just before the flooding began. The State Bank of Pakistan (SBP, the central bank) is moving to mitigate
price pressures, and raised the policy interest rate by 50 basis points to 13 percent in July.

9.       The budget is under strain. The 2009/10 fiscal deficit was 6.3 percent of GDP (compared to a
target of 5.1 percent), owing to a substantial overrun on electricity subsidies, shortfalls in tax revenues
and larger than envisaged federal development spending. The 2010/11 budget targeted a fiscal deficit of
4 percent of GDP, and although this target will require substantial revenue mobilization and a surplus at
the provincial level, the government seeks to meet this goal, before the impact of the floods. While the
more detailed assessment is still in progress, there is no doubting that the floods will entail heavy fiscal
costs. Tax revenue may decline as economic activity weakens, while expenditures increase with relief
and recovery related efforts. Various measures are under consideration, including cash and housing
grants to households who have lost their livelihoods and homes. Restoring basic public infrastructure and
services (roads, bridges, railway tracks, irrigation systems, schools, health centers, and power sector
installations) will also require substantial outlays. Rationalizing and reprioritizing the existing
development budget could yield some fiscal space, but overall, the floods may add significantly to the
budget deficit in 2010/11.

10.     Even before the floods, the current account deficit was projected to widen in 2010/11 from the 2
percent of GDP registered in 2009/10. The disaster is expected accentuate this trend, mainly by
increasing the trade deficit. Export performance may weaken, as the textile sector is impacted by the
need to source some 2 million bales of cotton that may have been lost due to crop damage, and a
promising new export ­ cement ­ will now have to be diverted to domestic consumption. In contrast,
reconstruction and rehabilitation will require a significant increase in imports particularly of food,
medicines, fuels, construction materials, and machinery. Workers' remittances are likely to continue
playing an important role in financing household consumption in Pakistan. Still, substantial external
finance will need to be motivated in order to sustain international reserves, which remained steady at
US$12.2 billion at the end of August, 2010, equivalent to about 3.6 months of next year's imports.


                                                     8
Relief Efforts

11.     The GoP moved swiftly to implement relief operations, though the scale and extent of the disaster
has strained its institutional capacity. More than 1.3 million people have been rescued in helicopters,
boats and emergency vehicles, and hundreds of relief camps have been set up. Several international and
national relief organizations have also been active, despite the continuing heavy rainfall hampering
access.

12.      The recent floods are of a magnitude and scale that would stretch the capacity and resources of
any government, society, and economy. Relief and recovery requirements are enormous, straining public
infrastructure, services, and fiscal resources beyond limits, and in many cases leaving critical needs
unmet. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) is coordinating the efforts of the GoP, the
provincial counterparts, the development partners, and other stakeholders. The Planning & Development
Division has been designated by the GoP to lead efforts towards medium- and long-term rehabilitation
and reconstruction. The international donor community is stepping up its efforts to provide assistance,
starting with the more than US$1 billion that has been pledged so far for relief and early recovery in flood
affected areas.

13.     Upon the request of the GoP for emergency assistance, and in close coordination with other
donors, the Bank is responding to the unfolding disaster in the following ways:

        Damage and Needs Assessment: To guide the development of a comprehensive strategy for
        recovery, the GoP requested the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) to
        undertake a DNA. The process began in mid-August and is expected to be completed by October
        15, 2010. The purpose of the assessment is to: (i) provide a damage and needs overview in key
        physical, productive, and social sectors, as well as cross-cutting areas of hazard risk management,
        flood management, economic policy, and governance; (ii) identify short, medium, and long-term
        needs and priority interventions; and, (iii) guide the design and prioritization of investment as
        well as other proposed recovery and reconstruction activities. A parallel Early Recovery Needs
        Assessment is being undertaken by One United Nations.
        Emergency financing: The GoP requested emergency financing of approximately $1 billion,
        including the proposed Additional Financing and Restructuring to cover elevated import needs
        generated by the disaster.
        Environmental Safeguards: An Environmental and Social Screening Assessment Framework
        (ESSAF) is being prepared as an umbrella document to be used on the proposed operations under
        flood emergency. The ESSAF includes an annex ­ General Guidelines on Environmental,
        Health, and Safety ­ prepared by the World Bank and IFC, which covers Health, Safety &
        Environment aspects in relation to potential environmental concerns arising out of some of the
        proposed projects. The borrower will ensure compliance and implementation of its own SOPs
        and the general guidelines given in ESSAF.
        Short to medium-term recovery: World Bank staff have also been collaborating with the GoP to
        reprogram existing projects in the portfolio, in order to provide high-priority and fast-disbursing
        assistance for recovery. This is a quicker and more flexible way to meet Pakistan's short- and
        medium-term recovery needs than designing and implementing a new multi-sectoral flood
        recovery project. It is anticipated that several ongoing operations will be restructured within
        existing credit amounts and used to finance recovery needs.
        Long-term reconstruction: Over the course of the next few months and on the basis of the DNA,
        the GoP will be preparing a long-term reconstruction program for presentation at the United
        Nations General Assembly Special Session on Pakistan Floods in mid-September 2010, as well as
        at the Ministerial Meeting of the Friends of Democratic Pakistan in mid-October, and the


                                                     9
        Pakistan Development Forum subsequently. In addition, and consistent with the World Bank's
        emphasis on institutional development, the Bank is working with GoP counterparts and other
        partners on ways to strengthen Pakistan's institutional capacity to effectively deal with the needs
        arising from recovery.

14.      In designing its response to the emergency, the team has drawn from previous experiences and
emergencies in other regions including the Pakistan Earthquake of 2005, the Earthquake in Haiti in 2010,
and the flooding in Nepal and India in 2008. Bank staff representing a range of sectors, as well as key
specializations in financial management, legal, disbursement, and procurement, have been mobilized in
the effort, assisted by the Bank's Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR).

IV.     RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING AND RESTRUCTURING

15.      The proposed Additional Financing and Restructuring aims to support floods recovery efforts
with fast disbursing import financing. While a fuller assessment is still under preparation as a part of the
DNA, the floods are precipitating a sharp increase in imports, such as food, medicines, tents, construction
materials, machinery, and fuel, even greater than the period after the 2005 earthquake (which was
estimated to have caused a direct increase in imports of about US$1 billion). Fuel is a key category of
imports, including motor gasoline, jet fuel, and diesel, which are essential for sustaining the recovery and
reconstruction effort. The operation proposes to disburse the full US$300 million in Additional Financing
against imports of these items (specified on a positive list in Annex 5).

16.      The NDMA estimates that substantial amounts of jet fuel are being used by helicopters and fixed
wing aircraft flying rescue and relief operations. In addition, heavy machinery, trucks, buses and other
mechanized vehicles have also required huge quantities of diesel and gasoline to date in their engagement
in flood response. Finally, as noted above, the PARCO refinery was closed on August 7, 2010, because
of flood damage to roads and bridges which provide access to the refinery. Repairs are expected to take
at least 5-7 weeks, suspending operations until the second-half of September. PARCO accounts for some
20 percent of Pakistan's refinery capacity, monthly producing 60,000 tons of motor gasoline, 60 tons of
jet fuel and 100,000 tons of diesel fuel. The closure translates into a loss of fuels worth over US$150
million, which will need to be imported in order to sustain adequate fuel supplies in the country.

17.      The combined impact of the recovery related fuel usage and damage to the domestic energy
infrastructure due to the floods is placing a significant strain on the balance of payments. Annex 6
provides estimates of PSO imports of motor gasoline, jet fuel, and high speed diesel, which sum to over
US$3.8 billion in the relevant period between August 1, 2010 and the project closing date of May 31,
2011. Given the wide scope of flood damage across Pakistan, at least 20 percent of these fuel imports
may be attributed to flood recovery and reconstruction activities. Adding the loss of fuels associated with
the closure of PARCO, it is estimated that at least US$1 billion in imported fuel supplies may be
attributed as having been necessitated by the flooding disaster, and the fuels category of imports will fully
absorb the proposed import financing. The Additional Financing would help alleviate pressure on the
balance of payments and ensure that adequate supplies of fuel are available to sustain recovery and
rehabilitation operations.

18.     The Bank Group's Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2010-2013 is aimed at helping Pakistan
address some of its major institutional, policy and financing constraints, and sustain high economic
growth rates, manage conflict, and improve human development. The four pillars of the CPS focus on: (i)
strengthening economic governance; (ii) improving human development and social protection; (iii)
bettering infrastructure to support growth; and (iv) enhancing security and reducing the risk of conflict.
In helping respond to the disaster, the proposed Additional Financing and Restructuring contributes


                                                     10
directly to the second and third pillar. Subsequent flood response initiatives will contribute to the other
pillars, as well as the focus on "improving Disaster Risk Management" within pillar two.

19.     As Additional Financing and Restructuring on the Earthquake ERC, the proposed operation
builds on the Bank's existing engagement on disaster reconstruction and risk reduction in Pakistan. At
the request of the GoP, the Earthquake Damage and Needs Assessment was undertaken by the World
Bank, the ADB and other partners in 2005. This was followed by the US$400 million Earthquake ERC,
which was approved on December 15, 2005. As a part of the earthquake response, the Bank also
provided US$238 million in additional financing to the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund for earthquake
relief and rehabilitation, which leveraged a further US$26 million from the International Fund for
Agricultural Development. This project had strong community participation in reconstruction and was
also rated satisfactory. Additional financing on a province level project was also extended to the
Government of KP for earthquake relief. Finally, the current initiative builds on other experiences in
preparing Damage and Needs Assessments, including Emergency Cyclone Damage and Needs
Assessment of Balochistan and Sindh (2007), and the Post-Crisis Damage and Needs Assessment of KP
and FATA (2009).

20.      It is worth noting that the proposed Additional Financing and Restructuring meets the
requirements of OP/BP 13.20, in that implementation of the Earthquake ERC is satisfactory, and the
additional loan is economically justified. The original credit has disbursed over 97 percent of the credit
amount, with the Housing Reconstruction, Livelihoods Support and Import Financing components of the
ERP have been fully disbursed.5 The most recent assessment of the project rates the current
implementation progress as highly satisfactory, and the achievement of the developmental objective as
satisfactory. The 2008/2009 Audited Financial Statement from the implementing agency (ERRA) were
conveyed on January 6, 2010 and are acceptable to the Bank.

V.      PROPOSED CHANGES

21.     The proposed Additional Financing and Restructuring on the Earthquake ERC is part of the first
phase of the World Bank's strategy to assist in post-floods recovery in Pakistan. It would support the
efforts of the GoP to: (i) Reduce the immediate suffering resulting from the effects of the 2005
earthquake, and restore livelihoods destroyed by the 2005 earthquake; (ii) Restore basic services to the
affected population and rebuild public infrastructure destroyed by the 2005 earthquake; (iii) Start the
recovery and reconstruction process from the 2005 earthquake; and (iv) Enhance the resources available
to adequately meet the early recovery needs of people affected by the 2010 floods.

22.     The size of the proposed Additional Financing, at US$300 million equivalent, is based on the
GoP's request for emergency assistance and the evident requirement of greater imports. The proposed
Additional Financing will reimburse funds on the basis of expenditures incurred by the GoP on fuel
imports needed to sustain recovery and reconstruction efforts, which will be determined on the basis of
import Bills of Lading and proof of payment.




5
  The Earthquake ERC became effective on January 19, 2006 and has disbursed US$403.8 million to date (more
than the original project amount due to favorable SDR ­ US$ exchange rate movements).

                                                    11
                             Table 2. Costs by Component (US$ million)
       Component                                Original cost Changes with        Revised cost
                                                                  AF
       1. Housing                                   220            -                   220
       2. Livelihood Support                         85            -                    85
       3. Import Financing                           85           300                  385
       4. Capacity Building                          10            -                    10
       Total                                        400           300                  700

23.     No changes are proposed to the design and modalities of Component 3 as defined and appraised
during the preparation of the initial Earthquake ERC.

Project Development Objectives:

24.    The Additional Financing and Restructuring involves broadening in the scope of the project
development objectives:

        To support the efforts of the Government of Pakistan to:
       (i) Reduce the immediate suffering resulting from the effects of the 2005, and restore livelihoods
             destroyed by the 2005 earthquake;
       (ii) Restore basic services to the affected population and rebuild public infrastructure destroyed
             by the 2005 earthquake;
       (iii) Start the recovery and reconstruction process from the 2005 earthquake; and
       (iv) Enhance the resources available to adequately meet the early recovery needs of people
             affected by the 2010 floods.

Key Performance Indicators:

25.    The following indicators, to be monitored quarterly, will be used to review the implementation of
the Additional Financing and Restructuring:

       (i)     Stocks of motor gasoline needed for recovery operations maintained at adequate levels
               (Pakistan State Oil targets 10 days worth of consumption) during the period of import
               financing (New).
       (ii)    Stocks of Jet A-1 needed for recovery operations maintained at adequate levels (Pakistan
               State Oil targets 10 days worth of consumption) during the period of import financing
               (New).
       (iii)   Stocks of high speed diesel needed for recovery operations maintained at adequate levels
               (Pakistan State Oil targets 15 days worth of consumption) during the period of import
               financing (New).
       (iv)    Value (in millions of US$) of certified Bills of Lading for fuels (detailed on the positive
               list of imports in Annex 5) needed for recovery operations (Revised).




                                                  12
VI.      FIDUCIARY ASPECTS AND SAFEGUARDS

26.     The overall fiduciary risk associated with the proposed operation is rated as `Moderate'.6 The
GoP's commitment to public financial management reforms is exemplified by actions already taken.
Progress has been made in terms of the accuracy, comprehensiveness, reliability, and timeliness of
financial and fiscal reporting; enhanced accountability and transparency; the use of financial information
for informed decision-making; and oversight of the use of public monies through risk-based audits.
Disbursements for this component will be transaction based made against withdrawal applications to be
submitted every month until the completion of disbursement after which the Ministry of Finance will
provide a written confirmation certifying the receipt of the Rupees equivalent of the Credit into the
Consolidated Fund Account of the GoP, the date of the receipt, and the exchange rate applied to translate
the credit currency into Rupees. A direct link between the goods covered under import financing and their
usage in flood related activities is not entirely possible. The disbursement will be made as reimbursement
of import expenses based on provision of proof of import and payment and a letter of comfort providing
assurance that the imported items are used for intended purposes. Acceptable annual audited financial
statements will be provided to the Bank by December 31, 2011. The Auditor General of Pakistan is
acceptable to the Bank as auditor for this operation.

Procurement

27.      A positive list of items for import financing has been agreed with the GoP (Annex 5).
Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines (Guidelines.
Procurement under IBRD Loan and IDA Credits of May 2004 revised October 2006 and May 2010). Up
to 40 percent of the Credit amount may be applied by the Borrower to contracts for goods on the positive
list made between August 1, 2010 and the expected date of signing of the Financing Agreement, and will
be eligible for retroactive financing, provided procurement procedures acceptable to the Association have
been followed.

28.      Commonly traded commodities may be procured under the Credit by the public sector through
established international commodity markets as defined in Clause 2.68 of the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines, or through simplified procurement procedures in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines (Table P1). All contracts would be subject to a post review by the Bank. The post review will
consist of verification of import documentation, including commercial invoices, Bills of Lading and
import Bills of Lading (Customs) provided and certified by the State Bank of Pakistan.

29.      Goods other than commodities procured by the public sector under this Credit would follow
simplified international competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines
(Clauses 2.66 and 2.67). However, to facilitate the speedy import of items required immediately for the
recovery effort, public sector agencies would be able to use Shopping procedures, in accordance with
Clauses 3.5 of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, for contracts of value less than US$3 million each up
to a period of one year from the date of the Financing Agreement. All contracts would be subject to a
post review by the Bank.




6
  Being based on import Bills of Entry, the proposed import financing for fuels are tracked to the point of entry into
Pakistan, after which the fuels enter the regular distribution network. The corresponding financing flows into a
foreign exchange account of the SBP followed by a corresponding transfer of Pakistani rupees into the GoP's
consolidated fund, as described in paragraph 36 below.

                                                         13
        Table 4. Summary of Procurement Procedures for Items on the Positive List
    Procurement Category                Procurement Method
    (refer to positive list in Annex 5)
    Public Sector Procurement:
    Commodities                               Through established international commodity markets, or
                                              other channels of competitive procurement as defined in
                                              Clause 2.68 of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines
    Goods                                     Simplified competitive bidding procedures under Clauses
                                              2.66 and 2.67of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Public
                                              sector agencies would be able to use international shopping
                                              procedures, in accordance with Clause 3.5 of the Bank's
                                              Procurement Guidelines for contracts of value less than
                                              US$3,000,000 up to one year from the date of the signature
                                              of the Financing Agreement.


Public Financial Management

30.     A Federal level Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) assessment was
completed in June 2009.7 It noted that reforms underway have contributed towards improvements in
public financial management systems. Most notable are the ones initiated under the Project to Improve
Financial Reporting and Auditing (PIFRA) funded by the Bank and the implementation of a Medium
Term Budgetary Framework which is supported by DfID. Donor-funded projects and a number of self
accounting entities remain outside the government financial management information system. The GoP is
yet to develop an effective internal audit function and continuing efforts are needed to improve the
effectiveness of tax collection and the management of cash balances impacting the predictability in
availability of funds.

31.    A Public Expenditure, Procurement and Financial Management review was completed in 2010.
The review concluded, inter alia, that expenditure effectiveness would be fostered by a concerted review
and revision of government business processes to eliminate redundant procedures in expenditure
commitment and payments, particularly for the development budget.

32.     PIFRA supported the introduction of a new accounting model, an IMF GFS-compliant Chart of
Accounts (CoA) for the general government. The mapping of the new accounting model CoA to GFSM
2001 is substantially complete, including full coverage of the Public Account and financing data.

33.     Timeliness of end-year financial reporting has improved at the federal level and in all provinces
and districts owing to the introduction of the automated budget management system. Within 12 to15 days
of the end of each month, civil accounts are prepared and presented to the Ministry of Finance. Year-end
financial statements have been prepared on the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS)
basis by the federal government and all provinces. District governments have also transitioned to this
form of reporting as part of Government's international financial reporting regime.

7
  The PEFA PFM Performance Measurement Framework (known as the PEFA Framework) has been developed to assess and
develop essential PFM systems, by providing a common pool of information for measurement and monitoring of PFM
performance progress, and a common platform for dialogue. The PEFA Program is a multi-donor partnership between the World
Bank, the European Commission, and the UK's Department for International Development, the Swiss State Secretariat for
Economic Affairs, the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Royal Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the
International Monetary Fund.

                                                          14
34.      To enhance the effectiveness of external audit, a risk-based audit methodology compliant with
international standards is being applied to the federal government accounts and to the financial statements
of provinces and some districts. In addition, efficiency has improved through the use of Computer
Assisted Audit Techniques and the application of systems-based audit methodology. The 2008-09
financial statements along with the audit reports of Federal, all four Provinces and state owned enterprises
were completed by end-January 2010 and submitted to the President and respective Governors by end-
February 2010.

35.     Legislative oversight across the federal and provincial governments has seen a marked
improvement over the last few years. Enormous efforts have been made by Federal, Punjab, and KP
Public Accounts Committees to reduce the backlog of un-discussed audit reports and audited accounts,
which was due to recurring interruptions of legislative oversight in the past.

                i.   Funds Flow Arrangements

36.      The Government of Pakistan will identify a Foreign Exchange Account with SBP, which forms
part of the country's official foreign exchange reserves, into which the proceeds of the Credit will be
disbursed. The Rupees equivalent of the funds in the Account will, within two working days, be
transferred into the Consolidated Fund of the Government of Pakistan (Account No. 1­Non-Food) held
with SBP.

                ii. Disbursements

37.      Disbursements will be transaction-based and made against withdrawal applications for
reimbursements submitted by the Planning & Development Division which is the implementing agency
for the Import Financing Component. Withdrawals are to be made every month until the disbursement
for this component is complete. Under the present arrangements, the fuels noted on the positive list will
be imported by Pakistan State Oil (PSO) and enter into the regular domestic distribution network. As
such, it will not be practicable to specify and identify a 100 percent linkage between Bank disbursements
and flood related expenditures incurred by the government.             Nonetheless, the GoP will provide
reasonable assurance in the form of a letter of comfort that the proceeds of the additional financing are
used to cover flood related expenses. The cost of imports as per the positive list will therefore be
reimbursed based on:

        Proof of import i.e. the Bills of Lading;
        Proof of payment such as retirement documents of Letter of Credit related to the imported items;
        and
        A letter of comfort from the PC certifying that the consumption of imported fuels financed by this
        operation is related to flood recovery, reconstruction or rehabilitation activities.

38.     The Credit will be disbursed over a period of up to ten months. Allocation of Credit proceeds per
disbursement category is indicated in the table below.

                                      Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Category                                     Amount of Credit           Percentage of Expenditures to
                                            (expressed in USD)                  be Financed
Goods under Part 3 of the Project               300,000,000                         100%
TOTAL AMOUNT                                     300,000,000
IDA financing is inclusive of import duties and taxes

                                                    15
                iii. Retroactive Financing

39.    Retroactive financing of up to 40% of the amount of the Credit will be provided for eligible
expenditures incurred from August 1, 2010 to the date of signing of the Credit.

                iv. Accounting, Assurance and Auditing

40.     The Planning & Development Division will maintain records to support the amounts claimed for
usage in flood-related recovery, reconstruction or rehabilitation activities. These will be made available
for audit and verification purposes to the Bank.

41.     Within 45 days of the completion of disbursement of the Credit, the Ministry of Finance will
provide a written confirmation certifying the receipt of the Rupees equivalent of the Credit into the
Consolidated Fund Account of the GoP, the date of the receipt, and the exchange rate applied to translate
the credit currency into Rupees.

42.      Annual financial statements for the Project will be prepared in accordance with cash basis
international public sector accounting standards. These will include information on utilization of the
imported items from the positive list in flood-related recovery, reconstruction or rehabilitation activities.

43.     External audit will be conducted by the Supreme Audit Institution, i.e., the Office of the Auditor
General of Pakistan, which is acceptable to the Bank. Acceptable audited financial statements for the
project will be submitted within 6 months of the close of the financial year.

      Audit Report Type                                            Due Date
      Project Financial Statements for Financial Year              December 31, 2011.
      ended June 30, 2011.

                v. Conditionality

44.     The funds from the Project will be not be used for military or paramilitary purposes.

Safeguards

45.      Since the environmental category of the original Earthquake ERC is B, the environmental
category of the additional financing, which uses the import financing component of the original project,
will remain the same. Import financing does not involve or support any specific construction activities, so
no new EMP/EA (part of the Bank's environmental safeguards requirements) is envisaged. As noted
above, an Environmental and Social Screening Assessment Framework (ESSAF) was prepared as a part
of the original Earthquake ERC, and a revised / updated ESSAF is being prepared for the floods ERC
project (expected at the end of 2010). It is to be an umbrella document covering the majority of the
proposed operations under flood emergency. The borrower will ensure compliance and implementation
of its own SOPs and the general guidelines given in ESSAF. Since storage, handling and transportation
of fuels is a routine business for the fuel companies with adequate Health, Safety & Environment system
in place, there is no need to create any further hierarchy within for the project component being financed
by the Bank. The project does not expect any large scale, significant and or irreversible environmental
impacts arising due to the proposed interventions to be supported through import financing.




                                                     16
VII.    APPRAISAL SUMMARY

46.       Appraisal was completed by September 14, 2010. The Bank team, including procurement and
financial management colleagues, met with counterparts from the Planning & Development Division (the
designated implementing agency), the NDMA and PSO. The proposed import financing was discussed in
detail, noting that the intent of the financing instrument was to provide liquidity and help finance the
GoP's overall response to the emergency and protect its fiscal accounts. It was also highlighted that the
Bank's emergency procedures allow for the financing of public and private sector expenditure on a
positive list of goods, both domestic and imported, required for Pakistan's emergency recovery program.
As such, the teams agreed on meaningful and feasible monitoring indicators described above and in the
results framework, as well as the modalities of the financing, based on import bills of lading, proof of
payment, and a comfort letter. All parties emphasized the importance of swift processing.

Procurement

47.      It is expected that the GoP will utilize the funds under this credit for the import of fuel. The fuels
expected to be imported under this facility are (i) MOGAS or Motor Gasoline (ii) Jet A1 Fuel and (iii)
High Speed Diesel. These imports will be procured by Pakistan State Oil (PSO) using established
industry practices. Items (i) and (ii) are procured through open tender processes. Advertisements are
placed in leading local and international newspapers and on the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority
(PPRA) website, based on demand generated. Tenders are opened publicly in the presence of bidders, the
PSO and a MPNR representative. Any bids not fulfilling bidding criteria, or conditional bids, are rejected
on the spot in the presence of the bidders. Conforming bids are evaluated by a committee and the lowest
evaluated bidder is offered a contract. The pricing mechanism is based on Arabian Gulf Median, as
quoted by Platt's, using the average of prices two days prior and post the Bill of Lading date, plus a
premium that the supplier quotes. The award decision is approved by the PSO management committee.
Item (iii) is imported from Kuwait Petroleum Company (KPC), based on a long term government to
government contract between the governments of Kuwait and Pakistan. KPC is offered the right of first
refusal, and if they cannot supply the needed fuel, then spot tendering is carried out in the manner
described above. The contract is renewed every three years and the premium is reviewed every 60 days.
It is understood that the KPC is the supplier of choice because they are the most reliable supplier in the
region, and also because it does not make commercial sense to import from outside the regional markets.
It was explained that the premium paid is competitive. The pricing mechanism is the same as described
above.

Financial Management and Disbursement

48.     Disbursements for this component will be transaction based made against withdrawal applications
to be submitted every month until the completion of disbursement after which the Ministry of Finance
will provide a written confirmation certifying the receipt of the Rupees equivalent of the Credit into the
Consolidated Fund Account of the GoP, the date of the receipt, and the exchange rate applied to translate
the credit currency into Rupees. A direct link between the goods covered under import financing and
their usage in flood related activities is not entirely possible. The disbursement will be made as
reimbursement of import expenses based on provision of proof of import and payment and a letter of
comfort providing assurance that the imported items are used for intended purposes. Acceptable annual
audited financial statements will be provided to the Bank by December 31, 2011. The Auditor General of
Pakistan is acceptable to the Bank as auditor for this operation.




                                                      17
            Annex 1: Results Framework and Monitoring Indicators

                     Revisions to the Results Framework                                      Comments/
                                                                                        Rationale for Change
PDO
Current (PAD)                           Proposed
To support the efforts of the           To support the efforts of the               The proposed Additional
Government of Pakistan to:              Government of Pakistan to:                  Financing and Restructuring
                                                                                    operation will help the
(i) Reduce the immediate suffering      (i) Reduce the immediate suffering          authorities respond to the recent
    resulting from the effects of the       resulting from the effects of the       floods disaster by providing
    earthquake and restore                  2005 earthquake, and restore            import financing for fuels ­ an
    livelihoods destroyed by the            livelihoods destroyed by the 2005       essential support to the
    earthquake;                             earthquake;                             recovery operations being under
                                                                                    by the GoP and other partners.
                                        (ii) Restore basic services to the
(ii) Restore basic services to the           affected population and rebuild
     affected population and rebuild         public infrastructure destroyed by
     public infrastructure; and              the 2005 earthquake;

(iii) Start the recovery and            (iii) Start the recovery and
      reconstruction process.                 reconstruction process from the
                                              2005 earthquake; and

                                        (iv) Enhance the resources available to
                                            adequately meet the early recovery
                                            needs of people affected by the
                                            2010 floods.
PDO indicators
Current (PAD)                           Proposed change* - New Indicators
Number of Bills of Lading for the       (i) Stocks of motor gasoline needed
goods procured.                               for recovery operations maintained
                                              at adequate levels (Pakistan State
                                              Oil targets 10 days worth of
                                              consumption) during the period of
                                              import financing (New).
                                        (ii) Stocks of Jet A-1 needed for
                                              recovery operations maintained at
                                              adequate levels (Pakistan State Oil
                                              targets 10 days worth of
                                              consumption) during the period of
                                              import financing (New).
                                        (iii) Stocks of high speed diesel needed
                                              for recovery operations maintained
                                              at adequate levels (Pakistan State
                                              Oil targets 15 days worth of
                                              consumption) during the period of
                                              import financing (New).




                                                         18
  Intermediate Results indicators
  Current (PAD)                              Proposed change*
                                             (i) Value of certified Bills of Lading
                                                 for fuels (detailed on the positive
                                                 list of imports) needed for recovery
                                                 operations (Revised).
* Indicate if the indicator is Dropped, Continued, New, Revised, or if there is a change in the end of project target value




                                                                19
                                                        Revised Project Results Framework
    Project Development Objective (PDO):
    To support the efforts of the Government of Pakistan to:
    (i)      Reduce the immediate suffering resulting from the effects of the 2005 earthquake and the 2010 floods, and restore livelihoods destroyed by
             the 2005 earthquake and the 2010 floods;
    (ii)     Restore basic services to the affected population and rebuild public infrastructure destroyed by the 2005 earthquake;
    (iv)     Start the recovery and reconstruction process from the 2005 earthquake;

    (v)      Enhance the resources available to adequately meet the early recovery needs of people affected by the 2010 floods.

                                                         Baseline
                                                                      Progress      Cumulative Target Values11                          Data
                                                                                                                                                    Respon-
                                                         Original                  Sept.  Oct.    Nov.    Dec.                                       sibility
           PDO Level Results                                          To Date                                                          Source/                   Com-
                                              UOM9       Project                                                        Frequency                   for Data
             Indicators8                                                (Aug.      2010 2010 2010 2010                                 Methodo                   ments
                                       Core




                                                           Start                                                                                     Collec-
                                                                       2010)10                                                          logy
                                                          (2005)                                                                                       tion
    1. Stocks of motor gasoline
    needed for recovery operations                                                                                                                 Planning
    maintained at adequate levels                                                                                                      Pakistan    &
    (Pakistan State Oil targets 10            Days                        8          6        10       10       10     Monthly         State Oil   Develop-
    days worth of consumption)                                                                                                         (PSO)       ment
    during the period of import                                                                                                                    Division
    financing.
    2. Stocks of Jet A-1 needed for
    recovery operations                                                                                                                            Planning
    maintained at adequate levels                                                                                                      Pakistan    &
    (Pakistan State Oil targets 10            Days                       18          15       10       10       10     Monthly         State Oil   Develop-
    days worth of consumption)                                                                                                         (PSO)       ment
    during the period of import                                                                                                                    Division
    financing.


8
  Please indicate whether the indicator is a Core Sector Indicator (for additional guidance ­ please see http://coreindicators).
9
  UOM = Unit of Measurement.
10
   For new indicators introduced as part of the additional financing, the progress to date column is used to reflect the baseline value.
11
   Target values should be entered for the years data will be available, not necessarily annually. Target values should normally be cumulative. If targets refer to annual
values, please indicate this in the indicator name and in the "Comments" column.
                                                                                    20
     3. Stocks of High Speed Diesel
     needed for recovery operations                                                                                                              Planning
     maintained at adequate levels                                                                                                  Pakistan     &
     (Pakistan State Oil targets 15            Days                     23         22       15       15       15     Monthly        State Oil    Develop-
     days worth of consumption)                                                                                                     (PSO)        ment
     during the period of import                                                                                                                 Division
     financing.
     Beneficiaries12
                                                                                                                                                              Flood
     Project beneficiaries,                   Number
                                                                        20         20       20       20       20     Monthly        NDMA         NDMA         affect-
                                              (million)
                                                                                                                                                              ees
     Of which female                          Number                                                                                                          About
                                                                        10         10       10       10       10     Monthly        NDMA         NDMA
     (beneficiaries)                          (million)                                                                                                       49%


                                                                 Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                                          Baseline                        Target Values                                           Respon-
                                                                     Progress                                                         Data
                                                          Original               Sept.    Oct.    Nov.      Dec.                                   sibility
         Intermediate Results                                        To Date                                                         Source/                  Com-
                                               UOM        Project                2010     2010 2010         2010     Frequency                    for Data
              Indicators                                              (Aug.                                                          Method-                  ments
                                       Core




                                                            Start                                                                                  Collec-
                                                                      2010)                                                           ology
                                                           (2005)                                                                                    tion

     Intermediate Result 1: Importing adequate supplies of fuel.

     1. Value (in US$ millions) of                                                                                                                Planning
     certified Bills of Lading for                                                                                                                &
                                               US$
     fuels (detailed on the positive                                                       120      90        90     Monthly        SBP           Develop-
                                               (mn)
     list of imports) needed for                                                                                                                  ment
     recovery operations.                                                                                                                         Division




12
  All projects are encouraged to identify and measure the number of project beneficiaries. The adoption and reporting on this indicator is required for
investment projects which have an approval date of July 1, 2009 or later (for additional guidance ­ please see http://coreindicators).
                                                                                   21
                            Annex 2: Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF)

                                                          Project Development Objective(s) 
 
      
     The Project Development Objective is to support the efforts of the Government of Pakistan to:
            (i) Reduce the immediate suffering resulting from the effects of the 2005 earthquake and restore livelihoods destroyed by the
                  2005 earthquake;
            (ii) Restore basic services to the affected population and rebuild public infrastructure destroyed by the 2005 earthquake;
            (iii) Start the recovery and reconstruction process from the 2005 earthquake; and
            (iv) Enhance the resources available to adequately meet the early recovery needs of people affected by the 2010 floods.
      
  
     PDO Level Results
     Indicators:             1. Stocks of motor gasoline needed for recovery operations maintained at adequate levels (Pakistan State Oil
                               targets 10 days worth of consumption) during the period of import financing (July 1, 2010-May 31, 2011).


                             2. Stocks of Jet A-1 needed for recovery operations maintained at adequate levels (Pakistan State Oil targets
                               10 days worth of consumption) during the period of import financing

                             3. Stocks of high speed diesel needed for recovery operations maintained at adequate levels (Pakistan State Oil
                               targets 15 days worth of consumption) during the period of import financing.

                             4. Value of certified Bills of Lading for fuels (detailed on the positive list of imports) needed for recovery
                             operations.

 




                                                                           22
        Risk Category         Risk                      Risk Description                                Proposed Mitigation Measures 
                             Rating 
Project Stakeholder Risks      L       Stakeholder interests include a wish to see             All reasonable assurances from PSO to keep
                                       stocks maintained at adequate levels and that the       stocks at appropriate levels, and from the GoP
                                       financial resources are actually used for the           that the import financing for fuels will be applied
                                       stated purpose. There is a risk of sporadic             to flood recovery and reconstruction activities.
                                       shortages (as evidenced by reports of filling
                                       stations having run dry), and that fuel imports
                                       may be absorbed by other, less pressing
                                       demands.
Implementing Agency Risks     MI       The Planning & Development Division is the               Given the expected quick disbursement of the
                                       country's premier agency to approve and                 project, Bank staff will provide close support to
                                       monitor development projects. It also provides          ensure swift implementation.
                                       help to other government ministries and
                                       agencies in preparation of projects. However, it        The proposed import financing is not likely to be
                                       may be lacking in certain administrative and            overly taxing on the existing coordination
                                       technical skills required for implementing              mechanisms.
                                       projects, which can result is some delays.              Development partners are working with the GoP
                                                                                               to strengthen flood response implementation
                                       The risks associated with PSO appear minimal,           arrangements for the wider programs envisaged.
                                       since flood related imports are only a fraction of
                                       the imports PSO has been handling for many              The Planning & Development Division is also
                                       years.                                                  expected to benefit from the ongoing
                                                                                               improvement in financial management and
                                       A clear mandate for wider flood recovery and            procurement practices., (as mentioned above for
                                       rehabilitation activities is still being established.   the wider GoP).

                                       Corruption concerns about the Planning &
                                       Development Division are significantly less
                                       than that for the overall government.

                                       PSO regularly handles large transactions and
                                       appears to have adequate financial management
                                       and procurement systems in place.



                                                                   23
Project Risks                                                                                       
 
   Design                             MI       Fuel usage specifically for flood response          The risk is mitigated by ascertaining that at least
                                               cannot reasonable be determined.                    as much fuel as is financed by the
   Social and                         L        The expected improvement in the fuels supply        Project design aims to facilitate the maintenance
     Environmental                             situation may help reduce possible social           of adequate supplies.
                                               frictions arising from shortages.
   Program and Donor                  L        There are no reputational risks for the World       Quick disbursing and timely assistance for 
                                               Bank expected from this operation.                  flood response will contribute to positive 
                                                                                                   public perceptions. 
     Delivery Quality                 MI       The funds are to be disbursed on the basis of         The GoP (Planning & Development Division)
                                               Bills of Lading for imports of goods on the           has agreed to provide a letter of comfort as a
                                               positive list, which then enter the regular           document accompanying every withdrawal
                                               distribution channels. This makes it difficult to     application, indicating that the application is
                                               ascertain that the IDA financed imports are           only for imports which are being used for
                                               being used for the intended purposes.                 flood-related activities.


Overall Risk Rating at Preparation         Overall Risk Rating During 
                                                                                Comments 
                                           Implementation 
                 MI                                       MI 
                                                                                As a short-duration AF, comprising only the financing of imports of
                                                                                fuel commodities to support flood relief operations, a rating of
                                                                                Medium ­ I appears appropriate. The main risks appear to relate to
                                                                                the sustainability of the macroeconomic framework, potential for
                                                                                complications in procurement arrangements and difficulties in
                                                                                relating the funds disbursed to actual relief activities. 




                                                                         24
 Final Decision Meeting Rating:
                              Risk Rating:   Risk Rating:
Appraisal Decision Chair                                      Date        Comments
                              Preparation    Implementation
                                  M-L              M-I        September As a short-duration AF, comprising only the financing of imports
                                                              16, 2010  of fuel commodities to support flood relief operations, a rating of
Overall Risk                                                            Medium ­ I appears appropriate. The main risks appear to relate to
                                                                        the sustainability of the macroeconomic framework, potential for
                                                                        complications in procurement arrangements and difficulties in
                                                                        relating the funds disbursed to actual relief activities.




                                                                 25
  Annex 3: Summary of Relief Items Provided as of September 16,
                             2010
           Table A3 ­ 1. Summary of Relief Items Provided as of September 16, 2010
                                                  KP
                             Balochistan    (incl. FATA)    Punjab      Sindh     AJ&K     GB      Total
Blankets                        22560           349781       63803      50189     20460   15200   521993
Buckets                           0              1521          0          70        0       0      1591
Cholera Kits                      0                0          149          0        0       0       149
Clothes                           0              3149         5553      6137       2012     0      16851
Dates (Tons)                     16                54          93         46        40     20       269
De-Watering Pumps                 0                35          38         32        2      10       117
Emergency Medicines Kits          0                30          24         18        0       0        72
Emergency Drinking
Water Kits                         0                 0        1540       750        0       0       2290
Foam Bed/Mat                       0               224        250        126       300      0        900
First Aid Box                      0               174        180        430        0       0        784
Food Items (Tons)                4112             25621      11561      5660       1185   1838      49977
Generators                        239              290        294        285        2      10       1120
Hygiene Kits                     4000              504        303        746       264      0       5817
Jerry Cans                       5000              6046       6550      3480       2410     0       23486
Jackets                            0               4667       166        166       2070   1000      8069
Kerosene Stove                     0               1528       260        670        0       0       2458
Kitchen Sets                     17394            60515       5354      31952      1247     0      116462
Mosquito Nets                     600              982        650       1500        0       0       3732
Medicines (Population)          423550           2215000    1015000    970000      6000   85000   4714550
MREs                               0              390000     24000      12002     12000     0      438002
                                                 10898+     18120 +    18700 +                    68823 +
Plastic Mats                    17400             22 Roll   14 Rolls   10 Rolls    2200   2035    46 Rolls
Soap                              0                2340       1620       750        0       0       4710
Squatting Plates                  0                650          0          0        0       0        650
Tents                           17231             116575     93876      51735      4299   5275     288991
Towels                            0                300        1580       750       300      0       2930
Tarpaulin                       79911             202108     46306      49489      4536    922     383272
Torch Lights                      0                1608       1500      1500        0       0       4608
Water Tanks                      35                 43         20         13        10      0        121
Water Purification Unit           0                 16         32         16        1       0         65
Water Purification Kits           0               13800      10104      8560       1000     0       33464
Water Bottles                     0               13632      28497      26584      6000   3024      77737
Helicopter                        1                 26         13        20         0       1        61
Boats Available                   16              150         485        587        0       0      1238
Person Rescued                  24630            50953      381496     923909      169    3243    1384400
Source: National Disaster Management Authority




                                                            26
                     Annex 4: Key Macroeconomic Indicators
                  Table A4 - 1: Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 2004/05 to 2009/10
                                                         2004/05 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09          2009/10
                                                                                                           Prov.
Output and prices
Real GDP at factor cost (percent)                             9.0     5.8      6.8       3.7      1.2       4.1
Consumer prices (percent, period average)                     9.3     7.9      7.8      12.0     20.8      11.7


Public finances
Total Revenues (% of GDP)                                    13.8     14.2     14.9     14.4     14.4      14.2
 Tax revenue (% of GDP)                                       0.0     10.6     10.2     10.6     10.2      10.0
    of which: Federal Board of Revenue (% of GDP)             9.1     9.3      9.6       9.8      8.8       ..
Total Expenditures (% of GDP)                                17.2     18.5     19.1     21.7     19.0      20.5


Consolidated government budget balance (include.
                                                             -3.3     -4.3     -4.3     -7.2      -4.6     -6.3
earthquake related exp. But exclu. grants)

Total government debt                                        62.9     57.4     54.1     58.4     55.6      56.4
External government debt (% of GDP)                          29.4     26.6     24.2     27.0     29.9      32.1
Domestic government debt (% of GDP)                          33.5     30.8     29.9     31.4     25.7      24.3


Monetary sector
Broad money (annual change in %)                             19.3     14.9     19.3     15.3      9.6      12.5
Private credit (annual change in %)                          33.2     23.2     17.2     16.4      0.7      11.6
Six-month treasury bill rate (period average; in %)           4.7     8.2      8.8       9.6     13.1       ..


External sector
Merchandise exports, U.S. dollars (growth rate; in %)        16.2     14.3     4.4      18.2      -6.4      2.7
Merchandise imports, U.S. dollars (growth rate; in %)        38.3     31.7     8.0      31.2     -10.3     -2.2
Current account balance (as % of GDP)                        -1.4     -3.9     -4.8     -8.4      -5.6     -2.0
Current account balance (US$ millions)                   -1,534      -4,990   -6,878   -13,874   -9,261   -3,495
Gross official reserves (in millions of U.S. dollars)        9,805   10,765   14,302   8,731     9,529    13,953
In months of next year's imports of goods and services        3.5     3.7      3.8       2.6      2.9       3.9
Source: Governm ent of Pakistan




                                                        27
   Annex 5: Positive List of Permissible Imports
            Table A5 ­ 1. Positive List of Permissible Imports
Code                                 Description
333    Petroleum oils, crude, and crude oils obtained from bituminous minerals
334    Petroleum products, refined
335    Residual petroleum products, n.e.s. and related materials
511    Hydrocarbons




                                    28
                             Annex 6: PSO Fuel Imports, Sales and Stocks

                                        Table A6 - 1. Motor Gasoline Sales, Imports and Stocks
                          Total Sales                                  Total Imports                                Stocks
                                                       Average
                   Value            Volume             Monthly          Value              Volume           Days of          Volume
                   (US$)             (tons)          Import $/MT        (US$)               (tons)        Consumption         (tons)
2009      July     102,295,500            145,100        705              43,581,690             61,818        5                   32,827
         August    125,102,000            176,200        710              45,696,310             64,361        9                   55,687
       September   103,305,000            145,500        710              46,731,490             65,819        8                   53,490
        October    119,919,000            168,900        710              19,236,740             27,094       13                   80,043
       November    105,632,800            145,100        728              45,997,952             63,184        8                   52,759
       December    100,604,300            141,100        713              23,399,947             32,819       14                   93,226
2010    January    132,380,500            173,500        763                     -                  -          6                   53,880
        February    96,577,200            125,100        772              53,044,120             68,710        5                   33,768
         March     157,243,200            192,700        816              26,786,016             32,826       11                   70,482
          April    133,868,400            168,600        794              51,029,586             64,269        8                   45,825
          May      127,558,800            167,400        762              80,984,598            106,279        7                   51,897
          June     124,587,300            180,300        691              26,146,749             37,839        8                   54,510
          July     125,712,600            184,600        681              55,908,738             82,098        6                   44,752
         August    126,615,000            183,500        690              66,634,680             96,572        8                   60,485
       September   140,140,000            196,000        715              85,800,000            120,000        6                   41,788
        October    148,720,000            208,000        715              85,800,000            120,000       10
       November    143,000,000            200,000        715              71,500,000            100,000       10
       December    143,000,000            200,000        715              71,500,000            100,000       10
2011    January    145,000,000            200,000        725              58,000,000             80,000       10
        February   130,500,000            180,000        725              58,000,000             80,000       10
         March     137,750,000            190,000        725              58,000,000             80,000       10
          April    130,500,000            180,000        725              58,000,000             80,000       10
          May      130,500,000            180,000        725              58,000,000             80,000       10




                                                                 29
                                            Table A6 - 2. Jet A-1 Sales, Imports and Stocks
                          Total Sales                                   Total Imports                                Stocks
                                                       Average
                   Value            Volume             Monthly            Value             Volume           Days of          Volume
                   (US$)             (tons)         Import $/MT           (US$)              (tons)        Consumption         (tons)
2009      July      70,635,200           104,800          674               32,176,760            47,740       12                   28,606
         August     62,694,000            97,200          645               26,372,760            40,888       22                   50,650
       September    64,919,400           106,600          609               14,881,524            24,436       22                   50,565
        October     77,307,800           114,700          674               42,164,092            62,558       15                   36,342
       November     70,996,200           102,300          694               16,721,236            24,094       22                   46,295
       December     81,162,000           121,500          668               36,902,324            55,243       16                   39,314
2010    January     76,806,600           111,800          687               26,185,005            38,115       14                   29,551
        February    70,727,000           107,000          661               40,479,640            61,240       10                   24,557
         March      83,797,600           119,200          703               46,405,733            66,011       13                   29,893
          April     81,712,400           107,800          758               47,580,418            62,771       12                   28,126
          May       87,515,000           115,000          761               35,701,554            46,914        9                   22,240
          June      63,700,700            90,100          707               36,341,921            51,403       14                   31,991
          July      80,241,600           116,800          687               50,755,560            73,880        7                   19,155
         August     70,700,000           100,000          707               49,448,994            69,942       18                   40,829
       September   105,750,000           150,000          705               52,875,000            75,000       15                   38,034
        October    105,750,000           150,000          705               49,350,000            70,000       10
       November    105,750,000           150,000          705               49,350,000            70,000       10
       December    105,750,000           150,000          705               49,350,000            70,000       10
2011    January    107,250,000           150,000          715               50,050,000            70,000       10
        February   107,250,000           150,000          715               50,050,000            70,000       10
         March     107,250,000           150,000          715               50,050,000            70,000       10
          April    107,250,000           150,000          715               50,050,000            70,000       10
          May      107,250,000           150,000          715               50,050,000            70,000       10




                                                                 30
                                      Table A6 - 3. High Speed Diesel Sales, Imports and Stocks
                          Total Sales                                 Total Imports                                 Stocks
                                                      Average
                   Value            Volume            Monthly          Value              Volume            Days of          Volume
                   (US$)             (tons)         Import $/MT        (US$)                (tons)        Consumption         (tons)
2009      July     330,170,600           613,700        538             177,600,794             330,113       11                  343,050
         August    571,339,200           965,100        592             169,625,760             286,530       12                  348,870
       September   256,397,000           453,800        565             243,126,280             430,312       12                  256,990
        October    425,927,200           725,600        587             243,224,037             414,351       25                  624,641
       November    441,484,000           703,000        628             203,434,320             323,940       23                  625,344
       December    338,705,100           561,700        603             237,913,650             394,550       15                  462,273
2010    January    423,562,500           677,700        625             207,887,500             332,620       14                   30,821
        February   259,530,000           422,000        615             203,563,155             330,997       19                  487,588
         March     452,081,700           688,100        657             188,320,509             286,637       24                  612,464
          April    498,852,400           703,600        709             223,803,649             315,661       23                  542,639
          May      388,078,200           582,700        666             308,466,558             463,163       16                  485,264
          June     389,748,800           605,200        644             251,103,972             389,913       13                  392,548
          July     424,423,800           664,200        639             258,277,410             404,190       18                  453,990
         August    231,350,000           350,000        661             133,606,608             202,128       23                  595,330
       September   346,500,000           495,000        700             105,000,000             150,000       22                  534,516
        October    392,000,000           560,000        700             262,500,000             375,000       15
       November    430,500,000           615,000        700             280,000,000             400,000       15
       December    441,000,000           630,000        700             280,000,000             400,000       15
2011    January    455,000,000           650,000        700             245,000,000             350,000       15
       February    420,000,000           600,000        700             245,000,000             350,000       15
         March     455,000,000           650,000        700             245,000,000             350,000       15
          April    490,000,000           700,000        700             245,000,000             350,000       15
          May      490,000,000           700,000        700             245,000,000             350,000       15




                                                                 31
          Table A6 - 4. Total Value of Motor Gasoline, Jet A-1, and High Speed Diesel
                                      Sales and Imports (US$)
                                      Total Sales                         Total Imports
                                         Value                                Value
                                         (US$)                                (US$)
  2009        July                    503,101,300                          253,359,244
            August                    759,135,200                          241,694,830
          September                   424,621,400                          304,739,294
            October                   623,154,000                          304,624,869
           November                   618,113,000                          266,153,508
           December                   520,471,400                          298,215,921
  2010      January                   632,749,600                          234,072,505
           February                   426,834,200                          297,086,915
            March                     693,122,500                          261,512,258
             April                    714,433,200                          322,413,653
              May                     603,152,000                          425,152,710
             June                     578,036,800                          313,592,642
              July                    630,378,000                          364,941,708
            August                    428,665,000                          249,690,282
          September                   592,390,000                          243,675,000
            October                   646,470,000                          397,650,000
           November                   679,250,000                          400,850,000
           December                   689,750,000                          400,850,000
  2011      January                   707,250,000                          353,050,000
           February                   657,750,000                          353,050,000
            March                     700,000,000                          353,050,000
             April                    727,750,000                          353,050,000
              May                     727,750,000                          353,050,000
Notes:   Value of imports are based on actual average monthly import cargoes ($/MT).
         Value of total sales is estimated basis on of actual average import cargo value.
         Figures of Sep 2010 till May 2011 are estimated that may change with the maerket
         dynamics & availability of local production.
         Product days cover are actual for the months Jul 2009-Sep 2010 - planned for the Oct
         2010-May 2011.




                                             32
