                                                                                                      93476
Reconstructing Lives and Homes, and Preparing for the Next Time
                                                                                                      May 7, 2012




 The Pakistan Earthquake: Addressing Challenges, Creating Opportunities


Overview
The International Development Association (IDA) joined with the Government of Pakistan to
help it address the daunting recovery needs in the aftermath of the 2005 earthquake. This
included, from 2006 to 2010, the reconstruction of approximately 80,000 housing units out of a
total of 430,000 reconstructed, the provision of livelihood support for approximately 280,000
households, of which 27% were headed by females, and building capacity within institutions to
better manage recovery and rehabilitation activities.


Challenge
The 2005 Pakistan earthquake, with a magnitude
of 7.6, was the most debilitating natural disaster
in Pakistan’s history at the time. The quake
killed approximately 73,000 people and left more
than 70,000 people injured or disabled. Over 2.8
million people were left without shelter and an
estimated 2.3 million people were without
adequate food. Initial estimates indicated that
over 600,000 housing units were either
completely destroyed or partially damaged. The
direct damages to public and private assets in           MORE
the eight most-affected districts were estimated           How Pakistan Earthquake Could Help Haiti
at US$2.3 billion, while indirect losses were              Documentary: Hope to Reality
estimated at US$576 million. Unprecedented
challenges due to the sheer scale of the
disaster, the overwhelming human toll, and the
imminence of a severe Himalayan winter season warranted                More Results
immediate national, international, civil society, and private
sector response.

Approach
The Bank played a key role in supporting the Government of
                                                                        460,000
                                                                        seismic-resistant homes
Pakistan in dealing with the immediate consequences of the              reconstructed
disaster, as well as longer-term reconstruction and
rehabilitation efforts. The design of the Bank’s overall
approach was guided by its experience with previous
earthquake emergency operations in Iran, India, and Turkey.
The International Development Association (IDA) provided
US$400 million through the Earthquake Emergency Recovery
                                                                        280,000
                                                                             vulnerable families received
Credit to support the government’s earthquake reconstruction                 cash grants
program, which included, among other things housing
reconstruction, livelihood support, capacity building, and
import financing.
                                                                             MORE INFORMATION
At the outset, the project adopted a flexible approach:
whereas policy and strategy formulation were centralized,                      Project Documents
implementation, monitoring, and reporting mechanisms were                      Earthquake Reconstruction and
decentralized. The functioning of a robust and                                 Rehabilitation Authority
comprehensive reporting, monitoring and evaluation system,                     Pakistan Blog Entries
developed jointly by the Bank and the Earthquake
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Authority (ERRA), ensured                    Country Website
that substantial results were achieved, particularly in the                    Connect with us on Facebook
critical areas of housing reconstruction, and livelihoods
                                                                               Talk to us on Twitter
support. Furthermore, by implementing many of the recovery
measures through government departments, the project
helped strengthen key institutions and the building of
capacities in disaster risk reduction across a number of
implementing agencies.

Results
By the time the project was brought to a closure in 2010, the project had achieved notable
successes:
      The Earthquake Emergency Recovery Project financed 15 percent of the government’s US$1.5-billion
      Rural Housing Reconstruction Programme (RHRP), which was a homeowner-driven design initiative. It
      also supported capacity building at the community level for seismic-resistant reconstruction. From 2006
      to 2010, over 430,000 seismic-resistant houses had been reconstructed (out of which 80,000 were
      financed from the Project), which represented 96 percent of total housing reconstruction ;

      The project provided monthly cash grants to more than 280,000 vulnerable families from 2006 to 2007, of
      which 27% were female-headed households;

      It also provided US$85 million financing to the government to partially finance the imports of items
      required for immediate relief, reconstruction and rehabilitation activities. This component received
      additional financing of US$300 million following the unprecedented floods across Pakistan in 2010;

      Finally, the project focused on institutional capacity building as well as disaster risk management, with
      funds provided to the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to undertake various activities of
      this kind. These included the establishment of a National Emergency Operations Center, piloting of
      Community Based Disaster Risk Management (CBDRM) program in Muzaffarabad and Mansehra
      districts, development of a National Disaster Response Plan, and formulation of standard operating
      procedures.


Voices


     I now live in a new seismic resistant home without the fear of
   losing my grandchildren to an earthquake. It is a dream which
   has come true.  
                                            — Rahmat Jan, Earthquake Victim


Bank Contribution
The Earthquake Emergency Recovery Project initially provided US$400 million through IDA
funding, of which US$220 million was earmarked for the housing reconstruction component.
The livelihoods support and import financing components were allocated US$85 million each
and US$10 million was assigned to the capacity building component. Following the floods of
2010, an additional US$300 million was provided to the import financing component.
Partners
While there were no co-financers for this project, a number of development partners, donor
organizations, non-governmental organizations, and civil society organizations were
stakeholders in the government-led Rural Housing Reconstruction Program.

Toward the Future
The reconstruction effort helped establish a culture of seismic-resistant construction in the
project beneficiary areas and the impact rippled more broadly outside these areas through
training, public awareness campaigns, and social mobilization activities backed by project
financing. A government impact survey conducted in 2009 found that 72 percent of housing
reconstruction beyond the government’s Rural Housing Reconstruction Program followed the
same seismic-resistant housing model that was developed for the project.

The Bank project also supported efforts to develop a strategic approach to disaster risk
management in Pakistan, based on risk identification, risk mitigation and reduction, capacity
building, and preparedness.
