Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2458a-ES
FILE C0Pv
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
EL SALVADOR
May 21, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit:   Col6n (¢)
US$ 1.00    =    ¢   2.50
¢   1.00    =    US$ 0.40
Weights and Measures
1 kilometer (km.)   =   0.62  miles
1 hectare (ha.)      =   2.47  acres
1 manzana (mz.)           0.699 ha. = 1.72 acres
1 liter (1.)         =   0.26  gallons
Fiscal Year
January 1  -  December 31
School Year
February 1 - October 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EL SALVADOR
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.   SOCIOECONOMIC FACTORS RELATED TO EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT         1
II.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR ........      ............................   2
Education Plans and Development Strategy .... .......   2
Structure and Administration of the
Education System .......      ..........................   3
Basic Education ...............,                         3
Problems and Needs ......      ......................   3
Government Objectives and Strategy ....     ........  5
Teacher Training ........      ...........................   7
Higher Education ........      ...........................   9
Nonformal Education and Training ....       ............... 10
III.   EDUCATION FINANCE AND EXTERNAL AID .....       .................  11
IV.   BANK'S PRIOR ROLE IN EDUCATION AND TRAINING .............  12
V. THE PROJECT.13
Objectives and Composition .13
Elements of the Project .14
Rural Basic Education Nuclei .14
Teacher Training ..............................  17
Textbook and Teaching Material Production .18
San Miguel Technological Institute .19
School Administration and Supervision .20
Curriculum Development .21
Technical Assistance .21
VI.   COST OF THE PROJECT ...................................... 22
Base Costs ..........................                   22
Contingency Allowances ........................... 23
Foreign Exchange Component .......................... 24
Financing Plan .......         ................... 24
Recurrent Costs .......        ................... 24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
El Salvador in September/October 1978. The mission comprised Messrs. A. Freire
(Senior Educator), A. Alberti (Technical Educator), S. Apergis (Economist,
Consultant), T. van Tienhoven (Engineer, Consultant) and E. Gurule (Teaching
Materials Specialist, Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VII.   IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS .........................  24
Project Administration  .... ...........O....-.... , .0 24
Project Implementation and Monitoring ............. .... 25
Professional and Technical Services ......   ........... 25
Project Implementation Fund    ..................*.* 25
Sites ..............      ........................ 26
Procurement .. .... ...... ..................... .. 26
Maintenance ......................................... 26
Disbursements .........................  27_
VIII.   BENEFITS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, AND EVALUATION ........ 27
Benefits ..................................... .......     27
Risks and Uncertainties . ....    .................   ........... 27
Evaluation ........... o      ................................... 28
IX.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .28
ANNEX 1    Supporting Tables and Charts
TABLES
T-1    Comparative Education Indicators
T-2    Enrollment by Level and Controlling Authority
T-3    School Age Population and Enrollment ('000) and Ratio
by Level and Area
T-4    Basic Education, Cycles I and II (Grades 1-6), Teachers by Shift
T-5    Primary School Teachers:  Needs, Demand and Supply
T-6    Public and Private Expenditures in Education, Actual and Projected
T-7    Recurrent Expenditures in Formal Public Education, by Level
T-8    Recurrent Cost per Student, by Level, in Public Education
T-9    List of Nuclei and Primary Schools Included in the Project
T-10  Technical Assistance and Fellowships
T-11   Summary of Project Base Cost
T-12   Contingency Allowances
T-13   Financing Breakdown, by Year and Category of Expenditure
T-14   Implementation Schedule
T-15   Disbursement Schedule
CHARTS
C-1    Structure of the Formal Education System
C-2    Organization of the Ministry of Education
C-3    Primary Education Student Flow
C-4    Enrollment in Public and Private Institutes
ANNEX 2     Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP



EL SALVADOR
BASIC DATA
1977
Area                                                         20,900 km
Population
-  in towns with more than 20,000                          0.96 million (23%)
-  in small towns                                          0.62 million (15%)
-  rural                                                   2.54 million (62%)
Total                                                      4.12 milli2n (100%)
Density                                                    197 per km  of arable land
Growth                                                     3% per annum
GNP (at market prices)                                       US$2,350 million
GNP per capita (Bank estimate)                             US$570
Annual growth of GNP in real terms (1960-1975)             5.2%
Literacy Rate                                                62%
Enrollment Ratios (including overage)
Basic Education, first & second cycles (grades 1-6)    88.4%
-  in urban areas                                         115.0%
-  in rural areas                                          70.3%
Basic Education, third cycle (grades 7-9)                  42.5%
-  in urban areas                                          94.8%
-  in rural areas                                           7.0%
Secondary Education (grades 10-12)                         22.8%
Higher Education                                            7.0%
Education Finance
Share of Education in Central Government Budget            27.2%
Education Expenditures as Proportion of GDP
-  public                                                   4.0%
-  private                                                  0.3%
4.3%






- 1 -
I. SOCIOECONOMIC FACTORS RELATED TO EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
1.01      El Salva or is one of the most densely populated countries (about
200 inhabitants/km ), with a high population growth rate (3% per annum).
As a consequence, the labor force has been increasing rapidly and by the end
of the next decade is expected to exceed two million. Indeed, if employment
opportunities improve, this figure will be significantly higher since persis-
tent unemployment and underemployment have created a large reservoir of poten-
tial workers who are at present discouraged from further search for job open-
ings. On the other hand, the country is characterized by a scarcity of natural
resources: land to be brought under cultivation is extremely limited; very
few mineral resources have been identified so far; and tourist attractions are
limited. As a result, the country's growing labor force is clearly identified
as its most important economic resource, on which its development strategy and
its investment policies must rest.
1.02      The country's conventional economic policies (mainly, import substi-
tution and improvement in agricultural productivity) have produced so far slow
economic growth (the annual growth rate of GDP per capita between 1968 and 1978
was about 1.8%). In order to make up for this shortcoming, the Salvadorian
Government is encouraging the extensive use of the country's abundant human
resources by means of imports of raw materials for domestic processing. This
strategy implies rapid specialization in export-oriented industrial activities
and the need for large investment in human resource formation to improve
productivity of the labor force. Otherwise, prospective entrepreneurs, local
as well as foreign, will find it unprofitable to make investment decisions on
the basis of the currently available low productivity workers despite their
low wages. The need for investment in human resources goes beyond the export-
oriented industrial branches. It applies to other related industries, infra-
structure and services (producers of basic material inputs, transportation,
communication, business services, etc.) whose cost structure largely deter-
mines the profitability of an industrial establishment.
1.03      Basic education comes high on the list for public investment in
human resources because of the need to prepare new entrants into the labor
force who should, through formal instruction at an early age, acquire the
proper attitudes for employment in a modern environment. The case for imme-
diate and extensive investment in basic education is strong, especially in
rural areas. First, inadequate investment in education in the past and rapid
population growth have made a large proportion of the labor force "illiterate"
(about 51% in rural areas). Second, the professed objective of reducing the
degree of inequality in opportunities available to each individual dictates
the necessity of large public investment in education in rural areas. Acknowl-
edging that the effectiveness of a manpower training effort is constrained by
the low level of education of the participants, both the 1973-77 and 1978-82
education plans give first priority to rural basic education linked to rural
development needs. Targets for 1985 call for providing accelerated basic
education to all overage students, raising the enrollment ratio of rural
children age 7-15 to 73%, compared with 52% in 1977.



-2-
1.04      Another priority area of human resources development is formal
technical education to produce technicians, which has been one of the bottle-
necks in carrying out the new export-oriented development strategy. The role
of nonformal training and education, already acknowledged by the government
and various international organizations including the World Bank (Loan 1571-
ES, Industrial and Agricultural Training Project), is especially critical for
a rapid upgrading of the existing labor force and for retraining workers in
accordance with changing demand patterns. Finally, higher education must be
geared to providing an expanding number of professional and managerial person-
nel to fill high level positions. This requirement should be met by improving
the currently very low efficiency of the university education system, i.e., it
should increase the number of graduates without expanding physical facilities.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Education Plans and Development Strategy
2.01      Since the government first undertook a systematic approach to plan-
ning the development of its education and training sector in the 1960s, it
has come a long way toward strengthening the educational infrastructure and
modernizing the system. The First Education Development Plan (1968-72) had
ambitious aims: (a) restructuring of the education system to provide nine
years of basic education free of charge for every child and diversified pro-
grams rather than the traditional academic courses for secondary students;
(b) strengthening education administration and supervision; (c) providing free
or low cost learning materials and introducing instructional television; (d)
rationalizing the teacher training system; and (e) increasing educational
opportunities for the rural population. Implementation of this Plan was a
limited success: although basic education expanded rapidly (6% p.a.), it
covered only 65% of the relevant age group (7-15 years) in 1972, and the
imbalance between urban and rural areas with respect to educational oppor-
tunities was not corrected. However, with the help of the first Bank-financed
education project (Loan 609-ES, dated June 4, 1965), secondary education was
expanded and improved, and its curriculum modified to provide a more voca-
tional orientation, facilitating access to both the labor market and further
studies. Also, teacher training was consolidated and an intensive program of
in-service teacher training implemented. Moreover, basic infrastructure for
formal education was established with the regionalization of school supervi-
sion, the introduction of instructional television in grades 7-9, and the
establishment in the Ministry of Education of the Technical and Pedagogic
Studies Department, the Textbook Production Workshop and the Office of Plan-
ning and Coordination.
2.02      The Second Education Development Plan (1973-77) supported continua-
tion of the reform measures introduced under the First Plan and initiated
some new programs to meet the needs of the productive sectors and improve
the quality and efficiency of the formal education system. Extension of
basic education opportunities in rural areas was accelerated through the
construction of new schools and more efficient utilization of existing
ones by implementation of the double-shift system. Furthermore, conversion
of rural schools into community learning centers was initiated for use after



- 3 -
regular school hours, for nonformal training programs for the rural population
and accelerated basic education courses for overage students. In addition,
the Second Plan introduced practical subjects into basic education as part of
an overall curricula revision, and the diversification of secondary education
to meet the technical manpower requirements of the economy was completed.
2.03      A Third Education Development Plan (1978-82) has been prepared
on the basis of a comprehensive USAID-assisted sector study. The main objec-
tives of the new plan are to: (a) further strengthen the education system,
with particular regard to redressing inequities between urban and rural areas
in access to basic education and improving its quality, efficiency and rele-
vance; (b) fill the gaps in post secondary technological education; and (c)
continue expanding nonformal education and training programs for out-of-school
youths and adults. The proposed project would assist the government in meeting
these objectives, especially the first two. The USAID will also be assisting
the government in expansion of rural basic education and pre-service training
of teachers through a recent loan (signed March 21, 1979) for the amount of
US$4.4 million; the project under this loan was designed in close coordination
with the Bank and would complement the efforts under the proposed project.
Structure and Administration of the Education System
2.04      The formal education system comprises one year of kindergarten,
nine years of basic education, three years of secondary education, and higher
education with courses of two to six years. Basic education starts at age
seven and is organized in three cycles of three years each. The first two
cycles, comprising grades 1-6, are equivalent to primary education, while the
third cycle, grades 7-9, is equivalent to lower secondary level. Secondary
education (grades 10-12) is diversified and prepares for the Bachillerato
diploma in any of the following specialized courses: academic, business admin-
istration, home economics, industrial, vocational arts, agriculture, hotel-
catering and tourism, navigation and fishery, health, and teacher training.
Higher education is offered by two universities, one national and one private,
and by various post secondary institutions (Chart C-1).
2.05      The Ministry of Education is responsible for administering all
levels of education except universities. In an effort to make the education
system more effective, its central administration, planning and supervision
were reorganized, with USAID assistance, in the early 1970s. However,
due to the deteriorating salaries, an unprecedented increase in unqualified
personnel, and lack of delineation of responsibilities among the departments
of the Ministry, some departments have become virtually inoperative. Aware
of this, the government has requested UNDP assistance to evaluate the adminis-
trative structure of the Ministry of Education, with special attention to the
Directorate of Educational Architecture (DAE), and to recommend improvements;
the Bank has supported this request and also indicated to UNDP its special
interest. Key departments or directorates within the Ministry of Education
are shown in Chart C-2.
Basic Education
2.06      Problems and Needs.  With the implementation of the education reform
(Education Development Plan 1968-72), free compulsory basic education was



- 4 -
extended from six years of schooling to nine. As a consequence, third cycle
schools (grades 7-9) are now administered by the Department of Basic Education
instead of by the Department of Secondary Education. It is, however, too early
yet for this change to make any significant impact on raising the education
level of the population of El Salvador. Basic education (grades 1-9) enroll-
ment totaled 823,000 in 1977 (75% of the 7-15 age group). Enrollments in the
first two cycles (grades 1-6) and the third cycle (grades 7-9) were 690,000 and
133,000, respectively, representing 88.4% and 42.5% of the relevant age groups.
In the last five years, enrollments have increased by 3.3% per annum in the
first two cycles and 7.7% in the third cycle and can be expected to grow at
about the same rates during the period 1979-85 (Tables T-1 and T-2), provided
that adequate teaching facilities are made available. By 1985 about 4,000
additional classrooms in rural areas will be necessary if the government's
target of providing basic education to about 580,000 rural children (73% of
the 7-15 age group) is to be met. The table below shows the additional student
places and classrooms needed during 1977-85, taking into consideration that the
double-shift system would be implemented in about 54% of the schools by 1985,
compared with 19% in 1977.
-----------------------(All figures '000)--------------------------
1977-85
1977                      1985                  Additional
T.                        %        Student
Enrollment  Age Group  Enrollment   Age Group   Places   Classrooms
Grades 1-6       690.0       88.4         894.7         92.0       137.2         3.4
Rural            329.6       70.3         491.5         89.0       108.5         2.7
Urban            360.4      115.4         403.2         96.0        28.7         0.7
Grades 7-9       133.0       42.5         241.0         62.0        72.4         1.8
Rural             15.2        8.0           87.0        37.3        48.1         1.2
Urban            117.8       94.2         154.0         99.0        24.3         0.6
Grades 1-9       823.0       75.0       1,135.7         83.0       209.6         5.2
Rural            344.8       52.0         578.5         73.0       156.6         3.9
Urban            478.2      109.0         557.2         96.0        53.0         1.3
2.07      Although there is no discrimination either by region or by level
of education, there are extreme disparities in access and efficiency between
urban and rural areas (Chart C-4). In 1977 urban enrollment ratios for the
7-12 and 13-15 age groups were equivalent to 115% /1 and 94%, respectively,
compared with 70% and 8% in rural areas, and the most favored rural area was
equipped with school buildings to provide basic education (grades 1-9) to only
1/   This figure is higher than 100% because of the enrollment of overage
students.



-5 -
52% of the age group (70% of the first two cycles and 8% of the third). More-
over, the majority of the school buildings--mainly abandoned private houses -
were, and continue to be, either unsuitable or in such poor condition as to
be unsafe.
2.08      Early dropout from the first six grades of basic education is a
serious problem, particularly in rural areas. Only 19% of first grade entrants
complete the full six years in rural areas, compared with 47% in urban areas
(Chart C-3). The main reasons for the high dropout are (a) shortage of class-
rooms, mainly in rural areas; (b) the large number of schools offering fewer
than six grades, as well as the long distance children in rural areas need to
walk; (c) lack of properly prepared supervisors, directors and teachers for
rural schools (even graduate teachers have not been trained to work in rural
areas); and (d) lack of teaching materials, including basic textbooks.
2.09      The more positive result of government efforts, so far, has been
the basic education curriculum reform introduced in 1971. The USAID Education
Sector Analysis shows that there has been substantial improvement in both
quality and relevance. Judging from the high overall scores in the National
Achievement Examinations for the first two cycles and third cycle of basic
education in both urban and rural areas, it seems that learning is satis-
factory in both. Also, students completing basic education find jobs with
salaries higher (double or triple) than those of persons with lesser school-
ing. There are also indications that education, mainly in rural areas and
in particular the inclusion of population education in the curriculum, can
produce a positive impact on population growth. For 1,000 women of fertile
age with (a) 0-3 years of schooling, there are 230 births; (b) 4-6 years, 175
births; (c) some secondary education, 110 births. It appears that neither
employment status nor rural residence affects fertility as much as education.
2.10      Government Objectives and Strategy.  Basic education is conceived
as the common preparatory basis for further learning and productive life.
Curricula revisions, introduced under the reform, have led to substantial
improvements in both quality and relevance (para. 2.09). Further improvements
in the curriculum can be expected when the revision of the curriculum is
completed in the light of recommendations resulting from the reform evalua-
tion made by the Ministry of Education in early 1978.
2.11      The government's plans are to expand and improve basic education
further through implementation of its strategic program "Expansion and Improve-
ment of Rural Basic Education," included in the Third Education Development
Plan (1978-82). The ongoing Second Education Project (Loan 1007-ES, dated
June 14, 1974) and the proposed education project would assist in implementing
this program. The plan includes the construction, in the most disadvantaged
rural areas, of new schools and the replacement, with expansion, of existing
schools (about 4,000 additional classrooms), so that by 1985 basic education
can be offered to about 89% (490,000 children) and 37% (87,000 children),
compared with 70% and 8% in 1977, of the corresponding age group of rural
population in the first two cycles and the third cycle, respectively (Table
T-3). In order to make available more student places and employ teachers



-6-
more efficiently, the government will expand implementation of the double-shift
system, thereby increasing the number of half day students (a strategy that has
reduced dropout and repetition rates by making additional places available in
higher grades while maintaining the same performance level as full day students
in national achievement examinations) (Table T-4). It will also expand further
the offering of nonformal education courses after regular school hours to
out-of-school youths and adults. A school construction program has been pre-
pared on the basis of the results of a school mapping program carried out
recently with assistance provided by the Bank's project preparation mission.
2.12      The government will also implement a revised school nuclearization
system on a more systematic basis. Since 1976 the government has been experi-
menting with nuclearization 1/ of rural schools, as an approach to organizing
and supervising rural education so as to provide children with maximum access
to basic education, improve efficiency and quality of education, and integrate
the schools into the community. The 34 nuclei already established throughout
El Salvador are functioning with mixed success because: (a) they were designed
on the assumption that large schools located at a central point would attract
children from surrounding communities, which has not happened because of the
long distance children have to walk and the reluctance of teachers to live out-
side a town or community; (b) appropriate training was not provided to teachers
and directors, and (c) administrative procedures were not clearly defined.
The government is now developing policies to correct these deficiencies and
plans to revise the present regulations governing the organization and super-
vision of basic education, as the basis for a more efficient nuclearization
system to be implemented under the proposed education project. Under this new
plan each nucleus would serve 1,000-2,000 students, with 15 to 30 teachers on
a double-shift basis. Nuclei schools would be located in each community and
would vary in size from one classroom to five or six. A "central" six or nine
grade school would be linked to a number of neighboring schools offering either
six grades ("subcentral" schools) or four grades ("associated" schools). The
central school would offer formal primary education to school age children,
accelerated primary education (three years of schooling equivalent to the six
years of the formal system) to overage students, and nonformal training courses
(agriculture, health, community development, home economics, etc.,) to out-of-
school youths and adults. The subcentral schools would provide the full six
grades of primary education to communities 10 to 15 kilometers distant from
central schools; and associated schools would provide the first four grades
of primary education of small communities located within three kilometers of a
central or subcentral school where students might attend the fifth and sixth
grades. Each central school would have, in addition to classrooms, facilities
for teaching science and practical subjects, a school library, and an adminis-
tration area; subcentral and associated schools would have an administration
and a storage area; and all would have covered areas for community activities
and a student food program. The double-shift system in nuclei schools, besides
ensuring maximum utilization of physical space, would offer financial incen-
tives to rural teachers and thus would help assure the availability of suffi-
cient competent teachers for rural schools. Multigrade teaching techniques
1/   A school location and administration system of linking schools at the
local level.



would also be widely used.  While the double shift system and multigrade
teaching would make more efficient use of teachers, it should be noted that
student/teacher ratios would actually decrease, with the number of pupils
per teacher dropping from 40-45 to about 35 per shift. Some central school
teachers would receive specialized training in practical subjects such as agri-
culture, health, home economics, etc., and would assist in organizing community
activities. The director of the central school would have no teaching respon-
sibilities, but would supervise teaching in the nucleus and serve as a liaison
between the community and the nonformal and in-service teacher training insti-
tutions utilizing school facilities. This improved nuclearization system would
be implemented first in rural areas identified by the June 1978 school mapping
survey as having the most acute need to expand and improve education opportu-
nities.
2.13      The present rural students are not provided with textbooks except
a few remaining from out-of-date editions published under a regional text-
books program. Urban children are more favored in this regard since their
parents can afford the purchase of expensive textbooks. Some of these are
imported, mainly from Mexico, and they do not reflect the children's cultural
background. The Ministry of Education, aware of the need to provide students
of basic education with textbooks, in 1975 established in its Department of
Technical-Pedagogic Services a specialized Textbooks Division called "Plana-
libre" in charge of preparing and implementing a plan for the production of
textbooks. During the past three years Unesco, OAS and the Government of
Venezuela have provided technical assistance in the production, distribution,
evaluation and costing of textbooks. A group of 12 local staff who were
trained at the Pedagogical Center in Macaro, Venezuela, has been closely
involved. The continuation and further expansion of these limited efforts
would be undertaken under the proposed project.
Teacher Training
2.14      As part of the 1967 Education Reform, the government consolidated
all seven public primary teacher training schools into one institution and
phased out the 46 private teacher training schools. The one remaining public
school, Ciudad Normal, was developed into a broad teacher training institution,
responsible for training teachers for basic and secondary education. Also,
upgrading courses are provided for teachers of the first and second cycles
as well as short courses for third cycle teachers, school directors and super-
visors. There are no separate programs for urban and rural teachers, but all
teachers are appointed to rural schools for at least the first three to four
years of their career. In view of the oversupply, no basic education teachers
were trained from 1968 to 1971, except for physical education teachers. In
1972 the training was resumed in selected subjects (mathematics, natural
sciences, industrial arts), and teacher training courses were introduced as
a specialized program in a public secondary school in San Miguel. Also, the
expansion of Ciudad Normal from 1,300 to 1,800 student places through the
provision of additional classrooms and laboratories was supported under the
ongoing Bank-financed Second Education Project.



- 8 -
2.15      In 1977 the total enrollment in teacher training courses was 1,069,
of which about 200 were in private institutions. Training of teachers for
the first two cycles of basic education (grades 1-6) is offered under three
programs: (a) a three year course for students who have completed grade nine
of basic education; (b) a one year training course with one year of supervised
teaching in rural schools and three months of additional training, for students
who have completed grade 11 of secondary education; and (c) a summer training
course with three years of supervised, paid (75% of regular teacher's salary)
teaching in rural schools and brief periodic evaluation and guidance, for
students who have already completed secondary education (grade 12). Graduates
from any of these plans receive equivalent teaching certificates. Program (c)
was established in 1974 as an emergency, experimental plan; on the basis of
satisfactory results in linking new teachers with rural communities and schools,
the government is giving priority to making it permanent. Teachers for the
third cycle of basic education (grades 7-9) are trained at Ciudad Normal, under
two types of programs: (a) a two year course for graduate primary teachers with
no teaching experience in the third cycle; and (b) four summer courses for
graduate primary teachers who are teaching in the third cycle. Teachers for
secondary education are selected from graduates of the previous Higher School
of Education (now part of Ciudad Normal), university graduates, and upgraded
primary school teachers. Teachers for technical subjects are recruited from
graduates of secondary industrial schools who attend upgrading courses of two
months' duration. The government's recent policy, however, is to recruit only
graduates of post secondary institutions who will receive training at Ciudad
Normal or abroad.
2.16      At this time, taking into consideration that many teachers will leave
the service under recently promulgated favorable retirement regulations, prior-
ity in teacher training should be placed on expanding the pre-service teacher
training program in order to supply the demand for teachers to cope with the
projected enrollment in future years. Projections for the 1978-85 years indi-
cate that the country will need by 1985 about 16,600 teachers for the first
and second cycles of basic education (Table T-4). This estimate is based on
the assumption that the proportion of teachers working two shifts will increase
from 19% in 1977 to 54% in 1985 (Table T-4), which is reasonable in view of the
large expansion of enrollments in rural areas, where most teachers welcome this
arrangement in view of the attractive additional pay (60%). On this basis the
annual need for newly trained teachers would be about 700, to be trained mainly
in Ciudad Normal (Table T-5). In addition, attention should be paid to provid-
ing: (a) an in-service teacher training program to upgrade unqualified teachers
as well as the professional skills of those who have graduated from unsatisfac-
tory programs or have not had refresher courses five years or more after
graduation; and (b) training of teachers in multigrade teaching techniques,
which will be applied in the majority of rural primary schools. The ongoing
Second Education Project is assisting the government in meeting some of these
needs (extension of Ciudad Normal, expansion of in-service teacher training
programs, and improvement of science teaching), and the proposed project would
reinforce these efforts.



-9-
Higher Education
2.17      Higher education is offered by the National University, the private
Catholic University, and by specialized post secondary institutions under the
Ministry of Education. The nonuniversity higher education institutions offer
courses mainly of two years' duration. In 1977 enrollment in post secondary
institutions was about 30,000 (7% of the 19-24 age group), of which 92% was
in university courses. The 8%, or 2,300 students in nonuniversity post second-
ary education, were mainly attending the Central American Technological Insti-
tute (1,244 - 54%), the Technological Institute of San Salvador (286 - 13%),
the School of Nursing (268 - 12%) and the School of Agriculture (223 - 10%).
Efficiency of universities is low, with dropout and repeater rates as high
as 78%, while in nonuniversity institutions they are less than 30%. In 1975
graduates from nonuniversity institutes totaled 383, while university graduates
were estimated at fewer than 300.
2.18      The government, in accordance with the priorities established
in the Economic Development Plan 1978-82, intends to expand the facilities
and enrollments of technical education at the post secondary level. Specif-
ically, it proposes the establishment of two new regional technical institutes
(in Santa Ana and San Miguel) and the expansion of one (San Salvador), with a
total capacity of 800 student places, to provide nine study programs of two
years' duration that would produce a total of about 400 graduates per year.
Currently there is strong pressure on the part of high school graduates to
enter existing technological institutes. For example, in 1978 there were 2,360
applications for admission into the Central American Technological Institute
(ITCA) but only 600 available places, and 1,420 applications for admission into
San Salvador Technical Institute (ITESS) but only 185 available places. There
is a clear sign of students' expectations that study in technological insti-
tutes offers good opportunities for well paid jobs. There are indications that
graduates from existing institutions do indeed find jobs corresponding to their
skills. Thus a follow-up study of 82 ITESS graduates in 1977 shows that 80%
of them are employed in jobs corresponding to their skills. Also, ITCA sources
estimate that 95% of their graduates work in jobs corresponding to their
obtained skills.
2.19      There do not exist at present systematic studies of future demand
for skilled workers in El Salvador. The Bank-financed Industrial and Agricul-
tural Training Project (Loan No. 1571, dated June 5, 1978) provides for a
periodic training needs survey. However, the results of this study are not
expected to become available before the middle of 1980. Notwithstanding the
lack of systematic manpower studies, it is clear from fragmentary or indirect
but consistent information that during the 1978-1990 period about 700 to 900
technicians would be needed. Interviews with the Association of Salvadorian
Industrialists also revealed a strong demand for qualified technicians at the
post secondary level. More specifically, the industrialists' evaluation of
priority occupations points to training of production technicians for agro-
industry, maintenance and quality control personnel, and production supervisors.
As the following table indicates, the participation of professional, technical
and related personnel in employment and the labor force has been growing
rather rapidly in the period 1961-75.



- 10 -
Professional         % of
Total              and             Total
Year                      Employment          Related         Employment
1961 (Census)               766,299            19,741             2.57
1971 (Census)             1,028,932            39,424             3.83
1975 (Manpower Survey)   1,289,841 /1          54,650 /1          4.24
/1   Labor force estimates
2.20      Based on the historical pattern of economic change and conclusions
resulting from the above considerations, there seems to be scope for moderate
expansion of post secondary nonuniversity education since demand for techni-
cians will certainly exceed supply from existing institutions over the next
decade. However, neither the level of this excess demand nor its composition
by occupation and study program can be fixed very accurately. Therefore, the
proposed project would support the establishment of only modest facilities
(with provision, however, for expansion) and in subject areas that appear to
be of immediate priority. In addition, the new facilities would help counter-
act the exclusive concentration of post secondary technological education in
the San Salvador area and contribute to supplying technical skills to the San
Miguel area, which is being developed as one of the industrial centers in
accordance with government plans.
Nonformal Education and Training
2.21      Nonformal basic education is mainly provided by the Ministry of
Education through evening and accelerated courses, equivalent to formal
education programs (participants represent 6% of total enrollment in formal
basic education) and literacy training. The accelerated programs for out-
of-school youths and adults offering basic education are flexible courses
with ITV lessons, written materials and regional counseling officers replac-
ing the regular classroom teacher. Such courses are now being implemented
only for the equivalent of the third cycle of basic education (grades 7-9).
Similar courses for the lower cycle are likely to be offered in the near
future.
2.22      Nonformal, work-oriented training programs are being provided by
several public and private agencies. In 1976 the Ministry of Agriculture
established the National System of Agricultural Training (CENCAP) to coor-
dinate and implement nonformal agricultural training and provide modern tech-
nology to farmers. The Ministries of Education and Labor administer some
programs for training skilled and semiskilled workers for industrial and
artisan occupations; but they are not systematic and they lack adequate
financing, personnel and physical facilities. The government is implementing,
with Bank assistance (Loan 1571-ES, dated June 5, 1978), the establishment of
a nationwide infrastructure of nonformal agricultural and industrial training



- 11 -
to meet the pressing requirements for technical manpower and increase the
productivity and income of small and medium size farmers, agricultural workers,
skilled and semiskilled industrial workers, and their supervisors.
III. EDUCATION FINANCE AND EXTERNAL AID
3.01      Expenditures for education in 1977 amounted to 0308 million, or
4.3% of GDP. Of this amount, ¢279 million, or 90%, was contributed by the
central government and the balance by the private sector (Table T-6). It is
important to note the increasing socialization of educational services: in
1971 the government's participation in education expenditure was 80%, while
the share of the private sector was 20%, or double its 1977 share. In order
to finance education outlay, the government devoted 27% of budget revenues.
This is a clear sign of the high priority the government assigns to education,
especially if it is taken into account that budget revenues in 1977 were
abnormally swollen as a result of high coffee prices.
3.02      By far the greatest part of public expenditures for education is
financed from domestic sources of revenue. In 1977 foreign assistance to
education in the form of loans and grants from the most important international
organizations and agencies (IBRD, IDB, USAID) amounted to ¢4.2 million, i.e.,
10% of total capital expenditure for education. It should be noted, however,
that the importance of foreign assistance is normally greater than'this figure
indicates: in addition to introducing improved standards of school building
and forms of school organization in a traditional environment, external assis-
tance has helped meet a part of capital investment requirements during periods
of fiscal tightness such as the one El Salvador faces at present.
3.03      The government's efforts in the education sector are concentrated
in basic education (grades 1-9) and higher education (Table T-7). Of public
recurrent expenditures for education in 1977, 64% was directed to basic educa-
tion and 27% to higher education; a bare 9% was devoted to preprimary and
secondary grades (10-12) education, and the government relied on parents to
finance their children's education for covering more than half the recurrent
cost of secondary education. The reasons for this particular distribution of
expenditures differ in each case: the emphasis on primary education is mostly
due to the government's commitment to offer basic education free of charge
to the entire school age population, in both rural and urban areas. From a
financial point of view the undertaking has proved very demanding because of
the rapid growth of the population, and this objective has been only partly
achieved. On the other hand, the large share of expenditure for higher
education is due in part to the extremely low promotion rate of university
students and in part to the high cost per student of higher education, both
university and nonuniversity: in 1976 the recurrent cost per student in the
first two cycles of basic education was ¢134, in the third cycle of basic
education ¢153, in secondary education ¢347, in nonuniversity higher educa-
tion 02,822, and in universities ¢1,394 (Table T-8). The main reason for
the relatively high unit cost in nonuniversity education was the small size



- 12 -
of the institutions and the low student/teacher ratio--a situation now chang-
ing as a consequence of the rapid increase of students at this level. The low
efficiency of universities is partly due to the secure source of revenues. By
law, 2.5% of the government's general revenues is supposed to be transferred to
universities; in fact, the sum transferred exceeds 2.5%, and only nominal
tuition and fees are charged to students. From the equity point of view, more
resources should be allocated to basic and secondary education, at the expense
of higher education.
3.04      While El Salvador's public education expenditures (current plus
capital) rose from 2.5% of GDP in 1963 to about 4.0% in 1977, the amount of
these expenditures as a percentage of GDP is expected to decrease somewhat
through 1985. On the basis of the enrollment targets set forth in the plan,
the government expects public expenditures in education to rise to 0327 million
(at 1977 prices) by 1985 (Table T-6). If the same unit costs were applied to
the private sector enrollments, total expenditure for education would amount
to 4363 million. The education program supported by the project should not
give rise to budgetary problems or serious conflicts with other expenditure
programs since central government revenues are expected to increase more
rapidly than GDP.
IV. BANK'S PRIOR ROLE IN EDUCATION AND TRAINING
4.01      The principal objective of Bank lending to the education sector in
El Salvador has been to support economic development and employment promotion
through the strengthening of the infrastructure of the formal education system.
Loan 609-ES (dated June 11, 1969) of US$4.9 million was designed to support
those aspects of the first education plan related to development of formal
secondary, agricultural, and technical education and to reorganization of
administration of the formal education system. The project was completed in
December 1974, after a one year delay. The project performance audit report
by the Bank of its results concluded that the project had made a significant
impact on the development of public secondary education in El Salvador, with
project schools accounting for 40% of all public secondary enrollments, and
instructional and learning materials developed under the project reaching 61%
of the public secondary school population (September 1975). Less successful
were the efficiency objectives of the project: (a) unit recurrent costs ex-
ceeded estimates because of poor utilization of some facilities, and (b) the
teacher training program was handicapped by underutilization of fellowships.
4.02      Loan 1007-ES (dated June 14, 1974) of US$17.0 million is supporting
the implementation of the second education plan in the field of rural formal
basic education and related teacher training, as well as an experimental non-
formal training scheme. This project has suffered implementation delays of
about 30 months because of high turnover of key staff of the implementing
agency, DAE, and the fact that DAE was given responsibility for a steadily
increasing number of activities outside the scope of the project, shortage
of construction materials, difficulties in site selection and acquisition,



- 13 -
and a cost escalation and undercosting of some project elements during
appraisal that have caused a substantial project cost overrun (43%). Most
of the problems delaying implementation of the Second Education Project have
now been overcome with the establishment of a new project management unit
with responsibility solely for the execution of the project and the con-
tracting of consultants to assist on site evaluation, design, construction
supervision and cost control aspects of the project. The scope and size of
the project have been modified and the government's project targets adjusted
to reflect funding availabilities; some 49 schools have been transferred to
the Fourth Education Project. The 280 completed project schools are well
staffed and are operating satisfactorily. Of the 234 remaining to be com-
pleted under the Second Education Project, 96 are under construction and
scheduled for completion by October 1979; bid documents are being prepared
for 60; sites are available for 37 and being selected and acquired for 41.
Construction of all schools is expected to be completed during the first half
of 1980. Given the advanced stage of implementation now achieved under the
Second Education Project, the project unit has already begun site selection
for the first group of schools to be included in the Fourth Education Project,
in order to allow construction to begin in the latter part of 1980. Thus, the
proposed loan would provide the financing necessary to help the government
maintain the recently acquired momentum necessary for meeting its objectives
for extending basic education opportunities to the rural areas.
4.03      Loan 1571-ES (dated June 5, 1978) of US$9.0 million is assisting the
government in establishing a nationwide institutional structure for nonformal
agricultural and industrial training to meet the requirements for technical
manpower and increase the productivity and income of small and medium farmers
as well as of skilled and unskilled agricultural and industrial workers, their
supervisors and managers, and small and medium entrepreneurs. The Ministries
of Agriculture and Labor are responsible for project implementation, which so
far has been carried out satisfactorily.
V. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Composition
5.01      The proposed education project would provide additional technical
and financial support to assist the government in meeting the educational
objectives and targets set forth in the second education development plan
(para. 2.02), which is being implemented with Bank assistance under the Second
Education Project (para. 4.01), and to help implement the high priority educa-
tional investment programs included in the third education development plan.
In particular, it would support efforts to (a) expand basic education and
training opportunities for children and adults in rural areas and for the
improvement of quality, efficiency, and school administration and supervision
through the establishment of an improved school nuclearization system; (b)
expand in-service training programs for basic education teachers and school
directors; (c) expand production of textbooks and teaching materials for basic
education; and (d) establish a new post secondary technological institute to



- 14 -
increase opportunities for training of technicians in selected priority spe-
cialties needed for industrial development.
5.02      The project is summarized below and followed by a detailed descrip-
tion. Specifically, it includes:
(a)  The construction, furnishing, and/or equipping of the following
educational institutions (see Table T-9 for further details);
Physical Facilities              Student Places
Extension & Equipment  New &
Total   New  Replacement  Only  Extension  Replacement  Total   Enrollment
50 Rural Basic  1/                                                          /2
Education Nuclei  356  54    191     111    30,500    16,420  46,920    90,000
Teacher Training  1    -       1       -      400      200      600      1,800
Textbooks and
Teaching Materials  1  1           -            -        -        -        -
San Miguel Techno-
logical Institute    1  1      -       -      240        -      240       240
I/
Nuclei: technical/administrative learning units, each including
a central school surrounded by subcentral and associated schools.
2/
In two shifts.
(b) school administration and supervison;
(c) curriculum development;
(d) technical assistance; and
(e) project administration.
Elements of the Project
5.03      Rural Basic Education Nuclei.  This project element would assist
the government in establishing 50 rural basic education nuclei (para. 2.12),
comprising 356 schools as follows: 54 new, 191 extensions (in most cases with
replacements as well), and 111 equipping only (Table T-9). Classrooms included
in the project total 1,169, of which 609 would be constructed, equipped and
furnished, and 560 would be equipped only. The 54 new schools would be estab-
lished in small rural communities where no education facilities exist at
present and would provide about 4,500 student places. For most of these



- 15 -
communities, the distance to the nearest school precludes attendance, so
that only a few school age children are actually enrolled. The majority
(49) of these new schools are associated schools (para. 5.05) and would
have two classrooms, offering, according to sound government strategy,
the first four grades of basic education on a double-shift basis. Access
to higher grades would be extended through the provision of subcentral and
central schools (para. 5.05). The 191 extensions to, and replacements of,
schools would create about 26,000 new student places and replace 16,420. Only
schools in poor condition, operating in public buildings or rented or abandoned
private houses, and estimated to have fewer than five years of usefulness have
been selected for replacement. Moreover, non-monetary benefits of this invest-
ment would be substantial, since new buildings would provide a greatly improved
environment for learning: they would be less crowded and would provide facili-
ties for more effective use of teaching/learning materials. In 1984, when
project facilities would be in full operation, about 90,000 students are
expected to be enrolled in project schools (about 19% of total rural enrollment
projected by 1984). In addition, some 12,500 adults and out-of-school youths
would receive literacy and accelerated basic education courses, as well as
nonformal training courses, at project central schools.
5.04      Selection of the 50 project nuclei was made primarily on the basis
of equity. Thus rural areas in the departments of Santa Ana, La Union,
Usulutan, Cabanas and La Libertad with greater need for school facilities
would benefit most from the project. Nuclei catchment areas, the number of
new, extension and replacement schools, the requirements for teachers and
teaching material, and the productive activities of the communities were
all determined from a school mapping exercise under the Second Education
Project.
5.05      Each nucleus would constitute a technical/administrative unit under
the supervision of a director, and would consist of a central school, sub-
central schools and associated schools.  Each central school would have, in
addition to classrooms, facilities for teaching science and practical subjects,
a school library, an administration and storage area, and a covered open space
including cooking facilities for implementation of a school meals program.
The 50 project central schools (nine new and 41 extensions), as well as 22
schools which would be equipped only, would offer six grades of basic educa-
tion and, in certain cases, up to grade 9 (third cycle of basic education) for
school age children; two or three years of accelerated primary education for
overage students; and literacy and nonformal training courses for out-of-school
youths and adults. Accelerated primary education and literacy courses would be
offered by specially trained teachers. Nonformal adult training courses would
be designed to improve agricultural productivity and the quality of life of
each community. Instructors for these nonformal courses would be volunteers
selected from the most capable local workers and primary school teachers
assigned to central schools, who would receive special training provided by
the national system of agricultural training (CENCAP) and the Vocational
Training Centers of the Ministry of Labor. In addition, central schools
would be made available to other training agencies of the government to carry
out specific programs for rural community development. The 126 subcentral
schools would provide the first two cycles of basic education (grades 1-6) to



- 16 -
communities located about 10 km from the central school and would have at
least three classrooms. The 158 associated schools would be one or two class-
room schools and would offer the first four grades of primary education to
small communities located within three km of a central or subcentral school
where students might receive further schooling. All project schools would be
used on a double-shift basis and multigrade teaching techniques would be used
extensively. The government gave assurances during negotiations that it will
(a) implement, in an experimental manner, the nuclearization system beginning
in the 1980 school year; and (b) no later than June 30, 1981, take the neces-
sary action, including the enactment of regulations, to organize and administer
the basic education school nuclearization system in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 2.12), at the latest by the school year beginning in 1982.
5.06      The director of each central school would be responsible for the
supervision of all schools within the nucleus and would also serve as liaison
between the community and the nonformal training agencies. Given the pivotal
role of a director and teachers for the effective functioning of schools in
each nucleus, the government gave assurances during negotiations that: (i) it
will select directors who are graduates of teacher training programs specific-
ally designed for this purpose and compensate them with salaries no lower than
those of the Directores de Escuelas Unificadas; (ii) project schools will be
staffed with qualified teachers who have successfully completed in-service
training courses on rural community development, including multigrade teaching
techniques, under a school nuclearization system; and (iii) a teacher using
multigrade teaching techniques will be assigned to groups of no more than
35 students, regardless of the number of grades he is teaching, if working
one shift, or no more than 70 students if working two shifts. Central schools
would be used during weekends by teachers of nuclei schools taking in-service
training courses using distance learning techniques (correspondence, television,
radio). For this purpose central school libraries would also be provided with
professional reference books.
5.07      The government strategy is to assign new graduates of teacher train-
ing programs to rural areas for the first three years and to have the majority
of, or all, rural teachers work two shifts and receive adequate monetary
compensation for the second shift. During the past five years this strategy
has attracted qualified teachers to rural areas. In addition, provision of
staff houses was believed to be also a factor in attracting qualified teachers,
so the Second Education Project included the construction of 30 staff houses
as an experiment, with the possibility of constructing an additional 150. The
government has, however, decided that it would instead prefer to help teachers
acquire their own houses in a community by means of a favorable loan program.
5.08      Project schools would be provided with basic teaching equipment,
tools for gardening and industrial arts workshops, and books (including text-
books, one for two students) for school libraries. Equipment would be either
imported, purchased locally, or produced by the Ministry of Education's Center
for the Production of Teaching/Learning Materials (CREA) and by Ciudad Normal
workshops. Rural teachers would be expected to design and build prototypes of
simple equipment items with the assistance of skilled personnel of both these
workshops.



- 17 -
5.09      Teacher Training.  The project would include the provision of (a)
additional furniture and equipment for the new facilities (science laboratory,
industrial arts workshop, two classrooms) being constructed at the National
Teacher Training School (Ciudad Normal Alberto Masferrer) under the Second
Education Project and construction of office and storage space for the in-
service teacher training program to be financed by the proposed project;
(b) materials, including paper, for the production of teaching material in
connection with the in-service teacher training program; (c) the salaries of
local qualified professional staff and technicians to implement the in-service
teacher training program financed under the proposed Bank loan at 80% the
first year, reduced by 20% each succeeding year, so that after the fourth year
the government would absorb such costs entirely (thus the average Bank financing
would be 50% of the total salary cost); and (d) related technical assistance
and fellowships for training abroad. This program is a continuation of that
included under the Second Education Project. Though the objectives remain the
same, the targets for both preservice and in-service teacher training have
been updated to ensure an adequate supply of trained teachers for basic
education and of instructors for industrial arts and home economics, as well
as nuclei directors. Multigrade teaching techniques will be added to the
curriculum.
5.10      The estimated 700 new primary school teachers required for 1985 are
expected to be supplied by Ciudad Normal (75%), San Miguel teacher training
courses (11%), and private teacher training schools (14%). In order to fill
its quota (about 550 graduates per year), Ciudad Normal would expand its suc-
cessful training program in which candidates, all high school graduates, would
undergo a strenuous program of three full school years of teaching in rural
schools under the supervision of nuclei directors, combined with short courses
at Ciudad Normal. Quality would be improved by reinforcing science and mathe-
matics teaching; establishing a student guidance service; involving trainees
in education research studies; improving supervised practice teaching in rural
schools; and designing a permanent follow-up and upgrading program to be
carried out by Ciudad Normal. Technical assistance for education research,
school administration, student guidance and multigrade teaching techniques
would be provided by the project.
5.11      The proposed project component would also assist the Ministry of
Education in implementing the innovative in-service teaching training program
designed under the Second Education Project, using distance learning tech-
niques. The program would be administered by Ciudad Normal. The target
group would be about 10,000 primary school teachers (70% of the total) with
six to 20 years of teaching experience. Teachers with fewer than six years'
experience are assumed to be applying the updated professional skills acquired
in preservice training, and it is expected that those with more than 20 years'
experience will shortly leave the profession. Participants in the upgrading
program would receive printed learning material, which would be supplemented
by lessons provided through ongoing Ministry of Education TV and radio programs.
Printed material would be provided on a modular basis. Each module (a booklet
of about 50 pages) would be self contained and would require about 16 hours of
study for the average teacher (reading, re-reading, and suggested practical
exercises). A teacher who studied an average of five hours per week would
complete about 15 modules per year, and would receive a promotion certificate
and an increase in salary upon completion of 60 modules in three of the



- 18 -
following four areas of study: (a) general pedagogy (general didactics,
psychology, school administration); (b) teaching techniques (methodology for
teaching primary school subjects, science laboratory techniques, group dynamics,
individualized education, multigrade teaching techniques); (c) complementary
training (sociology, principles of economics, statistics, ecology, English);
and (d) optional training (rural development, nonformal training programs,
adult education, agriculture, children's literature). Each area would consist
of about 20 modules. About 14 professionals, 40 technician/instructors and 20
support personnel would be responsible for curriculum development, module
design, preparation, production/distribution and evaluation/certification, as
well as coordination with the Directorate of ETV in the Ministry of Education.
The program's first year (1980) would be experimental and limited to two school
zones, and would serve 1,900 teachers in 363 schools. Based on evaluation of
this experimental phase, which would be undertaken by the Ciudad Normal with
technical assistance provided under the project, teaching material, delivery
system and costs would be revised if necessary before expanding the program
nationwide. Printed teaching material (modules) would be made available to
teacher trainees and students from either the existing office of the regional
primary school supervisors or from the nuclei central schools. The trainees
would be encouraged to hold free, informal weekend discussions for clarifica-
tion and better understanding of the learning unit at central nuclei schools
or the nearest "Casa de la Cultura," of which there are more than 60 throughout
the country. In addition, tutorial staff (supervisors, secondary school
teachers, educators in the Ministry of Education, staff of Ciudad Normal),
contracted on a part time basis, would assist trainees in mastering the course
content and would be responsible for conducting periodic examinations (tutorial
sessions), which take place mainly during summer vacation periods. A printed
sheet stating the time and place of tutorial sessions would be distributed,
together with printed learning material. Technical assistance in the form of
four man-years of specialist services in distance-learning techniques, module
development and program evaluation, as well as four man-years of fellowships
for training abroad, would also be provided under the proposed project.
Sources of technical assistance have been identified as Open University,
Great Britain; Universidad a Distancia, Spain; Universidad Nacional Abierta,
Venezuela; and Universidad Abierta, Mexico. Total operational cost for a
period of four years which the proposed project will help finance is estimated
at US$560,000, including the cost of about 200 modules to serve 2,500 teacher
trainees per year.
5.12      Ciudad Normal would also provide training courses for 50 nuclei
directors, 50 industrial arts and 50 home economics teachers required
for the central schools of the project's basic education nuclei.
5.13      Textbook and Teaching Material Production.  The project would
include: (a) the construction, furnishing and equipping of a building to
house the office and auxiliary spaces required for the Textbooks Division
of the Ministry of Education; (b) the printing of about one million basic
education textbooks and teaching guides; (c) preparation, distribution
and evaluation of new textbooks; (d) teacher training in the use of
textbooks; (e) fees for professional and technical staff; and (f) technical
assistance in the form of specialist services (two man-years) and fellow-
ships (six man-years). The project would help the government accomplish



- 19 -
its plan to improve teaching-learning effectiveness and equality of education
by providing textbooks to basic education students. An evaluation study (esti-
mated at about US$250,000) on the effect of school resources input (teachers,
textbooks and facilities) on student performance and achievement for selected
subject areas (e.g., language, mathematics) would be included under the proposed
project, and would be carried out by the Curriculum Department of the Ministry
of Education with the help of a technical assistance specialist.
5.14      The textbooks would include, for the first grade, two titles:
Natural Science-Mathematics and Social Science-Reading and Writing; and for
grades 2-6, four titles: Natural Sciences, Social Sciences, Mathematics and
Spanish. The Textbook Division--Planalibre--would be responsible for textbook
planning, writing, illustrating, editing, composition, prototype production,
testing and revision. A contract for final printing would be awarded to a
private firm under international competitive bidding.  The distribution of
textbooks would be the responsibility of a specialized division within the
Department of Basic Education and would be on the basis of one book for every
two students in rural schools. Textbooks would be the property of each
school. Students would use them at home on a lending basis as well as at
school. Planalibre staff would be reinforced by the contracting of additional
personnel (about 16) specialized in each of the planned activities and would
be assisted by international consultants. Operational costs of Planalibre,
including salaries of key staff, would be financed under the proposed Bank
loan at 80% the first year, reduced by 20% each succeeding year, so that after
the fourth year the government would absorb such costs entirely (thus the
average Bank financing would be 50% of the total salary cost). Textbooks for
grades 1-6 would have an average of 160 pages each and teaching guides, about 80
about 80. The total cost (paper, printing, distribution) of one million books
and 63,000 teaching guides has been estimated at about US$1.3 million, exclud-
ing contingencies. Promotion of new textbooks would be by means of the ITV
network of the Ministry of Education, radio programs and posters. A program
to train teachers in the use of textbooks has been designed and would be
implemented, in coordination with Planalibre, by the in-service teacher
training unit at Ciudad Normal. During 1981-83 under this textbook program
all rural (about 400,000) and 20% of urban students (80,000) in grades 1-6
would be provided with textbooks. The Department of Basic Education would
maintain adequate records to monitor the proper distribution of textbooks and
include such information in its quarterly progress reports to the Bank. The
schedule of implementation is included in the Working Papers and was discussed
with the government during negotiations. At that time the government gave
assurances that (a) by January 31, 1980, professional staff (one general
coordinator and 16 textbook writers--four each for Spanish, Social Sciences,
Mathematics and Natural Sciences) with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank
will be appointed; and (b) by December 31, 1982, an evaluation study acceptable
to the Bank on student performance and achievement for selected subject areas
will be undertaken.
5.15      San Miguel_Technological Institute.  The project would provide
for the construction, furnishing and equipping of, and technical assistance
for, a new post secondary technical institute in San Miguel. The institute
would train, in a two year course, technicians in the following specialties,
which at present are not offered in El Salvador: (a) agroindustry, (b) indus-
trial maintenance, and (c) production and quality control. Total enrollment



- 20 -
would be 240 full time students, producing a yearly output of about 110 tech-
nicians.
5.16      Technical assistance specialists would help the staff of the Depart-
ment of Higher Education of the Ministry of Education in preparing the curri-
culum for each specialty to be offered. The curricula would be designed in
close consultation with industrialists to assure that the contents of the
courses are designed to help students leaving school before the end of the
two-year course find employment as assistant industrial technicians and to
facilitate their return to the Institute to complete the full course.
5.17      When in full operation the Institute would require a part time teach-
ing staff of about 30 (15 for general education, 5 technical teachers and 10
instructors).  General education teachers would be selected from the better
qualified secondary school teachers. Teachers for technical courses would be
employed on a part time basis from industry and from the Central American
Technological Institute (ITCA). Instructors would be trained by the technical
assistance specialists and under the fellowship program financed by the proj-
ect. The government gave assurances during negotiations that it will take all
necessary measures satisfactory to the Bank to attract qualified professional
staff for the project technical institute.
5.18      To ensure that the courses offered at the San Miguel Technological
Institute and other post secondary technological institutions are responsive
and relevant to job market needs, the Ministry of Education should establish,
not later than June 30, 1981, a student tracer and education evaluation
system for each institution. Assurances to this effect were sought from the
government during negotiations. Technical assistance (one man-year), would be
provided under the project to assist the government in establishing the tracer
and evaluation system.
5.19      School Administration and Supervision.  The project would provide
technical assistance in the form of two man-years of specialist services
in school administration and supervision and about 15 vehicles for central
and zone supervisors. School supervision would be reorganized and strengthened
in order to improve and extend basic education in rural areas and to ensure
the successful establishment of the school nuclearization system. Under
the government proposal, which is satisfactory, supervision would be carried
out by: (a) a central department, comprising administrative and technical
coordinating units; (b) zone or regional supervision units; and (c) nuclei
directors.  Technical and administrative responsibilities would be decentral-
ized, thus permitting: nuclei directors to deal directly with and resolve
matters that concern teachers; regional supervisors to offer technical assis-
tance and administrative support and guidance to nuclei directors; and central
supervisory staff to provide regional supervisors with general education
policy framework. Implementation of the new administrative and supervision
scheme would require revision of existing regulations as well as adjustments
in budgetary allocations. During negotiations the government gave assurance
that by June 30, 1981, such action will be completed.



- 21 -
5.20      Curriculum Development.  This project component would provide:
technical assistance (three man-years) in the form of specialist services
in basic education curriculum development, education technology and evalua-
tion; fellowships (four man-years) for training abroad of key staff of the
Curriculum Development Department of the Ministry of Education; and material
for printing a revised curriculum for basic education. With these inputs
provided by the project, the Department of Curriculum Development would be
able to complete revision of the curriculum for basic education in light of
the recommendations made following evaluation of the earlier education reform
(para. 2.10). The revised curriculum would be distributed to teachers and
would serve as the basis for the in-service teacher training program as well
as for the preparation of textbooks and other teaching material. Delays in
implementing these programs are not expected since the curricula for grades
1-3 are already revised.
5.21      Technical Assistance.  The project includes the provision altogether
of 21 man-years of specialist services and 15 man-years of fellowships for
training abroad. Fields of interest and the implementation schedule are shown
in Table T-10. The government and UNDP representatives have agreed in princi-
ple that UNDP funds (about US$0.7 million) available for financing technical
assistance in the education sector will be used mainly to contract specialist
services identified in the proposed education project. If this agreement is
crystalized, the savings in the loan fund will be cancelled or used to finance
additional programs in furtherance of project objectives. During negotiations
the government gave assurances that it will contract specialists and select
fellowship candidates on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and that
it will provide suitable counterpart staff for the specialists and make
appropriate arrangements for the placement of fellowship recipients.



- 22 -
VI. COST OF THE PROJECT
6.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$33.6 million.
The breakdown by type of program, shown in detail on Table T-10, is summarized
as follows:
Colones ('000)                    US$ ('000)
Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total
Programs
New Replacement &
Extension Schools         22,696.9  14,928.4  37,625.3   9,078.8   5,971.3  15,050.1
Reequipment of
Existing Schools               61.6     554.4      616.0       24.6      221.8     246.4
Teacher Training              4,225.9   2,186.4   6,412.3   1,690.4        874.5   2,564.9
School Supervision               25.0      225.0     250.0       10.0       90.0      100.0
Curriculum Development          655.0      220.0     875.0      262.0       88.0      350.0
Textbooks and Teaching
Material                   4,958.3   2,490.7   7,449.0   1,983.3         996.3   2,979.6
San Miguel Technological
Institute                  2,402.4   2,449.4   4,851.8        960.9      979.8   1,940.7
Technical Assistance
and Fellowships                -      3,000.0   3,000.0        -       1,200.0   1,200.0
Project Administration        1,149.5       60.5   1,210.0      459.8       24.2      484.0
Total Base Cost        36,174.6  26,114.8  62,289.4  14,469.8  10,445.9  24,915.7
Contingencies
Physical (10.6%)         3,860.6   2,742.4   6,603.0   1,544.2   1,097.0   2,641.2
Price    (21.9%)         8,957.4   6,101.0  15,058.4   3,583.0   2,440.4   6,023.4
Total Project Cost    48,992.6  34,958.2  83,950.8  19,597.0  13,983.3  33,580.3
Rounded Total          49,000.0  35,000.0  84,000.0  19,600.0  14,000.0  33,600.0
6.02      Base Costs.  Base construction costs of US$110/m2 for basic education
single story schools are derived from contract prices for schools constructed
under the Second Education Project. Although the majority of project school
facilities will be single story buildings, cost allowances are included for
schools that comprise six classsooms or more to be of multistory construction.
Except for the structure, which will need to conform to seismic design criteria,
buildings will otherwise reflect the use of economical standards and specifica-
tions, based on the results of the construction costs study to be undertaken
under this project (para. 7.03). Base costs also include incremental adjust-
ments to account for access to, and building conditions in, remote areas. The
cost of land is not included in the project. Where sites cannot be donated,



- 23 -
the cost of purchase will be borne by the government. Costs for site develop-
ment work are estimated at 20% of total building costs, and reflect the highly
uneven topography of the majority of school sites and the experience gained
from the Second Education Project. Furniture and equipment costs for the basic
education schools are based on procurement experience under the Second Educa-
tion Project for schools currently being built and average US$30 and US$10 per
student place, respectively.
6.03      Construction costs for the technological institute at San Miguel
are estimated at about US$295/m2, excluding site development costs, and reflect
multistory construction with greater than normal roof height and clear spans
to accommodate workshops and laboratories. Also included is air conditioning
in specialty laboratories. Site development costs have been estimated at 20%
of building costs, and furniture costs at 10% of building costs. Equipment
costs have been derived from experience in similar ongoing projects in other
countries and in consideration of current world market prices.
6.04      The construction cost for the Ciudad Normal extension (approximately
1,300 m2 of administration and office facilities) and Textbooks and Teaching
Material Production Center (approximately 700 m2 of administration, office
and storage facilities) is estimated at US$220/m2 (single story) and US$330/m2
(multistory), respectively, excluding site development costs. Furniture costs
have been estimated at 10% of building costs.  Equipment costs are based on
preliminary equipment lists and arrived at using current world market prices.
Training costs of school directors and industrial arts and home economics
teachers have been estimated on an average unit cost basis of US$200 per
trainee. The cost of the School Administration and Supervision Program
(US$100,000) includes 15 vehicles for central and zone supervisors. The cost
of the Curriculum Development Program includes material and equipment for
printing a revised curriculum. Operating costs of the Planalibre program
(US$1.9 million) include salaries of key staff, textbook printing and distri-
bution, and special training courses for teachers. Project related technical
assistance costs have been estimated at an average of US$50,000 per man-year,
including local costs and overhead, for specialists and at US$10,000 per
man-year for fellowships.
6.05      Professional fees for the design and construction supervision of
the project institutions are based on the relevant schedule of fees of the
El Salvadorian Institute of Architects and Engineers.
6.06      Contingency Allowances.  Contingency allowances are added to the
base project cost and average 10.6% for physical contingencies and 21.9% for
price contingencies. Individual physical contingencies are estimated at 20%
for site work and 10% for all other components. Price contingencies are
estimated on the basis of 10% yearly increases in the local component, and
increases of 9% in the first year and 8% in succeeding years for the foreign
component. Total contingencies amount to US$8.66 million, equivalent to 35%
of the base cost estimate. Contingency allowance calculations are shown in
Table T-11.



- 24 -
6.07      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component of the
project is estimated to amount to US$14.0 million, representing 42% of the
total project cost, and has been calculated as follows: construction 35%,
furniture 65%, equipment 90%, technical assistance 85%, fellowships 100%, and
project implementation 5%.
6.08      Financing Plan.  The total project cost of US$33.6 million will
be financed by a Bank loan of US$23.5 million and a government contribution
of US$10.1 million. The proposed loan, equivalent to 70% of the total proj-
ect cost, will finance the full foreign exchange component (US$14.0 million)
and 48.5% of the local currency component (US$9.5 million). A breakdown of
financing by year and category of expenditure is shown in Table T-13 and
summarized below.
Financing Schedule
(US$ '000)
Calendar Year            Government      Bank       Total
1980                    1,300       3,500      4,800
1981                    2,700       6,600      9,300
1982                    3,400       7,600     11,000
1983                    2,400       5,100      7,500
1984                      300         700      1,000
Total                  10,100      23,500     33,600
6.09      Recurrent Costs.  Recurrent costs generated by the project will
amount to US$1.8 million (1978 prices) by 1985. Of the total, US$1.3 million
is attributable to the basic education component of the project. Overall,
the generated recurrent costs will amount to about 1.5% of the projected total
recurrent expenditure of the public sector of US$120 million.
VII. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
7.01      Project Administration.  Project administration and execution would
be the responsibility of a recently established (January 1979) Coordinating
Unit. The less than satisfactory performance of the Department of Educational
Architecture (Direccion de Arquitectura Educativa - DAE) in implementing the
Second Education Project (Loan 1007-ES) required the establishment of a Project
Coordinating Unit to accelerate project implementation and to guide it to a
satisfactory conclusion. The Unit is headed by a general coordinator who is
assisted by an educator, one architect/engineer, a procurement officer, an
accountant, and support staff. The Unit has direct access to the Minister
and the two Sub-Secretaries of Education and draws, on a case-by-case basis,
on the services that can be provided by the various departments within the
Ministry. Upon completion of the management study of DAE to be carried out



- 25 -
under UNDP technical assistance (para. 2.05), it is envisaged that a restruc-
tured and streamlined DAE could eventually replace the Project Coordinating
Unit and the private consultant firms contracted to handle all design,
construction, and supervision phases of implementation. The salaries and
operating expenses (estimated at US$484,000, net of contingencies) of the
Project Coordinating Unit for the four year implementation period are included
in the total project cost.
7.02      Project Implementation and Monitoring.  Implementation of the proj-
ect's major component, the basic education schools, would take place in three
phases, each consisting of approximately one-third the total number of nuclei.
The project is expected to be completed within four years from the date of
signing of the Loan Agreement. Table T-14 shows the project's tentative
implementation schedule, which was discussed during negotiations.   It was
mutually agreed that it would be updated on a regular basis and used as a
project implementation and monitoring tool. Furthermore, to ensure that
the physical facilities and the educational objectives of the project are
being implemented as envisaged, the government should, on an annual basis,
undertake a physical and educational audit of the completed project institu-
tions and submit such audit reports to the Bank for review. Assurances in
this respect were sought from the government during negotiations.
7.03      Professional and Technical Services.  Consultants acceptable to the
Bank should be appointed for the architectural design, site surveys and tech-
nical evaluation of sites, construction supervision, and for assistance in
preparation of relevant bid documents and evaluation of bids. Due to an exist-
ing trend pointing to excessively high construction costs for rural basic
education schools in El Salvador, consultants would also be appointed to assist
the Project Coordinating Unit in conducting a study to determine ways of reduc-
ing construction costs for such schools. This study would determine the possi-
bility of introducing preassembled systems for on-site erection of classroom
modules, community participation in school construction, etc., and would involve
the construction of five to eight study prototypes resulting from local and
foreign proposals. With the assistance of consultants, the Project Coordinat-
ing Unit would expand the agreed project implementation schedule and prepare,
based on the results of the aforementioned construction study and project
working papers, (a) educational specifications and basic construction standards
for preparing designs; (b) architectural specifications and building materials
to be used; and (c) unit cost for the project institutions. Also, the Project
Coordinating Unit will review and evaluate, with qualified representatives
from the relevant Departments of the Ministry of Education, architectural
designs, equipment and furniture lists and specifications, and textbooks and
teaching material production, and certify that they meet economic and func-
tional standards and costs as well as the educational objectives of the
project.
7.04      Project Implementation Fund.  To ensure the timely availability of
local counterpart funds and the need for keeping of separate accounts for the
execution of the project, a project implementation fund should be established
with an initial amount of at least t1.0 million. The establishment of this



- 26 -
fund will be a special condition of effectiveness of the loan. This fund
should be audited on an annual basis by auditors acceptable to the Bank.
7.05      Sites.  The location of the new schools and replacement schools
for basic education have been determined through school mapping, but sites
for these schools had not yet been selected during project appraisal and
must therefore be selected and acquired. Criteria for their location, size
and site characteristics were discussed and agreed upon during appraisal.
Because of the difficulties and delays encountered under the Second Education
Project, the government shall furnish, as a condition for disbursements for
this project component, evidence satisfactory to the Bank of (i) the acquisi-
tion of at least 65 sites for the construction of project schools; and
(ii) the selection of at least 35 additional sites for the same purpose.
7.06      Procurement.  Civil works under this project are unlikely to attract
foreign contractors due to (a) the small size of most schools and (b) their
remove and scattered locations. There exist a number of small to medium sized
local building contractors who are adequately equipped and administratively
capable of undertaking the construction works, and experience with them under
the Second Education Project has been satisfactory. All construction contracts
will therefore be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; however, interested
foreigr. contractors will not be precluded from bidding. To facilitate construc-
tion supervision, which will be carried out by consultants contracted by the
Project Coordination Unit, bid packages for basic education schools will be
prepared on the basis of grouping two or three nuclei, depending on their
geographic location. The same consultants will also assist the Project
Coordination Unit in the cost control and scheduling of each building contract.
Construction supervision will be implemented in the same manner for the other
construction items.
7.07      Furniture, equipment, textbooks, and other teaching material will
be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Items will be grouped to form sizable packages for
bulk purchasing. Items that cannot be grouped in packages of at least
US$50,000, or are produced by the Ministry of Education Center for the Pro-
duction of Teaching and Learning Material (CREA), and do not exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of US$600,000 (corresponding to 10% of the total
cost of furniture, equipment, textbooks, and other teaching material), will
be purchased in accordance with the Borrower's regular procurement procedures,
which are satisfactory to the Bank. Bidders from member countries of the
Central American Common Market may receive a preferential margin of 15% of
c.i.f. costs or 50% of tariffs levied on non-CACM bidders, whichever is lower.
7.08      Maintenance.  During negotiations the Borrower gave assurances that
it will adequately maintain the buildings, furniture and equipment of the
institutions included in the project. For this purpose, the annual budget of
each completed project school should include funds equivalent to at least 1%
of the replacement cost of construction and 5% of the replacement cost of
equipment and furniture, for maintenance of physical facilities.



- 27 -
7.09      Disbursements.  The proposed loan of US$23.5 million is equivalent
to 70% of total project cost and would finance its entire foreign exchange
component plus approximately 48.5% of the local cost. The loan would be
disbursed over a period of four years to meet (i) 53% of construction costs
and professional services, (ii) 85% of local expenditures or 100% of foreign
expenditures for furniture, equipment, textbooks, and teaching materials,
(iii) 100% of the costs of technical assistance, fellowships abroad, and
special teacher training courses, and (iv) 50% of project administration costs
(equivalent to 80%, 60%, 40% and 20% of the estimated total cost during the
first, second, third and fourth years, respectively, of project implementa-
tion). Table T-15 provides the estimated disbursement schedule over the dura-
tion of the project. An amount not exceeding US$300,000 would be disbursed
retroactively to finance the construction and equipping of the Textbooks
Department facilities and professional fees and other expenditures related
to project implementation incurred from November 1, 1978. All disbursements
will be fully documented.
VIII. BENEFITS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, AND EVALUATIONS
8.01      Benefits.  The proposed project would assist the Government of
El Salvador in its continuing effort to correct the imbalance of educational
opportunities between rural and urban areas of basic education and to improve
school organization and administration through the introduction of the school
nuclearization system, the retraining and upgrading of about 10,000 rural
primary teachers, school directors and supervisors, and the provision to rural
primary students of textbooks and other learning materials. Significant
improvements in educational opportunity, quality and efficiency are expected,
and the project would thus help reduce the considerable wastage in annual
operating expenditures for rural primary education caused by low student
completion rates. About 90,000 children of primary school age and 12,500
out-of-school youths and adults would benefit annually from the provision of
basic education and nonformal training sources in project institutions. In
addition, the project would expand opportunities for the training of indus-
trial technicians to meet regional and national technical manpower needs and
assist the government in setting up a student tracer and evaluation system
to make training programs more responsive to employment requirements. About
110 technicians will be trained annually in the project institution.
8.02      Risks and Uncertainties.  No major risks are foreseen in the staff-
ing of project rural schools with qualified teachers due to the government
policy of improving their conditions of service (para. 5.06). The most
serious risks associated with the proposed project would be possible delay
in execution due to frequent changes in high level personnel (education policy
makers and technical people), lack of coordination among Ministry of Education
departments, and inability of existing administrative machinery to adhere to a
fixed schedule. The delays experienced during implementation of the Second
Education Project financed by IBRD are indicative of the risk involved. If
the proposed project suffers the same delays, ongoing inflation will very
likely make it impossible to carry out a significant part of the project.



- 28 -
Conscious of this, the government is taking steps to improve coordination
among the departments of the Ministry of Education as well as to improve their
efficiency. In addition, the government has established a project coordi-
nating unit and staffed it with high level professionals, whose main function
will be to cut through the customary bureaucratic red tape and ensure the
prompt completion of each consecutive stage of the project.
8.03      A second risk, related to that already mentioned, is that available
counterpart funds might fall short of the estimated requirement. In addition
to about US$1.2 million in counterpart funds for the new project in 1980, the
government would provide US$5.0 million for completion of the Second Education
Project. While no major fiscal difficulties are anticipated during the next
few years, the total amount of budgetary resources required for this project
and the education sector as a whole will be substantial. We, therefore,
discussed during negotiations the establishment of a project implementation
fund (para. 7.04) and were given assurances that adequate local funds will be
available.
8.04      Evaluation.  The project would be administered by a Coordinating
Unit established for completion of the Second Education Project. A comprehen-
sive implementation schedule designed during appraisal was discussed and
agreed upon during negotiations and will be periodically updated as a project
monitoring tool. Systematic evaluation of the software/educational aspects
of the project, including a follow-up study of graduates from technical
institutes, would be undertaken by relevant offices of the Ministry of
Education, with support from the technical assistance specialists financed
under the project.  The government will also prepare a completion report
on the project within six months of the closing date of the loan account.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations the government gave assurances that it will:
(a) take all necessary action, including the issuance of regulations,
to organize and administer the primary school nuclearization
system in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, no later than
June 30, 1981 (paras. 2.12, 5.05);
(b) select qualified nuclei directors specifically trained for this
purpose and compensate them with salaries no lower than those of
the Directores de Escuelas Unificadas; staff project schools with
qualified teachers who had successfully completed in-service training
courses on rural community development under a school nuclearization
system; and assign teachers trained in multigrade teaching to
project schools as necessary (para. 5.06);
(c) appoint qualified professional staff for the textbooks production
program satisfactory to the Bank, no later than January 31, 1980,
and undertake an evaluation study on the effect of school resources
input on student performance and achievement for selected subject
areas not later than December 31, 1982 (paras. 5.13, 5.14);



- 29 -
(d) take all necessary measures, satisfactory to the Bank, in order
to attract qualified professional staff for the project technological
institute (para. 5.17);
(e) establish a student tracer and education evaluation system for
the San Miguel Technological Institute and other post secondary
technological institutions not later than June 30, 1981 (para. 5.18);
(f) revise the existing regulation governing school supervision to
accommodate it to the new school organization system and make
adjustment in budgetary allocations by June 30, 1981 (para. 5.19);
(g) contract specialists and select fellowship candidates, on the
basis of criteria and on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank; provide suitable counterparts for the specialists; and
make appropriate arrangements for the placement of fellowship
recipients (para. 5.21);
(h) undertake on an annual basis a physical and educational audit
of completed project institutions, to ensure that the physical
facilities and the educational objectives of the project are being
implemented as envisaged (para. 7.02);
(i) present evidence satisfactory to the Bank that at least 65 sites
had been acquired and an additional 35 sites had been selected
for construction of project schools as a condition for disburse-
ment for this project component (para. 7.05); and
(j) make adequate budgetary allocations for the maintenance and
operation of project institutions (para. 7.08).
9.02      A special condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement is the
establishment of a project implementation fund with an initial amount of at
least L1.0 million (para. 7.04).
9.03      The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$23.5
million equivalent to the Republic of El Salvador for a term of 20 years,
including a five year period of grace.
May 16, 1979



30
ANNEX 1
TABLE T-1
Page I of 2
--------------- ------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------
GNP        GNP       TOTAL;%  Of PUBLIC:                                                                               :SEC
CAPITA: OEVOTED:PUBLIC    EDUCATION    LITER-   PRI. :CCMPLE- :STU- ;SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC. :STU- :HIGHER:
AT     TO EOU.:  EAP.   RECURRENT    :ACY              ;SNROLL:TION        :DENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE :SWROLL:DtMTS:EMAOLL:
"RKET   (PURLICOEVOTEO!EXP ALLOCATED!  RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER    RFLATION  :FROM PAI.:RATIO  :PER    :RATIO  :   '
POP. :pq1CES  EXP.            To     :      TCI:       :(% OF   : NET   :PRI.SCH.:TEACH TO QWf :TO SEC.                 14ET   :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:MILLS.: (US$): ONLY              ED.. :PRr. SEC. HI.:ADULrS): (%)  :CYCLE(%);ER                   CAPrTA                          :ER       M
fl)       (2)      (3)        (4)                        (s)       (7)        (8)       (9)      00)        (II)       :(II)   :03) :04)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AOVAhICED
ALUSTRIA          74    7.SF 4   7OF       5.3Y   i:.SEY  24Y  SIV  ISY    99             go         930       260       2.00        99D       SID      120    16.8gy
CANADA            75  22.8  7:1113S        7.3        .7     30    37    26       ge      99         97        19        2.0         92        so       la      16.00
GERMANY F.REP.76  SI.:9                    5.0    10.2       31EY 84-- 26EY  99           90         99        23EY                  99Y       edit    22C    20.26Y
,JA   N           7       -      450       4.3C  20.7E    IOUI 31UI IIUI  1.              T.         -SC       11                    19.       ... Y    20C    .4.441
NETHERLANDS    71   13'I"4S              9.4    22.4D    21   39    25          99       95        95        29        2.0         97        30       20      12.00
NEW ZEALAND    73    3.IF4,28OF            5.2    ...        39    24    29       go       99        go        26         ...        go        67       12      24.00
"OR AY            76    4.0      043       7.2    14.4       94    24    '5       99      99         9         1         1.5         gof        2       If      11-00
ZWEDWEN           76    8.2:iso            8.8    ,4.0       23    29    12       99                           1:        ...         909       :SC      la      30.OOC
U.K               75   $6.0  3.790         7.t    13.2       26    41    1:       9of      99                  24        2 0         ...       48       17      2I.OOx
1          5                1                                                .99.                                                to
U.S.A            76 2 4.6  7,9 0          5.4                      72    2       99       99                  22                    99        93               24.00
EUROPE
GREECE            70    9.1  2.590         2.6    iO.4       37    26    21       sea     go         820       31       2.0          70E       so       27      115.00
IRELAND           74    3.1F 2.39OF        5.1    13.90    43Y  41Y   14Y   Se           IOSXY       99A       35       ...         95A        soxy    is       iS.47Y
PORTUGAL          7.7   9.7 I,B50          3.6    15.4       41 21        1'S    70(i       82       50-       19       2.0          75-       35       12       5.00
RfJMANIA          75  21.2   1.240         4-0      6.4      36    19    13      go        lOiX                21                    ge        49       22      10.00
SPAIN             74  35.3F 2,75OF         2.4e,  IS 2A    49Y  22Y   ISY    9AA    II SXY          ...       35A      ---                    7axy    30       117.09Y
AFRICA
ALGERIA           77   16.9      99OG      75    14.3FY  42    ...  21           35      79X        45        39        4.0        55         24lx     13       9.00,
BENIN             74    3-IF    11OF       7214  3 .0Y    47    230   ioo    iio         4AXY       los       53Y      25.06        438       tixv    396       0.74Y
BOTSWANA          76    0.7      410       4,0    1:.2       S31)  20    14        3      72X        95        32        3.0        60         i2       22       0.30
SURUNO1           74    3.7F     I;OF      2.5    19.90    470  43IR   12R    10          2OX        30?       38       10.0         14         2X      is       1.0
CAME   ON                                  3.7    21.5                    20              so                                         2.0        90      24       0.90cy
A.:O           76    7.7F    324                 1        33     4                                45        52       4.0
C.                74    1.8      2 OF      3.00    7.00    566   tgS   ...                79xy       25        egy      ...          Is         BXY    27BY    0.21Y
CHAD              75    4.0      120       3.0    100       is    22   ...       Is      29XRY    30          SSBY    is.0           a         2XBV  30         0.019Y
CONGOW            74    1.3p    SIOF       6.0    19.3       40    32    2i      507    133X         63        63        5.0         48        33X      22       3.40
EGYPTP            76   3:.2      310       5.9N    ...       30    32    25      44       76        80         31        ...        79         40       20       12-00
ETHIC IA          77 2,0         I00       2.4    12.5    44       31    14       10      26         ...       so        ...         63         a       38       ...
GABON             74    05F 2.54OF        5.00   20.50    250    go   110    ...    IQOY            25C       45C       5.0         "'A       31Y      21C      0 2gy
GAMBIA            76    0.5      170       3.3    11.5       46    25      6      10      27         90        33       ...         B.         i3       25        7
CGHANA            74    S_9F    S90F        ...    ig.7y    43Y  22Y   20YO   ...    SOXY            628       30Y                   146       76xy    iscy    llogy
.UINEA           7:    4,7       ZF        4.3NO  ...       30    3i   30        ...      3ox       :4        45         12F        ag         13X     26       4.00
IVORY COAST    7        7.0      GI0       45.6    23.1      33    44    13       SA      so          1        41       7.0         47         17XY    26        1.64Y
XENYA             Is   13.s      240       5.9    26.0       67    23    10      40       907        607       34        6.0         30        Is       27       1.0
LESOTHO           75    t.2      ISO      12.OP   23.0       49    Is    20      40       as         so        52        7.0*       SI         10       26       i.00
LIBERIA           75    t.5      41o       2.4    13.2       27    to    20      73       Se         .1.       3s        2.0         ...       12       26       i.IOAY
AOAGASCAR       77    S.0       240       4.0    24.0       93    20    19      so       90        33         44        6.0        38         14       23       1.70
MALAWt            77      a      140       2.2      9.3      40    IT    22      26       sex        21        el        5.0          9         5x      21       0.47
MALI              75    :_7F      gof      4.2M  33.OF    45F  37F   iSF    lof           22XF       ...       48F      9.3F        5OF         sx      21
'AAURITANIA       71    1.31'   32OF       4.IY  20.OY    ...   ...  ...    IOA           I?XY       ...       22A       ...                    3XY    24A       ...
4AURITIUS         76    0.9L    630        4.7    :2.21    5OR  26         6     SOC      94        99         24        45          90       4S       32       1.30
MOROCCO           76 1a.2        $20       6.3      S.       39    4SR   13R    2a        65X        33        40        ...        33         17X      22       4.00
NIGERIA           74  7S-OF    34OF        4.10Y 24.20Y  23y ISY  42Y    ...              49XY       ...       340Y                  ...       IOXY    20CY    0.48Y
QWAN0A            73    4.IF    IOOF       3.2C  28.00       -      ...   ...   23        52         ...       St        ...         ...        2       13       0.23CY
SENEGAL          77    5.2       420       5.0    23.0       46    34    20       10      32         ...       49       100        20         io       21       1.9
SIERRA LEONE  73    3.04'   20OF           3.4    23.4       31   36    30        i57     34X       45         32        4.OE       88         lax      2i       0.53BY
5;M,L IA        75    3.2       110       3.70   10.80    490   160   190    SO?         34X       as         35       100        so          3       la       0.10
SUDAN            76 15.9         290       4.5    ig.9       48    345   16      20       34        74         132       3.8        33         14       24        1.24
SWAZILANO        -1.3   0-5      470       3.8      ---      as    31    19      so       73        71         311       3.9        51         24       22       1.00
rANZANIA          76   15.i      iso       6.6    i7.4       42    21    12      so       93A       81         49        6.6          a         4X      19       0.34
l'UNISIA          73   5.6F    73OF        6.3    23.4       37    43    Is      S5       72        el         41        6.0        31         14       21       3.00
UGANDA            75   11.6      230       3.40Y 15.70Y  34EY AOEY 22EY  25A              53XY       ...       34EY      ...         IAA        6XCY  2fA        0.56y
UPPEq VOLTA    77    5.8         II$       3.4    23.9       31    la    32        5c      13       23         St       24.0         t9         2       25       1.0
ZAIRE            76  25,6        140       6,0    22-0       49    26    25       is      SGX       44         42X       2.0        41         13X      27       t.OOX
ZAMBIA            76    S'l      440       6.8    15.9       54    22    22      39       97X       so         49        7.0        2i         la       23       f.50
CENTPAL AMERICA ANO THE CARIBBEAN
------------- -------------------
BARSADOS          75    0.2   1,620        8.1   22.i        43    31    is      99      loex       99         21        3.0         99        94X      17       ...
COSTA RICA        7s    2.0      960       5.28   22.79    579   256   128    age    i09xy           SSB       298       3.06        lee       52xy    253    17.iSY
CUBA              78    9.5  91500         8.0    ilo    ...-           ...     so       98        98         22        27        98         Ss       Is      15.00
OOMINICAN PEP72    4. 7F    72OF          3.0    13.9       42    24    22      5t       so         1 7       54        3.01)      63         t3.5    24        7.00
EL SALVADOR    77    4.1         570       4.0    27.2       64     a     27     62       lax       32         39        2.2        41         23       21       7.0(
GUATEMALA         73    6,3F    57OF       i.9    16.0       55    23    I 4     47       64         26        35        3.0        So          a       25       4.09Y
HAITI             76    4,7      200        i.0     a_O      el   21    11       202      25F        la        sou       3.0         62         4       ...       0.7
4ONDURAS          7s    2.9      39OG      A.2G   iS.BG    62G   igG   19C    53          is        30         39        3.0        SS         if       17,      4.00
'JAMAICA          76    2.1  1.070         9.9    16.2       37    33    22      86E      91        52         39        4.5        94         84       25       T.S8
MEXICOO           75  59.9   1.050         3.IDQ  12.ODQ  51Y  26Y   12Y    76           112XY      31         46        3.0        a         agxv    23A       6.97EY
NICARA UA         74    2.3F    70OF       2.5    14.2       Si    13    13      57       Ss        21         37        2.0        93         17       24       7.00
TRINIDAD & T. 77    1.1  2,185             4.5    14.1       de    32    20      95       98        gi         30        3.0        49         62       24        ...
SOUTH AMERICA
-------------
BOLIVIA           76    5.8      315F      5.0    17.5F                          30        178       290       24        5F          ...        48      loo      ...
BRAZIL            Ti 107.0   1,030         .O    12.4       42E  20E    37E  64A         SGG        ...       27cy                  ...       280      fecy    8.008
CHILrz            75   10.3      990       3.8RY I2.5RY  23Y   IOY  50Y    -1.    119xv                        3sy       ...         ...       4oxy    ...    16.55Y
COLOMBIA          74  23.SF   58OF         3-30Y 21 20Y  AADY 22DY IIY    73             ioexy       20        33Y       40         90        3oxy    14A       5.57V
ECUADOR           75    7.1      590       37[3  27,7C    ...-           ...   69       102XY       ...       36C       ...                   3axy    14C       ...
GUYANA            74    0.8F    SIOF       5.6N   14.70    47    35    14        03A      92X        39        33        8.0         19        62X      24       1.00
pARAGUAY         74    2.eF    58OF        1.8    11.0       55    13    22      el       82         26        30        f.9        85         IT       12       S.00
pERti             75   15.4      760       4.20Y 21.70Y  40Y  22Y   ISY    T2            tiixy       38        390Y      3.0        70         4axy    230Y         14.41Y
URUGUAY           75    2.8   1,300        2.5    IS.3       46    34    20      94       93X                  24        ...        83         ...      to       ...
VeNEZUELA        73   12.OF 2.28OF         4.6    199       300   280   3SO    77A       at         ...       33        2.4                   33       ...    12.63CY



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE T-1
Page 2 of 2
COPRTVE EDUCATION INDICATORS  (CONTO)
MAY 1, 1979
*   GNP/   % GNP  :% TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                             :    PRI. :AV.PRI.               :          SEC
:CAPITA: DEVOTED:PUB,LIC   EDUCATION    :LITER-   P61.  COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC. :STU- :HIGHER:
*      AT   TO EDU.:  EXP.   RECURRENT    :ACY          :ENROLL:TION      :DENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE :ENROLL:DENTS:ENROLL:
:RMLL.MARKET: (PUBLIC:DEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER  :RELATION :FROM PRI.:RATIO :PER  :RATIO 
POP. -PICES: BP.  TO   .     TO:       :(% OF  : NET  :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNP/ :TO SEC.    NET  :TEACH- GROSS:
YRMLS:(USS): ONLY)       E OU. :PRI. SEC. NI.:ADULTS): 1%)  -CYCLE(%):ER         : CAPITA       M %       (%)  :ER   : M
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN   77M 14.3    160G         l.A   11.6    47   19   IS    12          29X      69       37       3.0G       62       ax     IT       1.00
BANGLADESH      73  78.6F    ROF       1.2   20.2    44Y  22Y  21Y   230    SAX            ...     480      . ..      . ..     23x0   285        .
CHINA(TAIWAN) 73  I6.OF   830F    3.2   14.0    28   41   22    82               Rac      94       40      14.0       BA       aic    26    20.OOC
INDIA           76 606.1     14O      2.6VY  ...       ...... 29B    65XY                 ...      43A      ...       ...      29XY   20AY   2.34EY
INDONESIA       76 130.2    240       3.0   11.0    26   32   15    606    79EX    43E             30E      2.0       52E      I9EX   14E    2.00
IRAN            73  33.4F 1.660F    3.3   12.6    506  lAB  128   s0            7T        74A      32       5.06      BOA      24      32      4.32CY
IRAQ            75  11.1  1.2S0       6.7C  16.30R .. ....               26C    93XY      ...      22       ..        ...      3Sxy   2CC    8.47Y
JORDAN          77   2.1    997       4.5    8.6    256  SOR   3R   69          87        at       32       2.0       91       66      22    79.i0
KOREA           78  37.0  1.242        2.8   17.5    35   29   36    93         102X      94       49       2.9       RI       60      45     18.00
LEBANON         72   3.2F 1.070F    3.5   16.0    39   40   10    65            86        65       19       2.0       63       26U    25    23.00
MALAYSIA        76  12.6    860       6.7   26.0    42   34   15    SOC    96             93       32       3.7       78       48      28      3.00
NEPAL           76  12.6F   11OF       1.1   10.0    29   20   41    18          59       28       31       2.3       64        14     24      0.8
OMAN            72   O.AF 2.300F       1.7N   3.8    96    -   -         20      24X      99       27F      7.0       ..        .4X    9        ..
PAKISTAN        75  69.2    160        1.6   16.2    45   25   18    21          47X      50       39       2.0       . ..      17X    iB      6.00
PAPUA N.G.      75   2.8    470        6.6   16.1    38   16   24    32          577      73P      31      Il.O       90       12X?   24       0.90?
PHILIPPINES   74  42.2F   380F    2.5   14.9    73   15   12    87    I04X                . ..     34      15.0       .. .     Aex     . ..   21.00
SINGAPORE       74   2.3F 2,450F    2.7Y   9.2Y   39Y  39Y  17Y   TSA   IO9xy    72A               31Y      . ..      994      44XY   24       7.68Y
SYRIA           75   7.4    720       3.6    6.8    39   25   26    63          89        70       35       2.0       92       45      21    12.00
THAILAND        77  44.1    410       4.OV  20.0   56   30   15    93          63       3 0        35       S.Ou      T0       25      25      3.00
TURKEY          73  4Q.2F   9OOF    5.6CY 20.6CY .8...5.. ..                      7       ...      34Y      . ..      . ..     24Y    270Y   5.637
YEMEN           73   5.9F   200F    0.5    4.0    4SF  21P  23P   tO            1sx      is        36       5.0       75        2X     19      0.0567
YEMEN P.0.R.  76   1 7    260         6.6      ..     57   28    a    20        Rag      48        30       5.0       94       21X    24       0.10
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COIUNTRIES:
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES:                  94    90       88   88   86    87        95       74        95         68      77       94      91       84
RANGE:                             (0.5-  (3.8-  (25- (5-  (2-   (3-    (I4-    (13-    (19-              (1.9-   (7-       (.4-   (9-       (.01-
12.0 ) 33.0)   96 ) 47)  41)   98)         133X)   99 )       8       25.0 )   99)       e0  )  39)   23.01
OUARTILES:UPPER.                    5.1   21.2    54   32   22    73          94       76       46          7       83       36      25      7.0
MEDIAN:                  3.9   16.3    45   23   la    50          78       55       36         4       63        17     23      2.3
LOWER :                  3.0   12.4    38   la   12    20          53       30       32         3       43        9      20        .9
SYMBOLS: ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE               At897O OR SEFORE           M.CURRENT PRICES                        SOURCES:
-MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE B=1871                         N-GOP----
Q UESTIONABLE                    C-1972                     P-INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                  CDLUMNS:l AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS D01973                         0-CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                       OR 15R0 MISSIONS
-=COMBINED WITH PRIMARY           E-1974                     B-MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                3 TO 14 IB80 MISSIONS
..UNDER REVIEW                    F-1975                      S-MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                 AND/OR UNESCO
G-1976                     T=EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                  STATISTICAL
U-PUBLIC ONLY                                              YEARBOO0K
V-INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X-INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y-UNESCO SOURCES
--  -  - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - -
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER.ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA.CROSS-NATTONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PReSENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLL.ECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MI1SSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES ORBOATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECX THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS.SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORXING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY DN THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA. THE FOLLOWING OUALIFICATrONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MID(I01EDUCATION' AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING.  FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL;
(2)"PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND "SECDNDARY- EDUCATION REFERS To ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE 11.G. GENERAL. TECHNICAL. AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)"LITERACY RATES-(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE" HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY:
(4)"PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATIDN'(COLS.3,4 AND B) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES:
(BI'ENROLLMENT RATIOS"(COLS 7. 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(IIE. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
EL SALVADOR                            TABLE T-2
FOURTI EDUCATION PROJECT
Enrollment by Level and Controlling Authoritv
1973 - 1977
('000)
Average
Public and Private              Annual
Level                      1973    1974    1975    1976    1977   Increase
Basic Education (Grades 1-6)         588.0   614.0   641.0   668.0   690.0   3.3%
Basic Education (grades 7-9)          92.0   109.0   119.0   129.0   133.0   7.7%
Secondary (Grades 10-12)               35.0    45.0    52.0    59.0    65.0  13.2%
Higher Non-University                   1.1     1.4      1.4      2.0     2.3  15.9%
University                             13.2    18.7    23.6    27.3    28.0  16.3%
Private Sector Participation
(Percentage of Total Enrollment)
Basic Education (Grades 1-6)              5%       4%      4Z       4%       4% -4.5%
Basic Education (Grades 7-9)             24%      20%     18%      16%      16% -8.5%
Secondary  (Grades 10-12)                50%     53%      55%      56%     58%  3.0%
Higher Non-University                     -       -        -        -        -
University                               20%     13%      12%      12%      13% -8.9%
SOURCE: Mtinistry of Education



-33 -                                             ANNEX 1
TABLE T-3
EL SALVADOR
PROPOSED FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
School Age Population and Enrollment ('000) and Ratio by Level and Area
1976         1977         1978          1979         1980          1981         1982         1983        1984          1985
A.   Population 7-12 ('000)
Total                       759.7        780.3        801.4         823.1        045:4         870:2        895.8        921.0        946.8        973.3
Rural                      455.8         468.2        480.8         493.9        507.2         522.1        537.5         552.6       537.2        552.2
Urban                      303.9         312.1        320.6         329.2        338.2         348.1        358.3         368.4      409.6         421.1
Grades 1-6 Enrollment ('000)
Total                      668.0         690.0        712.8         736.3        760.6         785.7        811.6         838.4       866.1        R94.7
Rurat                      312.7         329.6        349.7         371.0        393.7         417.7        443.2        470.2        472.5        491.5
Urban                      355.3         360.4        363.1         365.3        366.9         368.0        368.4         368.2       393.6        403.2
Ratio P/E (4)
Total                        88.2         88.4         88.9          89.4         89.9          90.2         90.6          91.0        91.5         92.0
Rural                        68.6         70.3         72.7          7S.1         77.6          80.0         82.4          85.1        87.9         89.0
Urban                      116.9         115.4        113.2         110.9        108.4         105.7        102.8         100.0        96.0         96.0
B.   Population   13-15  ( 000)
Total                      304.0         312.5        321.2         330.2        339.4         348.8        358.4         368.3       378.5        389.0
Rural                      182.0         187.5        192.7         198.1        203.6         209.3        215.0         221.0       227.0        233.0
Urban                      122.0         125.0        128.5         132.1        135.8         139.5        143.4         147.3       151.5        156.0
Grades 7-9 Enrollment ('000)
Total                      129.0         133.0        143.0         154.0        166.0         179.0        193.0         208.0       224.0        241.0
Rural                       1i33          15.2         18.5          22.6         27-6          33.7         41.0          51.9        66.5         87.0
Urban                       115.7        117.8        124.5         131.4        138.4         145.3        152.0         136.1       157.5         154.0
Ratio (PIE) (X)
Total                       42.4          42.5         44.5          46.6         48.9          51.3         53.8          56.4        59.2          62.0
Rural                         7.0          8.0           9.6         11.4         13.5          16.1         19.0          22.5        29.3          37,3
Urban                        94.8         94.2         96.8          99.4        101.9         104.1        105.9         106,0       105.0          99.0
C.   Population '16-18 ('000)
Total                      275.8         284.4        293.3         302.6        312.0         320.6        329.5         339.4       349.6         360.1
Rural                      129.6         133.6        137.8         142.2        146.6        150.6         154.9         159.5       164.3         169.2
Urban                      146.2         150.8        155.5         160.4        165.4         170.0        174.6         179.9       185.3         190.9
Grades 10-12 Enrollment ('030)
Total                        59.0         65.0         67.5          70.0         74.3          78.6         83.0          87.1        91.4          96.0
Rural                           -            _-                                -            -                   -                   -
Urban                        59.0         65.0         67.5          70.0         74.3          78,6         83.0          87.1        91.4          96.0
Ratio (PIE) (X)
Total                       21.3          22.8         23.0          23;1         23.8          24.5         25.1          25.6        26.1          26.7
Rural                           -            -             -            -             -            -            -
Urban                       40.3          43.1         43.4          43.6         44.9          46.2         47.5          48.4        49.3         30.3
SOURCE:  Ministry of Education and mission estimates



34                         ANNEX 1
TABLE T-4
EL SALVADOR
PROPOSED FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Basic Education, Cycles I and II (Grades 1-6)
Teachers by Shift
1976-1985                        %
Teachers
Year           Students         Teachers        Ratio         Per Shift
1976            668,000          14,500          46:1            100
Two Shifts      160,000           2,000          80:1             14
One Shift       508,000          12,500          41:1             86
1977            690,000          14,885          46:1            100
Two Shifts      218,400           2,800          78:1             19
One Shift       471,600          12,085          39:1             81
1978            712,800          15,165          47:1            100
Two Shifts      300,000           4,000          75:1             26
One Shift       412,800          11,165          37:1             74
1979            736,300          15,340          48:1            100
Two Shifts      374,400           5,200          72:1             34
One Shift       361,900          10,140          36:1             66
1980            760,600          15,522          49:1            100
Two Shifts      427,939           6,100          70:1             39
One Shift       333,600           9,422          35:1             61
1981            785,700          15,714          50:1            100
Two Shifts      483,000           6,900          70:1             44
One Shift       302,700           8,814          35:1             56
1982            811,600          15,914          51:1            100
Two Shifts      497,000           7,100          70:1             45
One Shift       314,600           8,814          35:1             55
1983            838,400          16,123          52:1            100
Two Shifts      546,000           7,800          70:1             48
One Shift       292,400           8,323          35:1             52
1984            866,100          16,341          53:1            100
Two Shifts      588,000           8,400          70:1             51
One Shift       278,100           7,941          35:1             49
1985            894,700          16,568          54:1            100
Two Shifts      630,000           9,000          70:1             54
One Shift       264,700           7,568          35:1             46
SOURCE: Ministry of Education (ODEPOR) and mission estimates



EL SALVADOR
PROPOSED FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Primary School Teachers:
Needs, Demand and Supply
1978 - 1985
1978         1979         1980         1981         1982       - 1983         1984         1985
Teacher Needs
Enrollment ('000)L.               712.8         736.3        760.6        785.7        811.6        838.4        866.1        894.7
Student/Teacher Ratio 2/           47           48           49            50           51           52           53           54
Teachers                       15,165       15,340       15,522       15,714       15,914       16,123        1G,341       l6,j68
Teacher Demand
Expansion                           -          175           182          192          200          209          218          227
Attrition (3%)                       -          455          460          465          471          477          483          490
TaTAL                               -          630           642          657          671          686          701          717
Teacher Supply                                                                                                                                f
Ciudad Normal                     400           450          450          500          500          550          550          550
Instituto Menendez                 50            50           60           70           80           80           80           80
Private Teacher                     80           80           90           95          100          100          100          100
Training Schools
TOTAL                             530           580          600          665          680          730          730          730
1  Estimated 3.3% annual increase
2/                                                                                                                                   J
-   Increase due to government policy of expanding the number of teachers who are
working two shifts.



EL SALVADOR
PROPOSED FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Public and Private Expenditures in Education, Actual and Projected
(Current Prices for Actual Expenditures, 1977 Prices for Projections)
(Colones '000)
Public Expenditures                  Private Expenditures                 Total Expenditures
Year       Total      Recurrent    Capital    Total    Recurrent    Capital    Total           Recurrent    Capital
1967        57361       56134           1227    13706       n.a.         n.a.         71067       n.a.         n.a.
1968         62659       60910          1749    16416       n.a.         n.a.         79075       n.a.         n.a.
1969         66772       66100           672    18299       n.a.         n.a.         85071       n.a.         n.a.
1970         74883       70188          4695    21387       n.a.         n.a.        96270       n.a.          n.a.
1971       108767        78369         30398    22032       n.a.         n.a.       130799        n.a.         n.a.
1972       108534        90259         18275    16985      15177         1807       125519    105436          20082
1973       115080      103093          11987    14018      12186         1832       129098    115279         13819          a%
1974       142109      131302          10807    18157      15099          3058      160266    146401          13865
197-       167859      144320          23539    20269      17313          2956      188128    161633          26495
1976       229678      188827          40851    24916      21919         2997       254594    210746          43848
1977       278792      220503          58289    29033      24515         4517       307825    245018          62806
1978P,l    245296      202528          42768     n.a.       n.a.         n.a.        n.a.       n.a.           n.a.
1979P,l    2,55545      211642         43903     n.a.       n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.          n.a.
1980,'    266006       221166         44840      n.a.      n.a.          n.a.       n.a.        n.a.          n.a.
1981Pl    277496      231118          46378     n.a.       n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.          n.a.
1982P,l    289526      241792          47735     n.a.       n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.          n.a.
1983P,l    301686       252673         49013      n.a.      n.a.         n.a.        n.a.       n.a.           n.a.
1984PdI    314357       264043         50314      n.a.      n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.          n.a.
1985Pl    327245      275925          51320     n.a.       n.a.         n.a.        n.a.       n.a.           n.a.
1.  Ministry of Education odily,Other Ministries' expenditures amounted to about ¢ 3.0 million in 1977.
P. Projection. Complete projections for the public sector were provided by ODEPOR only for 1982, while for other years
no projections were made for preprimary expenditures and general administrative costs.  The figures in the Table are
estimates of total expenditures based on the percentage of preprimary and administrative costs observed in the past.
SOURCE:  Ministry of Education (ODEPOR), mission estimates



EL SALVADOR
PROPOSED FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Recurrent Expenditures in Formal Public Education, by Level
- (Colones '000, Current Prices)
Level              1967      1968      1969      1970     1971      1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      1978
Total                  52,870   57,589   62,790   66,364   73,386   83,855   97,246   122,162 133,891  174,457  188,344  221,984
Pre-Primary              1,499    1,470    1,616    1,715    1,715    2,419    2,279           3,760   4,358    6,808)
Basic                                                                                                                  )
) 125,181 145,349
- Cycles I, II       35,075   34,894   37,797   37,962   38,736   47,954   48,426    60,755  66,234   85,827)
- Cycle III           2,407    1,774    3,097    3,300    4,500    7,334    9,176    10,829  12,255   16,493)
Secondary                1,240    2,508    3,904    3,727    2,702    3,575    4,448          6,102   6,668    9,037   10,593   13,647
Higher
- Non-University         801    1,411       322       834    3,791    3,002    3,500        3,705   4,415    9,235    7,499    8,328
- University          8,112    9,950   11,650   13,321   14,821   12,996   20,651    28,651  29,759   33,878   33,879   42,288
General Administration 3,736    5,582    4,404    5,505    7,121    6,575    8,766             8,360  10,202   13,179   11,192   12,372
SOURCE:  Ministry of Education (ODEPOR)                                                                                                    |'|
February 1979                                                                                                                               |q



EL SALVADOR
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Recurrent Cost Per Student, By Level, In Public Education 1966-1976
(In Colones, Current Prices)
Level            1966     1967      1968     1969      1970      1971     1972      1973      1974      1975     1976
Pre-Primary              76.9      80.4      78.9     79.4      82.3      75.7    109.1      86.5    111.8    118.1    145.8
Basic
- Cycles I, II         80.0      80.4     79.3      79.9      78.0     75.7      93.1      86.5    103.0    108.0    134.1
Cycle III           154.9    113.9      93.9    120.4    116.0    115.0    140.7    131.6    125.2    126.0    153.0
Secondary               197.8    153.8    328.8    510.9    422.3    266.0    288.5    256.1    286.8    286.2    347.4
- General                 -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -    237.0
- Industrial              -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -    465.0         -
- Teacher Training             -         -        -         -         -        -              -         -    363.0
Higher Education
- Non-University   1,891.0  1,948.8  1,943.7    437.3    987.2  1,821.4  1,678.6  2,034.1  1,891.6  2,166.2  2.821.6
- University        1.657.6  1,690.0  1,830.4  1,997.2  2,063.7  1,400.5            -  1,277.1  1,381.5  1,236.8  1,393.9
SOURCE:  Ministry of Education (ODEPOR)                                                                                    |2|



_ 39 _                               ANNEX 1
TABLE T-9
Page 1 of 2
EL SALVADOR
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Schools, by Department
Replacement      Equipment
Department                New        Extension          Only         Total
Ahuachapan                                     13               3          16
Sonsonate                       1              19               8          28
La Libertad                     7              19              12          38
San Salvador                    2               8               9          19
Chalatenango                    -               9               6          15
Cuscatlan                       1               4               4           9
La Paz                          -              13               9          22
Cabafias                        7              12              18          37
San Vicente                     -               9               4          13
Usulatan                        -              21               6          27
San Miguel                     12              12              10          34
Morazgn                         4               9               4          17
La Union                        5              23               4          32
Santa Ana                      15              20              14          49
TOTAL                          54             191            111          356



'A
N
C' aLa
'a
rAt H
{A                              aaaALaA                 --       '      '*a       A,aA,a       a,         a,,,       aaaaa      aLa      ana,a         .arAaa
4""       -Ca'a               A,, a, a                  -,       ,,,,,         ,A,a'=...,a
1'                   -,         a,,,,,         - -                       -,          - -      a             -,      - - - -                    -.        -  -. a -
A,at     'aA,* a     aCAaiAa           a,    ,-a,a,          Can,'.    LNLaL,'.,-,    ,-'.A    aa,.aa'aAA  ,-,apl,-.            tA,a'A     ,.aaCa.a.a   a
A. 3
-      CA                  Can-a        a,aa.-,Ca       "CC     CL,      -     CL'C      an-a, a     --      Ca-,aa,C,a    a-n-a,..     'a       am             aaa   A,a      *
                                                                                                                                                                                     -
. a 
a
                                                                                                                                                    a  a a-a a-a,,,.,,
44                a'        -a,  a      aCaaCJ-a          a      a*      -                -a*,r       , '                   Ca*a-a               ,aataC,       .-a.CA,aC,Za     4,
A
a
j                           aaaa    aalaa    Ag,',                                '         '''    ''   ''a',                 Za          a       aLaa    aaaaa.a                   4
a     a,,,,,          a a              a        a a      a a a a     ' a     aa.Ia         a           a a      aaaaa          lalasa
A                                                                                                                                                     I
A                                                                                                                                           U         A
A                                                    -      A                     A               A                                          La   -
4,       A                          'A                                                                  9'                                           A.   A
A.       A                         At                                4  C       A          'A                                                              U
o       a                                    A                       CA.       -                       9-                                             -    V
j       5                    -  rA                                           A    A      -           A             A                     'U
z.                       LA      AaAA        A         CA".        !A3
U        AZ        'A,A       AIAa2'                 qA      A      AIM       'aa'3A9       A                                A       V             LG AU  'U
'4     AtA-      *aAaA       A'33iaC         "La      AA-               -      a,4A         CA      t3A            a        La       AA  -        jt'tr 
AA.AAaA                         4      ,A,A       AaDUU      AC       "A             hA                 4t'.&3
                            AAAA   C   rnf   -                       A   aLAOaA                             &A    It
ACOaO     >A.A        AC       o  -A.        a,d4                               CAAA
a  a      a a a a     aaaaa             a      a a               a      a a a a       a      aaaaa         a a  a     a a      aaaaa
-A-       C              'A    n,a"'AC'      -At      'A4'A        aAcaa.aCa   aAC'     AAAAgAg       A,,r'aa
A                                                                                                                               A
p

A                         At                                                                    A
A      A                          A                                          s
A                          A     ''A  A                                                       AS
A                         0A  A        A  A                  -      A'.  A                                                      VA       'U
A       ACLaL.,            L aa                 4      AA' A  A  A               Ala         A                       A       A
A    AA        AA'4        SAC                A  A                                                A%'a   -  A                               a
I                                    A A-A 9                              ".AA" a, AAAAAA.AaA                            A  A I
"'I                       A A Aa 44   -  ALa  A,                           >A               A             4           A  A   'A  AIUAAa  'U  UCLA  A
A'UC4A'CAAAAA  AC C AC                                                          AC  A AA 'A aCa A   A AA -,      A3A               j               Lao
-         3  'aCUC  'A  A'AA.'CS   2         A                I             AU                 -'.
-A-.             ±1  iltijax                       A      U".
5,-IA          A  -                a¶  'AaA                      -  --                     3



ANNEX 1
- 41 -                             TABLE T-10
EL SALVADOR
PROPOSED FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Fellowships
Man/Months
Specialists                                       Total      1980     1981      1982      1983
1/
Curriculum Development -                           12          4         8        -         -
Curriculum Evaluation               1/             12          -        4         8         -
Techniques for Education Research                  12          -         8        4         -
Education Technology           1/                  12          -         6        6         -
Distance Learning Techniques 1/                    12          -         6        6         -
Learning MIodules Development 1          1/        24          2        12        6         4
In-Service Teacher Training Evaluation -           12          -        -         6         6
School Nuclearization                              12          -        6         6         -
Student Guidance                 1/                12          -         -       12         -
Multigrade Teaching Techniques -                   24          -         6       12         6
Textbook Production (short term consultants)    24             2       12        10         -
School Supervision and Administration              24          -        6        12         6
Technical Education
Modular Methodology                                 6          -         3        3         -
Teaching Material Preparation                       6          -         6        -         -
Agro-Industry                                      12          -         8        4         -
Industrial Maintenance                             12          -        8         4         -
Industrial Engineering                             12          -        8         4         -
Tracer and Evaluation System                       12          -        -         -        12
TOTAL                                        252          8      107       103       34
Fellowships
Curriculum Development          (6)                48          -         -       24        24
Distance Learning Techniques  (6)                  48          -        12       24        12
Textbook Production            (12)                72         12        24       24        12
Technical Education             (4)                12          -         -        6         6
TOTAL                                        180        12        36        78       54
- UNDP may finance



EL SALVADOR
POURTh EDUCATION PROJECT
SOwoooo of Prioct Cost
(Colonee 'DOE)
NUMBER OF                                    COTSTRUCTIOlbook                                                                                  Techril
Boildiog                      Pr-fee.ioo.I                                     Prlotiog &         Te-oh-r      doofetooce &       Project
OShoolo      Classroos   StUdent Place  Constooction    Oitt  Worko            Pee-         Poroitoro         E,ueOPnt    Diributioo           Troifio      Fellomohipe      m1tioo             t'000           US$'000
BASIC RURAL EDUCATION
Soo Schtools
SEngir Story                                  51             102            4,080         2,594.3           518.9            498.1         419.1             112.2
Bitt-SLot-                                     3              19              760           853.3           170.7            163.8          69.3              20.9                               _
Stcl  Stor                                   134             323           12 920         8,003.8        1,600.8           1 ,36.7       1,289.8             355.3
88o0ti-StoEy                                  16             124            4,60          6,415.9        1,283.2           1 231.9         591.0             332.4                                                                _
PRottiog Sohoolo
Rpr-dloo "CEt-ral" Sohoolo                    41              41            1,640          5.837,4        1,167.5          1,120.8         774.7             663.5              -
Re-oeuipping Only                            111             560           22,400              -              -                -             -               616.0                                               -          1.210.0
7'eacher Tra-ioig Pro-gn                          -               -                -            715.0           71.5            125.8          71.5            1.828.5              _             loso          1,225 0        3,500.0
SrI,,r Sopo-oloion Progr                                                                          -              - _-                            -              250.0                               -             250.0               -
CoorirotI-    Development Pro-rg                  -                                               -              -                 -           20.0              230.0              .             625.0           475 0               -
Totboolk Prodorr±oo Pro-ram                       -               -                -            533.5           53.4              58.7          53,4           1.95D.0         1.675 0            325.0           400.0        2g808.0
SUBTOTAL                                   356           1.169           46.400         24,953.2        4,864.0          4,735.8       3,288.8            6 358.8         1.675.0          L050.           2.350.         7 51080           56 78376        22 715.0
POST SKCONDARY EDUCATION
soo  Rgo..l eThoirol Rosttoto                    1               7              240          2,048.9          409.8             393-4         204.9           1,445.0                             _650.0                        3498             5 501.S         2 20..7
TUBAL P0OJECT BABE COST (Jly 1979)                                                                                                          3,493.7           7,803.       8  1 675.0          1 050.0          ,8000.0         859.8           62 289.4        '274915,7
PYBICL *7O0INGNCIES                                                                                         4,114.8                           349.4             780,3            1607.5          105.0           300.0           786.0           6 683.0         2 641.2
Aerena8eIl                                                                                                                                187,              107.            ROY,             10%             107,           181              80.8%           10.63
MoEnt                                                                                                  923hN,E                           822.4           1,753.1            390.6           254.1           5688.        1 729.2           15 058.4         6 025.4
OeorenRB8O                                                                     2~~~~~~~~~                                 ~     ~~~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~ ~       ~~~       ~      ~~~37  21.41  28.42.  21.27,  22%  17%  2081  21 9%  21 92
TOA  PROJECT COST (COLONRS)                                                                                51.072.0                         4.666.0          AU 335.0         2 233.0          I 409.0         3 861 0       10.375 0           83 951.0              -
TOTAL PR07ECT COST (US$ '000)                                                                               20.429.0                        1 866.0           4 134.0            893.0           564.0          1 544.0       4 150 0                 -         33.5O.0
Pebronry 1979



EL SALVADOR
FOURTH EDICATION PROJECT
Contingency Allowances
(Colones *000)
Textbook
Printing &              Teacher          Technical Assistance          Project
Cosstruntion            Furniture               Egoipme.t            Distribution             Training            and Fellowships        Inple-entatton              Total
Local     Foreign      Local      Fornign      Loal      Foreign      Local      Foccign     Local      Fo-eign      Local      F ig         L          Foreign     Local      Forein        TOTAL
13%/=      35/.        35%        65%                                                                     O 10,  90%  100108%                952          5/        58%         42%
Total PFoject Bone Coot (July 1979)    24,314.6   13,092.5    1,222.8    2,270.9           780.4    7,023.4       1,340.0     335.0      1,050.0       0           0        3,000.0     7,466,8    393.0    36,174.6   26,114.8    62,289.4
--Enclodong Continge-tica
Phyo Ical Contingencico                   2,674.6    1,440.2        122.3       227.1        78.0      702.3        134.0       33.5        105.0      0           0          300.0        746.7      39.3     3,860.6    2,742.4       6,603.0
(Peentage)                               (11)        (11)        (10)        (10)        (10)        (10)         (10)      (10)         (10)                  0            (10)        (10)      (10)            -           -       (18.6)
Total Project Cn.L--Oo-lading            26,989.2   14,532.7       1,345.1   2,498.0       858.4    7,725.7       1,474,0      340.5     1,155.0       0           0        3,300.0      8,213.5     432.3   40,035,2   28,857.2    68,892.4   W
Physocal Cntingencis
Prie Continge-cies                       6,207.5    3,342.5         322.8      499.6      206.0    1,545.1         324.3       66.3        254.1      0           0          561.0      1,642.7       86.5    8,957.4    6,101.0    15.058.4
(Peccn-tage3                             (23)        (23)         (24)       (20)        (24)        (20)         (22)      (18)         (22)       0          0            (17)        (20)       (20)            -          -       (21.9)
Total Proj ct Co.t--Icludiug             33,197.0   17,875.0       1,668.0   2,998.0    1,064.0    9,271.0        1,798.0      435.0     1,409.0       0           0        3,861.0      9,856.0      519.0   48,992,0   34,959.0    83,951.0
physical & Price Continge-cies
IT$ 000                               13,279.0    7,150.0         667.0   1,199.0       426.0    3,708.0         719.0      174.0       564.0       0           0        1,544.0      3,942.0      208.0   19,597.0   13,984,0    33,580.0
FPbeuary 1978



EL SALVADOR
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Financing Breakdown. by Year and Category of Expenditure
(Colones '000)
1980                            1981                             1982                            1983                            TOTAL
Bank      Govt.      Total      Bank      Govt.       Total      Bank      Govt.      Total      Bank       Govt.      Total      Bank       Govt.      Total
Construction
(Bank--66%)                           4,320    2,225        6,545      9,543    4,916    14,459    12,189    6,279    18 468            7,678    3,955       11,633    33,730   17,375    51,105
Furniture
(Bank--85%)                              515        90        605        934        165      1,099      1,418       250      1,668       1,103       195      1 298      3,970        700      4,670
Equipment
(Bank--85%)                            1,148       202      1,350      2,073        366      2,439      3,138       554      3,692       2,430       429      2,859      8,789    1,551    10,340
Textbook Printing & Distribution
(Bank--85%)                              329        58        387        543         96        639        593       105        698         434        77        511       1,899       336      2,235
Teacher Training
(Bank--100lO)                            243         -        243        403          -        403        440          -       440         324         -        324       1,410         -      1.410
Technical Assistance
(Bank--100%)                             517         -        517      1,230          -      1,230      1,476          -     1,476         637         -        637       3,860         -      3,860
Project Implementation
(Bank--75%,  60%, 40%, 20%)            1,700       567      2,267      1,804    1,203        3,007      1,317    1,975       3,292         363    1,451       1,814       5,184    5,196    10 380
TOTAL                                     8,772    3,142    11,914    16,530    6,746    23,276    20,571    9,163    29,734               12,969    6107        19 076    58 842   25, 158    84 000
US$,000  (rounded)                     3,500    1,270       4,770       6,600    2,710       9,310      8,220    3,680    11,900         5 180    2,450        7 630    23,500   10.100    33 600
February 1979
I-.E



H     H      4   Ll  o      H   N               -':       i  H          n   S<gW  H                                                       H   wi1  n><g¢~1 
Db    lb     PP         rOO r- e   g                                                                                                                                              p. P¢ O> e      pn O o n     w nO
lb       H   -       o       R    -         nb lbbbl    lb  lb,. ob                                                       lb      0   lb     H ,.  P!= h3
I   , I   | |   I   lb   -   lb l    lb   P P   0         POt        (l  lb   lb                                                                           l  br
lb P>      NE                 lb   p   l         PP           -                              Nf wo                       lb       -   Ne    04        -         l
lb~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4H  lb .tllH                             ,p lb                   It pt p. p oP  p. lb  S lb  0         0 P      0 
It~ ~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  04  It                               1,, -0  Pb  tt    -   00  t4 lb  S S             ;8 ; '     
lb~ ~~~ ~~~~ ~~ ~~~ '-                             H .                  H          '                   Hlb         HHHHHH  -  
II           I   tt       *        '
_b    -   lb             4 _
_O   _l        lb I.    lb1              blb                                                                                       -              1-
_~~~~H _b                                        N                                                                                lb  lb biI   
_ _ - ~~I'III, lb-                                                                                                            P 
NH           _    H   _                             1 -                    H!  lb                                                                           l; 4
_   It   NP    lb                                                         rP
~~~~~lb  lbl    ;O                             -,                                                                                                                             00
_~~                            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      H. _bb



ANNEX 1
- 46 -                             TABLE T-15
EL SALVADOR
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ '000)
Accumulated    Undisbursed
Fiscal Year      Quarter    Disbursement   Disbursement       Balance
1980            3               -               -               -
4            700             700           22,800
1981            1           1,400           2,100          21,400
2          1,400           3,500           20,000
3          1,600           5,100           18,400
4          1,600           6,700           16,800
1982            1           1,700           8,400           15,100
2          1,700          10,100           13,400
3          1,800          11,900           11,600
4          1,800          13,700            9,800
1983            1           2,000          15,700            7.800
2          2,000          17,700            5,800
3          1,800          19,500            4,000
4          1,200          20,700            2,800
1984            1           1,200          21,900            1,600
2            900          22,800              700
3            700          23,500



EL SALVADOR
STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL EDUCATION SYSTEM
1977
SECONDARY
BASIC EDUCATION                           - I            EDUCATION                             HIGHER EDUCATION           |
|.   FIRSTCYCLE   |    1*  SECONDCYCLE  -j   L,   THIRDCYCLE
ACADEMIC                   NON-UNIVERSITY
l             ~~~~TEACHER TRAINING
PEDAGOGIC                              {1         -
NASOCI AL WO RK
COMMERCE               -0 0-
-E1 -[14-_1 -                 ~~~TECHNOLOGY
INDUSTRIAL
AGES  _                                  AGRICULTURE
AGRIULTURL                  0     -i        -E
NURSING
HOTEL AND TOURISM                                2 
[                       ~~~~~~~~NAVIGATION AND FISHING
HEALTH                    1}{0:1                                            >
HOTEL AND TOURISM
HOME ECONOMICS               }     {-0
TECHNOLOGY
NAVIGATION & FISHERY           f     -E
-4D -Ea -0       -       ~ ~~~~UNIVERSITY
FINE ARTS                          CAHLCUIEST|
KINDERGARTEN                                                                                                                            NAINLNVEST|
GRDE      l1      2        3       4       5       6        7       8        9          1 0      1 1     1 2              l        2       3       4        5
7       8       9       10       tt     12       13      14-      15          16      17       18              19       20      21      22       23
Source: Ministry of Education (ODEPOR)                                                                                                              World Bank 16570          (|



EL SALVADOR
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
1978
Minister
Vice ministe       Vice Minister
for Education        for Culture
I    LeqlAd-isry                                                                      Planning and 
|        Office        r                                                             ,~1Oganiation Office|
io,~~~ Adm= mfo    tr                                         for Ed ti                          f.   T
i   Supply                    ofCulssmintion                  Pedagogical
j   Finance  l         -| ~~Cultural Heritage |              Basic Eduication  |          |     Production    l            |     Remoideling |
i  Personnel    l   H   Heritage  l    i       Educatinn    l          -|    T~~Oeratinsc    l           -    Administration|
.0-
2   Services  l        _|~Physicul Education|           _   Aduli Education                      Audiovisual    |                Community
and Sports    l   l           l            |      ~~~~~~~Aids                     Motivution
WVorld Bank - 19843
Source: Ministry of Education



EL SALVADOR
PRIMARY EDUCATION STUDENT FLOW
1973 - 1978
COUNTRY                                                 URBAN                                                  RURAL
Years   1973   1974   1975  1976  1977  1978                   1973   1974  1975  1976   1977  1978                    973   1974  1975  1976   1977  1978
Enrollment                                              Enrollment                                          Enrollment
189,381
65%
123,179
98,381                   52%                                                                                  99,973  100%
100%                                                                                                                                                                  4-
44%                    89,345
83,463                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
37%
69,92532                                                                6%6086%
61,383                                                 61,095                  6396208
56,655
50.856                                 5       7,4"
45,787                                 511742
42,072                                                                                 334172
II               ~~~~~32,607                             24%
J  J      J      ~~~~19,311        ~         ~          
Grades    1       2      3       4      5      6                  1      2      3       4      5      61                         2      3      4       5      6
Source: Ministry of Education                                                                                                       World Bank- 19842



EL SALVADOR
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ENROLLMENT IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INSTITUTES
1977
Participation                                                                                                                                                          Total
Group Age    Gross °                                                                                                                                     Level of Eclucation    Enrollments
19 24         7%                                                                                                                                         Higher Education           30,3001]
1,000
2.030
3,050
5,100
8.020
11,100
16-18      22.8%                                                                                                                                         Secondary Education        64,842
15.809
RURAL                                                               URBAN                                                     20,890
27,188
Basic Education          823,030
13-15      42.5%                                                                                                                                           (Grades 1.9)
37,9680
43,702
51,220
58,374
7-12       88.4%                                                                                                                                                                   89,925
90,222
110,229
138,757
222,633
~~I               I     I .  l  l  l  l  l  l                                                  
120   110   100   90    80    70   60    50   40    30    20    10    0    10    20    30   40    50    60   70    80    90   100
in Thousands
L/ Estimated                                                                                                                                              World Bank- 19844
Source: Ministry of Education
X-'



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
EL SALVADOR
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Reports Related to the Sector
A-1       Plan Nacional "Bienestar para Todos" (1978-1982)
(Ministerio de Planificacion y Coordination del Desarrollo
Economico y Social)
A-2       El Salvador Education Sector Analysis - 1977 Executive Summary -
Parts I and II - USAID
A-3       El Salvador Education Sector Analysis - 1975-1977
Analytical Working Documents Nos. 2, 3, 6,8 and 11
A-4       Estudio de la Educacion Secundaria y Superior - 1977
(Center for Economic Studies - California - USA)
A-5       Analisis Sectorial de la Educacion - Documentos Estadisticos
Nos. 2, 3 y 5. ODEPOR - 1975-1977
A-6       El Salvador Datos e Indicadores para el Area Educacion y
Desarrollo Rural - UNESCO - 1978
A-7       Indicadores Economicos y Sociales - Ministerio de
Planificacion - 1977
A-8       Plan Quinquenal del Ramo de Educacion 1977-1982.  ODEPOR - 1976
A-9       Memoria de Labores - 1977-1978 - Ministerio de Educacion - 1978
A-10      El Salvador - Education Sector Memorandum - Draft 1976 - World Bank
A-li      Ley de Desarrollo de la Comunidad - Ministerio del Interior - 1978
A-12      Mapa Escolar - Sumario - 1978
Reports Related to the Project
B-1       Government Request for Bank Financing IV Education Project -
September, 1978
B-2       Curriculum for Basic Education - Educacion Estetica - Grades 7-9
B-3       In-service Teacher Training - ODEPOR



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
B-4        Plan Nacional del Libro Escolar - Direccion Servicios Tecnico-
Pedagogico - 1978
B-5       Equipment List for Rural Schools - 1978
B-6        Teacher Salary Scale
B-7        Upgrading Teacher's Aspiration - Results of a Research
B-8       Artes Manuales - Guia para su Desarrollo - Ministerio de
Educacion, 1978
Working Papers
C-1       El Salvador IV Education Project, Documento de Trabajo, 1979



I BROD 14123
~~~pp~~~~~~~r.  -,           I                                                   I' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH  1979
RO~~~~OO   ER45                      RH¶EC ~~~~~~~~~Mooo r9Q'                                                                                                                                                              JAMAICA
-~~                               Th Eooo0~~~~~                           .~~        -                                                                                                                                    ICE,                __
4CA 23 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CT
S. C,:[.b.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA C TA. .-p
A,  00E1,,                           N..S. C-I,P~bo,,  /T   4ri           4Colp  '                                                                                               11 12C
4ifiddk- d                                               4                                                                         C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e GOCb~~55ctPa    )C
A~~~IA  ."'  CACCeECCA  ,,                                                                                                                                                 200~~~~~~~~~D4 _RA~
Ah.                                                                                                            C A  B A  N A SM  0R AZ AN                                                           IPOIIOJ
B                                                    -I---I-  CAILUCAS                                                                                                       El 51,0050 -o L          MACkP IC)5I'9
1~~~~~~~~~~hnIgN\O 7RO                                                  LUI
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~,,d.  B.
0  0     A   E                            10,0              3                 5
L I                                           A                                                                                          d. I.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RO101000BR CfOROC A  OE BlE  00 COAAdYI,OA OCCOC
L~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~IE
911C'         0145'                      P 20                     9115                     910(18004'                                          01301'91111                                         880t                       07I4



