Document of
The World Bank    FILE  COPY
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2589-ES
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
June 8, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -   Colon (¢)
US$1             =   ¢ 2.50
Colones ( )      =   US$0.40
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ANTEL           The National Telecommunications Agency
CABEI          Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CACM            Central American Common Market
CEL            Lempa River Hydroelectric Commission
CENCAP         National System of Agricultural Training
CENTA           National Center of Agriculture and Livestock Technology
COFINTA        Agricultural Land Bank
CREA            Center for the Production of Teaching-Learning Materials
DAE             Directorate of Educational Architecture
FSDVM           Salvadorian Foundation for Development of Low-Cost Housing
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
ITV            Instructional Television Program of the Ministry of
Education
ITCA           Central American Technological Institute
ITESS           San Salvador Technological Institute
NVTC            National Vocational Training Council
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
USAID           U.S. Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EL SALVADOR
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:            Republic of El Salvador
AMOUNT:              US$23.5 million.
TERMS:               Repayment in 20 years including a grace period of five
years at an interest of 7.9 percent per annum.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTIONI:        The main objective of the project is to assist the Gov-
ernment in carrying out principal elements of its
education and training strategy set forth in the 1978-
1982 Third Education Development Plan. They include
expanding basic education and training opportunities
for children and adults in rural communities, improving
the quality and efficiency of rural school administration
and supervision, expanding in-service training programs
for basic education teachers and school directors, ex-
panding the production of textbooks and teaching material
for basic education, and establishing a new post-secondary
technological institute to train technicians in selected
priority specializations needed for the country's indus-
trial development.
The project consists of construction, replacement or
expansion and equipping and furnishing of 245 schools
in rural communities, equipping and furnishing of an
additional 1ll such schools; equipping and furnishing
new facilities being constructed at the National Teacher
Training School and provision of supplies for the pro-
duction of teacher training material; production of
about one million basic education textbooks and teach-
ing guides; construction, equipping, and furnishing of
a new post-secondary technical institute; and technical
assistarLce for the physical, educational and administrative
aspects of project implementation and the operation of pro-
ject facilities.
The project entails no special risks.
This docunment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents mray not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ESTIMATED COST:                                               (US$ Million)
Local Foreign Total
Basic Education
New Construction, Replacement
and Expansion of Schools           9.1    6.0       15.1
Equipment for Existing Schools    --*    0.2           0.2
In-Service Teacher Training and
Evaluation                         1.7    0.9       2.6
Textbooks and Teaching Materials  2.0    1.0           3.0
School Administration and
Supervision, and Curriculum
Development                        0.2    0.2        0.4
San Miguel Technological
Institute                          1.0    1.0       2.0
Technical Assistance                 --      1.2       1.2
Project Administration               0.5    --*        0.5
Base Cost                      14.5   10.5      25.0
Contingencies
Physical                             1.5    1.1        2.6
Price                                3.6    2.4        6.0
Total Costs                    19.6   14.0      33.6
FINANCING PLAN:                                              (US$ Million)
Local  Foreign  Total
Bank                                9.5    14.0    23.5
Government                         10.1      --      10.1
Total Project Cost           19.6    14.0    33.6
PROJECTED
DISBURSEMENTS:                                   US$ Million Equivalent
Bank FY            1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Annual             0.7       6.0      7.0      7.0      2.8
Cumulative         0.7       6.7    13.7    20.7    23.5
APPRAISAL REPORT:   Report No. 2458a-ES, dated May 21, 1979.
* Under US$0.1 million.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the follolwing report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$23.5 million to the Republic of El Salvador to help
finance a Fourth Education Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report on El Salvador (2287-ES) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 7, 1979. The report is based on the findings
of an economic mission to El Salvador in April 1978 and was updated based on
discussions held with the Government in March 1979. The main findings of
the report are summarized below. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
3.        El Salvador has registered substantial economic gains since 1960.
During 1960-78 the economy's growth rate averaged 5.2 percent a year, and in
spite of rapid population growth, raised per capita incomes by 45 percent.
During this period, exports and investment have been the major engines of
growth. Exports rose from 22 percent of GDP in 1960-62 to 34 percent of
GDP by 1976-78. At the same time, investment growth outstripped output
growth and raised the investment/GDP ratio from 14 percent in 1960-62 to
20 percent in 1976-78.
4.        Nevertheless, El Salvador remains among the poorest countries in
Latin America. It still has one of the lowest income levels (US$570 in 1977) 1/
among the countries in the Western Hemisphere. It has the smallest land area
in Central America and the highest population density (205 per square kilo-
meter), with only a third of a hectare of arable land per capita. These
density ratios are comparable to those of the Caribbean and India. Nutritional
standards are low; protein and calorie deficiencies are common. Roughly 68
percent of the dwellings are without piped water and 55 percent without
electricity. Income and land ownership are highly concentrated.
5.        Because of its already high population density, rapid population
growth, at about 3 percent a year, is the country's most fundamental problem.
The country has, however, reached that stage where both birth and death rates
have begun to decline. The Government is trying to accelerate the fertility
decline through a family planning program which has been relatively successful.
1/   World Bank Atlas Methodology.



By mid-1977, an estimated 20 percent of the fertile female population was being
reached and the Government hopes to raise coverage to 30 percent by 1982, a
target which may be surpassed. The program has support from USAID, the United
Nations Family Planning Agency, and the Planned Parenthood Federation.
6.        As a result of past rapid population growth, the rate of labor
absorption is now a serious socio-economic problem.  Limited opportunities
for increased agricultural employment and the return of Salvadorian migrants
from Honduras taxed the employment creation capacity of the economy in the
1970s. Even with manufacturing employment expanding at about 4 percent a
year, a significant portion of new employment took place in the informal
urban sector, which often provides incomes only at subsistence levels.
7.        Although agriculture directly provides about one-fourth of GDP,
employment for one-half of the economically active population, and two-thirds
of export earnings, living conditions and incomes in rural areas--where 60
percent of the population resides--are considerably worse than in the cities.
In addition, arable land is limited with about 2-3 hectares per agricultural
worker. As a result of land limitations and rural-urban income differentials,
migration to the cities is expected to accelerate in the next few years.
8.        Manufacturing, which accounts for about one-fifth of GDP but only
one-tenth of the employed labor force, is highly concentrated in the San
Salvador area. Manufacturing production and employment fluctuated during
1960-78, particularly after 1969 when the conflict with Honduras resulted in
the loss of the Honduran market, but real value added in the sector averaged
7.1 percent yearly over the period. Manufacturing exports to the CACM, however,
have now reached a stage of diminishing opportunities for easy regional import
substitution, which, given the growing labor force and limited agricultural
resource base, creates the need of developing manufactured exports to third
market countries in order to absorb the additions to the labor force.
Government Development Policies
9.        While the past role of the public sector in the economy was limited,
the Government is now adopting a more active development posture. This is
reflected in both the increased level of Government expenditures and more
development-oriented policies, particularly for agriculture and manufacturing.
During 1960-72, Government expenditures (about 12 percent of GDP) closely
matched revenues. In the last few years, however, revenues and expenditures
have increased rapidly, reaching 15-16 percent of GDP, with most of the in-
crease allocated to capital outlays. Since 1973, public fixed investment in
virtually all sectors has recorded substantial real increases, although the
largest increases have taken place in power, transport, and telecommunications,
where the absorptive capacity is highest. Social and directly productive in-
vestments, as well as financial investment for housing, however, have also grown.
10.       While agricultural policies during the 1960s were mainly concerned
with export promotion, they have been recently more concerned with land distri-
bution, small farmer incomes, and increasing the output of staple food crops.



-3-
In May 1975, the Congress passed El Salvador's first comprehensive land
reform law. Efforts to implement a major land reform project in 1976, however,
failed because of strong resistance from large landowners and were followed
by rising social tensions. The administration which took office in 1977
has redirected its land distribution efforts to a new institution (COFINTA),
which will purchase land and redistribute it to small farmers (with a target
of about 100,000 has. by 1982). COFINTA will receive a Government contribution
of US$40 million over the next five years, supplementing these resources with
domestic and foreign credits. At the same time, the Government has developed
programs (including projects for integrated rural development in the Departments
of Chalatenango and Morazan) to raise living conditions in the Northern Zone,
where a large proportion of the very small farms are located.
11.       Industrial policy during the 1960s and early 1970s promoted manu-
factured exports within the Common Market. As export growth to this market
slowed, the Government made efforts to stimulate labor-intensive exports to
third countries through fiscal incentives, free trade zones, and improved
services to industry. An Export Development Law, which offers substantial
fiscal incentives to export industries, was passed in 1974. The first free
zone, located in the outskirts of San Salvador, attracted a number of plants,
some of them foreign industries with labor-intensive assembling processes.
These efforts, however, have not yet been very successful, partly because of
a general slowdown in private investment (see para. 13 below) and partly
because of the industrialists' orientation to the CAGM.
12.       To improve urban living conditions, public housing agencies have pro-
vided about 25,000 housing units for low- and medium-income households during
1973-78, complemented with additional assistance to community development
projects. A private organization, Fundacion Salvadorena de Desarrollo y Vivienda
Minima (FSDVM), has also become a major provider of low-cost housing and community
development in cooperation with the Government and the Bank Group. By 1978,
FSDVM had planned, designed, and assisted in the construction of about 6,000
serviced sites. Further Government efforts are underway to improve housing
conditions and incomes in San Salvador and several major cities by constructing
over 60,000 urban housing units during 1978-82, by providing land, housing credit
and services to over 10,000 of the lowest income families, and by providing credit
and training; the latter for both informal sector entrepreneurs and urban workers.
Recent Economic Developments
13.       During 1976 and 1977, sharp increases in coffee prices significantly
improved the balance of payments and fiscal situation. As Government revenues
increased, public investment expanded significantly.  Real GDP growth at 4.5
percent a year in 1976-77, however, was below the 5.5 percent a year recorded
during 1970-75. This was the result of a drought that reduced agricultural
output and a slowdown in private investment primarily because of a low investor
confidence in the wake of rising violence. Over the last few years a number of
prominent local and foreign businessmen as well as Government officials,
political leaders, clergymen, students and peasants have been killed or
kidnapped. Inflation accelerated to 12 percent in 1977 compared to 7 percent
in 1976, owing to sharply increased prices of drought-affected basic grains;
the high level of liquidity brought about by the large coffee export earnings;
and rising import prices. The balance of payments' current account in 1976-77
was in virt:ual equilibrium, recovering from the unusually high deficits in



1974 and 1975 which resulted from the slack in foreign demand and fast rising
import prices. The Central Government budget was in surplus in 1977 as the
total tax burden increased from 12 percent of GDP in 1975 to about 17 percent
in 1977.
14.       The economic situation was less favorable in 1978.  Real GDP
growth is estimated at about 4.4 percent owing to slower growth of export
volumes and investment, and a decline in coffee prices. The inflation rate
increased slightly to 13 percent. In the first half year, export and fiscal
receipts deteriorated sharply because the Salvadorian Coffee Company withheld
coffee sales, on the expectation of a future price rise. Although coffee
sales were resumed in September, the balance of payments showed a large
current account deficit (about US$240 million, or 8 percent of GDP). Foreign
exchange reserves, however, increased by about US$29 million as external
borrowing, much of it by the Central Bank, accelerated. Central Government
finances also deteriorated; current savings declined as wages and transfers
rose, and lower coffee tax receipts, partly due to the postponement of coffee
sales, led to a drop in revenue buoyancy.
Future Prospects and Development Programs
15.       In the longer term, even under the most favorable assumptions
regarding fertility declines, the population of El Salvador is expected to be
at least 1.6 times its present size by the year 2000. A population of this
magnitude will place severe pressures on agricultural land, water resources
and public services, and greatly increase the demand for urban jobs. Not
only must El Salvador increase agricultural productivity rapidly, it must--at
the same time--rapidly expand manufactured exports if it is to grow satis-
factorily and provide productive employment for its increasing labor force.
Furthermore, Government programs need to focus on strategies to expand the
coverage of basic public services and further reduce population growth.
16.       The medium-term outlook is closely related to export growth,
basically that of coffee and manufactured exports, and to the investment
prospects. While coffee prices are not likely to reach 1977 levels during the
next few years, export volume is expected to increase slowly. Manufactured
exports will depend on CACM prospects and the effective promotion of labor-
intensive, manufactured exports to non-CACM countries. Public investment is
expected to grow faster than GDP and increase its share of total fixed invest-
ment. Private investment trends, however, will be influenced most by the
political climate. On the basis of the present prospects for export and
investment growth and an expected recovery in agricultural production, GDP is
expected to increase at only 4.5 percent a year during 1979-82.  While the
Government is determined to expand exports as fast as possible, and intends to
reduce the growth of consumer imports through tight monetary and fiscal
measures, the current account deficits will likely be larger than in the past
because of increasing imports of capital goods and intermediate products, and
the prospects for deterioration in the terms of trade. Thus, foreign credits
will be needed in larger quantity than has been the case up until now.
17.       The Government has recently published a 1978-82 Development Plan.
The Plan proposes significant investments in infrastructure and larger credit
availabilities for agriculture and industry, but also increased investments
in housing, education, health, water and sewerage. Taking into account the



- 5 -
status of the various projects and the country's financial and administrative
capacity, a. scaled-down public investment program (fixed and financial), which
totals about US$2.5 billion equivalent is projected by Bank staff for 1978-82.
About 71 peircent or US$1.8 billion represents fixed investments, of which
physical infrastructure amounts to US$0.8 billion, social investments, US$0.6
billion, and the productive sectors, the remainder. This distribution repre-
sents a change from earlier patterns that allocated larger percentage alloca-
tions for physical infrastructure. However, actual investments may show a
higher infrastructure component, since these are sectors where executing
capacity is well established.. Given the large increase in planned public
investment, the Government is now considering new revenue measures to increase
public savings, which will be affected during 1979-82 by the decline in coffee
prices.
External Assistance
18.       As of December 31, 1977, the country's external debt outstanding
and disbursed repayable in foreign currency amounted to US$265.9 million,
or 9.4 percent of GDP. The public debt service ratio was 4 percent in
1976, rose to 6 percent in 1977 because of some prepayment of existing debt,
and is estimated at about 4 percent for 1978. In terms of the sectoral
thrust of lending during 1950-78 by the principal external agencies apart
from the Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has lent US$266.4
million, mainly for power, water and sewerage and agricultural credit; the
Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) US$150.8 million,
mainly for industry and infrastructure projects with a regional impact;
and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) US$64.2 million
mostly for agriculture, basic education, health, housing, and industry.
19.       In the next several years, the country is likely to need foreign
credits in larger quantities than it has traditionally borrowed. The fall
in coffee prices and the expected slow growth in crucial private investment
in manufact:uring, with resulting limited prospects for accelerating some
manufactured exports, means that El Salvador will be a foreign exchange
constrained economy over the next few years. Our balance of payments and
growth projections indicate that the debt service ratio could rise to about
13 percent by the mid-1980s because of the increased borrowing. While the
relative share of commercial borrowing is expected to increase, our projec-
tions also expect an acceleration in El Salvador's total borrowing from
multilateral and bilateral lenders. In view of the low level of external
debt and debt service, El SaLlvador is considered to be creditworthy for
this additi.onal borrowing.
20.       Nievertheless, the serious imbalance between limited natural
resources and continued rapid population growth, the substantial rural
and urban poverty, the strorLg dependence of the industrial sector on
imported inputs, and problems in developing dynamic manufactured exports
limit the country's capacity to borrow abroad on conventional terms and
indicate the need for as much long-term and official finance as can be
marshalled.  Under these circumstances, if domestic savings--which at 19
percent of GDP in 1976-78 are relatively high for a country of El Salvador's
income level--are to be complemented by a reasonable proportion of external
capital at the same time as social projects with a low foreign expenditure
component are undertaken, of:ficial external assistance in excess of the
foreign exchange component of individual projects is called for.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.       El Salvador has to date received eighteen Bank loans and four IDA
credits totalling US$216.4 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of April 30, 1979, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       At the end of 1977 the Bank Group held 28.2 percent of the US$265.9
million external public debt outstanding and disbursed repayable in foreign
currency. The Bank Group's share of total public debt service in 1977 was
9.3 percent, and is expected to remain about the same through the mid-1980s.
23.       In the past, the Bank Group assisted El Salvador in the development
of its infrastructure, through projects in highways, power and telecommunica-
tions. Together with IDB and CABEI, the Bank assisted the development of El
Salvador's arterial highway system. A close relationship has evolved
between the Bank and El Salvador's public power agency, Comision Ejecutiva
del Rio Lempa (CEL), since its establishment, enabling the Bank to contribute
significantly to the institution building efforts of CEL management.
Similarly, the Bank's efforts to strengthen the institutional capacity of
the national telecommunications agency (ANTEL) have helped improve its
organization, and facilitated the rapid expansion of the agency's services.
24.       Bank Group lending for the social sectors has been much less than
that of IDB and USAID, principally because of the Salvadorian's preference
for the softer lending terms offered by these agencies. Nevertheless, the
Bank Group is now playing an important role in the social sectors and four of
the six most recent operations have been for education and urban development.
Projects currently under consideration for Bank loans include urban development
(squatter upgrading, serviced sites, small business credit) and urban water
supply and sanitation. These projects would help El Salvador develop a broad
program of urban improvement addressed primarily to the lowest income groups.
In addition, the Bank Group is considering projects which would help to meet
the growing requirements for industrial development and employment. Projects
in these sectors include port and freight terminal development, geothermal
power, road maintenance and industrial credit. The Government has so far met
its requirements for external finance for agriculture and rural development
largely through loans from IDB and USAID. Nevertheless, the Government's
investment program provides for an expansion of its activities in these
areas, and the Bank has begun considering the possibility of loans for feeder
roads and rural development in the economically depressed north-eastern part
of the country.
25.       IFC has made two investments in El Salvador.  The first a
US$140,000 loan made in 1959 to Industrias Textiles, S.A., has been fully
repaid. The second, a US$233,000 equity investment and US$600,000 loan to
Hoteles de Centroamerica, S.A., in 1969, was for a hotel project that was
completed in 1972. IFC is exploring possibilities of additional investments
to encourage private enterprise in El Salvador.



PART I:'I - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background
26.       The high rate of growth and the young age structure of the popula-
tion of El Salvador necessitate a rapid expansion of educational opportuni-r
ties to prepare new entrants into the labor force for employment in a modern
environment. In the last 25 years the population has doubled and the
proportion uander 15 years of age increased from 43 percent to 46 percent.
At present, about 38 percent of the population 10 years or older is illi-
terate. Illiteracy is particularly high in the rural sector (51 percent)
and, together with the low level of educational attainment, constitutes a
barrier to the diffusion of modern techniques in agricultural and livestock
production. There is a large and growing need to expand formal as well as
non-formal education particuLarly in the rural areas.
The Formal Education Sector
27.       The formal education system includes nine years of basic education
equally divided into three cycles; and three years of diversified secondary
education (grades 10-12) which permits specialization in academic or various
vocational subjects. Higher education is provided by two autonomous univer-
sities, one national and one private, and by various post-secondary institu-
tions. The Ministry of Education and Culture is responsible for administra-
tion of all levels except university education.
28.       The Government began systematic planning of the development of
its education and training sector in the 1960s, with the adoption of the
(1968-72) First Education Development Plan. The First Plan had ambitious
aims: (a) restructuring of the education system to provide nine years of
basic education free of charge for every child, and diversified secondary
school programs rather than the traditional academic courses; (b) streng-
thening administration and education supervision; (c) providing low-cost
learning materials and introducing educational television; (d) rationalizing
the teacher training system; and (e) increasing educational opportunities
for the rural population. Although basic education expanded rapidly (6
percent per annum) under the First Plan, it covered only 65 percent of the
relevant age group (7-15 years) by 1972, and the imbalance in educational
opportunities between urban and rural areas was not corrected. Also, the
diversification of secondary education, the revision of curricula and the
provision of low-cost learning materials was not completed.  Nevertheless,
basic improvements in the institutional framework for formal education were
established with the regionalization of school supervision, the introduction
of educational television, and the establishment in the Ministry of Educa-
tion of the Technical and Pedagogic Studies Department, the Textbook Pro-
duction Workshop, and the Office of Planning and Coordination.



- 8 -
29.       The Second Education Development Plan (1973-77) supported continua-
tion of the reform measures introduced under the First Plan and contained
some new programs to meet the needs of the productive sectors and improve the
quality and efficiency of the formal education system. Pursuant to this Plan,
basic education opportunities in the rural areas were extended through con-
struction of new schools and more efficient utilization of existing ones.
Rural schools were converted into community learning centers to launch a basic
skills training program for the rural population, and an accelerated basic
education course was introduced for over-age students. In addition, practical
subjects were introduced in basic education and the introduction of diversified
curricula into secondary education was completed.
30.       Notwithstanding progress made under the  Second Education Develop-
ment Plan, there remain extreme disparities in access to education, and
in efficiency, between urban and rural areas. In 1977, enrollment in basic
education schools accounted for only 52 percent of the age 7 to 15 rural
children compared with 109 percent in urban areas (including over-age
students); and only 19 percent of first grade entrants completed the six
years of primary education in rural areas, compared with 47 percent in urban
areas. This imbalance can be attributed to the acute shortage of classrooms
in rural areas, distances between rural schools, many of which offer fewer
than six grades; lack of well-prepared supervisors, directors and teachers
for rural schools; and shortage of teaching materials, including basic
textbooks. Rural children also have very limited access to secondary
schools since those are concentrated in large urban areas.
31.       While the lack of well-prepared teachers is particularly acute in
rural areas, the low quality of the teaching force is a countrywide problem.
The majority of the present teachers are graduates of teacher training
courses that, due to their inefficiency and unsatisfactory standards, were
phased out in 1967 or consolidated into one large and well-staffed institu-
tion (Ciudad Normal). Given the inadequate training of most of the teachers
now in the primary school system, an innovative, countrywide in-service
training program is being prepared, as well as improvements in the pre-
service teacher training courses.
Government Priorities and Programs
32.       On the basis of an AID-assisted sector study, the Government has
prepared its Third Education Development Plan (1978-82), which is geared to
address some of the system's qualitative deficiencies and structural im-
balances. The general objectives of the Plan will be to strengthen further
the formal education system, with particular regard to improved access to
basic education and to quality improvements at both primary and secondary
levels. The main thrust of the Plan, which the proposed Bank loan would
support, will be to continue the expansion of basic education opportunities
in rural areas through construction of new primary schools and more efficient
utilization of existing ones. Specifically, the Government is planning:



(a) to construct new schools and replace inadequate existing
schools in the most disadvantaged rural areas so that by
1985 basic education will be provided to 89 percent of the
relevant age groups in grades 1-6 and 37 percent in grades
7--9 (compared with 70 percent and 8 percent for the same
grades in 1977);
(b)  to implement in alL rural schools a double shift system and
multigrade teaching, thereby increasing the number of stud-
ent places and usinig teachers more efficiently, and, by
providing an opportunity for additional pay, helping assure
the availability of sufficient competent teachers for rural
schools;
(c) to carry out a revised school nuclearization system, as
an approach to organizing and supervising rural education
to provide children with maximum access to basic education
and to integrate the schools into the community;
(d) to expand technological education at the post-secondary non-
university level to provide the growing industrial sector
with qualified technicians.
33.       While the double shift system coupled with multigrade teaching
would make more efficient use of teachers, the student/teacher ratios would
decrease substantially, with the ratio dropping from the present 40-45 pupils
per teacher for a one-shift day to about 35 pupils per teacher per shift for
a two-shift day.
34.       The Government has been experimenting with nuclearization of
rural schools since 1976; however, the 34 nuclei already established are
functioning with very mixed success because: (a) they were designed on
the assumption that large schools located at a central point would attract
children from surrounding communities, and this has not occurred since
walking distances are excessive; (b) appropriate training for teachers and
directors has not been provided; and (c) administrative and legal procedures are
not clearly defined. The Government is now developing policies and plans to
correct these deficiencies, and the proposed Bank project would support
these efforts.  The plans call for a "central" six or nine grade school
linked to a number of neighboring schools offering either six grades
("subcentral" schools) or four grades ("associated" schools). The "central"
schools would offer formal primary education to school age children, ac-
celerated primary education to over-age students and non-formal training
courses (in agriculture, health, community development, home economics,
etc.) to out-of-school youth and adults. The "subcentral" schools would
provide the full six grades of primary education to communities located 10
to 15 kilometers from central schools; the "associated " schools would



- 10 -
provide the first four grades of primary education to small communities
located within three kilometers of a central or subcentral school where
students might attend the fifth and sixth grades. Each "central" school
would have, in addition to classrooms, facilities for teaching science
and practical subjects, a school library and an administration area, and
all schools would have covered areas for community activities and a student
food program.  Some "central" school teachers would receive specialized
training to carry out the non-formal training courses and would assist in
organizing community activities. The director of the "central" school would
have no teaching responsibilities, but would supervise teaching in the
nucleus and serve as a liaison between the community and the non-formal and
in-service teacher training institutions utilizing school facilities.  The
improved nuclearization system would be applied first in rural areas iden-
tified as having the most acute need to expand and improve education oppor-
tunities.
35.       With respect to technological education at the post-secondary
non-university level, preliminary estimates of the demand for skilled
workers and technicians indicate that, during the 1978-1990 period, 700-900
new technicians will be needed annually. In 1977 the two existing tech-
nological institutions--Instituto Tecnico Centroamericano (ITCA) and
Instituto Tecnologico de San Salvador (ITESS), both located in the San
Salvador area--graduated a total of only about 270 technicians. To help
close the present gap between demand and supply of technicians, the Govern-
ment plans to establish two institutes (in Santa Ana and San Miguel) and
expand ITESS to increase the total number of graduates by 400 per year.
Non-Formal Education and Training
36.       Non-formal basic education is mainly provided by the Ministry
of Education to out-of-school youths and adults through evening and ac-
celerated courses and literacy training. The accelerated programs offering
basic education through instructional television (ITV) lessons and written
materials, are flexible courses given by regional counseling officers.
37.       With respect to non-formal, work-oriented training programs,
the Government has recognized the need to provide well-organized new
training services for skilled or semi-skilled workers, and to provide the
necessary upgrading of the existing pool of manpower to enhance its produc-
tivity and mobility.  Accordingly, the Government in 1977 created a National
Vocational Training Council (NVTC), made up of the Ministers of Labor,
Planning, Economy, Agriculture and Education, together with two representa-
tives each of the employers and the trade unions.  To assist the Council, a
full-time Technical Committee was set up with representatives from each of
the aforementioned ministries. Major spheres of responsibility have been
established, with the Ministry of Labor now responsible for all industrial
training for skilled occupations in the organized modern sector, the Ministry
of Economy for management training and the Ministry of Agriculture for
agricultural training and the diffusion of modern technology to farmers.
The Ministry of Education's role under the new system is to undertake



- 11 -
non-formal basic training for the urban and rural poor. In the 1978-82
period, the Government plans to provide training through short courses to
approximateLy 12,000 small- and medium-size farmers and almost 6,000 indus-
trial workers per annum (partially filling the projected gap of 15,000
industrial workers per annum). In addition, almost 4,000 rural and urban
poor per year will receive basic occupational skills training.
Education Finance
38.       Public basic education in El Salvador is free and tuition fees for
public secondary and higher education are low.  To equalize opportunities,
a system of loans financed by a fund in the Central Bank has enabled low-
income students in secondary and higher education to finance living expenses.
39.       In 1977 total expenditures for education (current plus capital)
are estimated at US$123 million or 4.3 percent of GDP.  Of this amount, the
Central Government contributed about 90 percent. Public expenditures for
basic education represent the bulk of education expenditures (64 percent of
recurrent expenditures for education), a clear sign of the high priority the
Government assigns to basic education.
40.       Foreign assistance to education in the form of loans and grants has
been provided by: (a) USAID, supporting mainly ITV, curricular and adminis-
trative improvements, the construction of basic education schools and occupa-
tional skills training for tlne urban and rural poor; (b) the Bank, supporting
the expansion of secondary education, basic rural education, and agricultural
and industrial training through three projects; (c) IDB, supporting the expan-
sion of the autonomous university; and (d) UNDP, which has provided technical
assistance for the educational sector.
41.       Government authorities are now faced with the difficult problem of
expanding e,lucation opportunities and improving the quality and relevance of
the system at a time when a significant proportion of the Government budget
is already being spent on education.  The 1978-82 Education Development Plan,
therefore, gives emphasis to efficiency and unit-cost reductions. The double
shift system will allow teacher workload, which under the one shift system is
light, to be increased, with additional hours being paid at half the regular
hourly rate. This measure is facilitated by ITV which releases teachers from
part of their active teacher tasks. Unnecessary recurrent expenditures will
be avoided with the selectivie replacement of classrooms which are rented or
are too small, leading to uneconomically low pupil-teacher ratios.
42.       Given the cost savings expected to arise from these measures, the
financial impact of the overall education program, of which the fourth proj-
ect is a part, is relatively modest. While El Salvador's central government
education expenditures (current plus capital) rose from 2.5 percent of GDP
in 1963 to about 4.0 percent in 1977, the amount of these expenditures as a
percentage of GDP is expected to decrease somewhat through 1985. The
education program supported by the project should not give rise to budgetary
problems or serious conflicts with other expenditure programs since Central
Government revenues, in the next few years, are expected to increase more
rapidly than GDP, recovering from the unusually low levels of 1978 (see
paragraph 14 above).



- 12 -
Prior Bank Education Projects
43.       Under the first Bank loan (Loan 609-ES of US$4.9 million equivalent)
signed in June 1969, the Bank supported implementation of those portions of
the First Education Plan related to development of formal secondary, agricul-
tural and technical education and the reorganization of the formal education
system.  As noted in the Project Completion Report (PCR), the project, which
was completed in December 1974, had a significant impact on the development
of public secondary education in El Salvador (with project schools accounting
for 40 percent of all public secondary enrollments and instructional and learn-
ing materials developed under the project reaching 61 percent of the public
secondary school population). Less successful were the efficiency objectives
of the project, with unit recurrent costs exceeding estimates (because of poor
utilization of some facilities), the teacher training programs falling short
of the original objectives (because of the lack of specialists' services and
underutilization of fellowships), and enrollment in the agricultural and indus-
trial post-secondary schools and the industrial and agricultural sections of
the secondary schools being lower than anticipated. The conclusions of an
audit report prepared by Operations Evaluation Department and distributed
to the Executive Directors on June 21, 1977 1/, were similar to those of the
PCR. In view of the foregoing shortcomings, in the proposed project special
attention has been paid to the intensive utilization of facilities and to
the provision of an adequate level of specialists' services.
44.       The project financed by the second Bank loan (Loan 1007-ES of
US$17.0 million equivalent) signed in June 1974, is supporting the Second
Education Plan objectives of expansion of basic education and training
opportunities in rural areas. The second project, which like the first is
being implemented by the Ministry of Education, includes establishment of
rural basic schools offering a variety of education and training activities
for youths and adults and initiation of a mobile, non-formal rural training
pilot scheme. This project has suffered implementation delays of about three
years for a number of reasons: (i) high turnover of staff in the implement-
ing agency, the Directorate of Educational Architecture (DAE) and the fact
that DAE was given responsibility for a steadily increasing number of
activities outside the scope of the project, (ii) lack of coordination among
Departments of the Ministry, (iii) shortage of construction materials, (iv)
difficulties in site selection and acquisition, and (v) undercosting of some
project elements during appraisal and cost escalation that have caused a
substantial project cost overrun (43 percent).  Most of the problems delaying
implementation of the second project have now been overcome with the estab-
lishment of a new project implementation unit with responsibility solely for
the execution of the project and the contracting of outside consultants to
assist the unit on site selection, design, construction supervision and cost
control aspects of the project. The scope and size of the project have been
modified and the Government's project targets adjusted to reflect funding
availabilities (some 49 schools have been transferred to the fourth project).
At the same time, the Government has requested UNDP to finance an evaluation
of the administrative structure of the Ministry of Education, with particular
attention to be given to DAE.
1/   Sec M 77-518.



- 13 -
45.       The 280 schools that have been completed under the second project
are well staffed and are operating satisfactorily. Of the 234 schools
remaining to be completed under this project, 96 are under construction and
scheduled for completion by October 1979; bid documents are being prepared
for 60; sities are available Eor 37 and being selected and acquired for 41.
Construction of all schools :is expected to be completed during the first
half of 1980. Given the advanced stage of implementation now achieved under
the second project, the project unit has already begun site selection for
the first group of schools to be included in the fourth project, in order to
allow construction to begin in the latter part of 1980. Thus, the proposed
loan would provide the financing necessary to help the Government maintain
the recently acquired momentum necessary for meeting its objectives of
extending basic education oplportunities to the rural areas. In view of the
second project's shortcomings, special attention has been given in the
proposed project to strengthening the capacity of the project's implementing
unit, to site selection and acquisition, and to reducing construction costs,
whenever possible.
46.       The project financed by the third Bank loan (Loan 1571-ES of US$9.0
million equivalent) signed in June 1978, and declared effective in October
1978, is assisting the Government in establishing a nationwide institutional
structure for non-formal agricultural and industrial training to help meet the
requirements for technical manpower and to increase the productivity and income
of small and medium-size farmers, agricultural workers, unskilled, semi-skilled
and skilled industrial workers, their supervisors and managers, and small- and
medium-scal,e enterpreneurs. The Ministries of Agriculture, Labor and Economy
are responsible for project implementation, which so far is being carried out
satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Fourth Education
Project", No. 2458a-ES, dated May 21, 1979, is being distributed separately.
Project preparation was compLeted by the Ministry of Education in September
1978. Annex III contains a timetable of key events in processing the project
and a description of the special conditions of the proposed loan. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington on May 10 and 11, 1979. The principal
representative of the Govermnent was the Vice Minister of Education,
Mr. Juan Jose Bonilla.
Objectives and Composition
48.       The fourth project is designed to support the Government's high
priority educational investmient programs included in the 1978-82 Third
Education Development Plan. The project would assist the Government in:
(a) expanding basic education and training opportunities for children and
adults in rural areas by establishing 50 rural basic education nuclei
comprising 356 schools; (b) improving the quality and efficiency of rural
school administration and supervision through the establishment of an
improved school nuclearization system; (c) expanding in-service training



- 14 -
programs for basic education teachers and school directors; (d) expanding
the production of textbooks and teaching material for basic education; and
(e) establishing a new post-secondary technological institute to increase
opportunities for training of technicians in selected priority specializa-
tions needed for the country's industrial development. USAID will also be
assisting the Government in expansion of rural basic education through a
recent loan (signed March 21, 1979) for the amount of US$4.4 million; the
USAID project was designed in close coordination with the Bank and would
complement the fourth project through the provision of technical assistance
for pre-service training of rural teachers and the financing of upgrading
and expansion of existing rural primary schools.
49.       Specifically, the fourth project would include:
(a) construction, equipping, and furnishing of 54 new schools
in small rural communities of which 49 would offer the first
four grades of basic education ("associated" schools) and
5 would offer six grades of basic education ("subcentral"
schools), with a total aggregate capacity of about 4,500
new student places;
(b) construction, equipping and furnishing of 191 schools which
will replace unsuitable schools or upgrade and expand exist-
ing schools, of which 85 would be "associated" schools, 56
"subcentral" schools and the remainder "central" schools
(offering either six or nine grades of basic education),
with an aggregate capacity of about 26,000 new and 16,420
replacement student places;
(c) equipping and furnishing 111 schools of which about 24 would
be "associated schools," 65 "subcentral" schools and the
remainder "central" schools (when expanded in the future)
with an aggregate capacity of about 22,400 student places;
(d) expansion and upgrading of the in-service teacher training
program as follows: (i) equipping and furnishing of the
new facilities being constructed at the National Teacher
Training School (Ciudad Normal) under the Second Education
Project and construction of new office and storage space
for the in-service teacher training program; (ii) provision
of supplies for the production of teaching materials in
connection with the in-service teacher training program;
(e) production of textbook and teaching materials including:
(i) preparation, distribution and evaluation of new text-
books; (ii) materials for and printing of about one mil-
lion basic education textbooks and teaching guides; (iii)
construction and equipping of a building to house the
Ministry's Textbook Division;
(f) construction, equipping, and furnishing for a new post-
secondary technological institute in San Miguel with a
total capacity of about 240 student places; and



- 15 -
(g) technical assistance to the Government for project
implementation and evaluation, improvement of school
administration and supervision, curriculum develop-
ment, textbook production, in-service teacher
training, and curriicula preparation for the techno-
logical institute.
Detailed Features
50.       Basic Education.  This project element would assist the government
in establislang 50 rural basic education nuclei comprising 158 "associated",
126 "subcentral", and 50 "central" schools and equipping 22 schools which,
when expanded in the future, would be converted to "central" schools. In
1984, when project facilities are expected to be in full operation, about
90,000 studients would be enrolled in project schools (19 percent of total
rural enrollment projected by 1984).
51.       In addition, some 12,500 adults and out-of-school youths would
receive literacy and accelerated basic education courses, as well as non-
formal training courses, at the central schools. The non-formal adult training
courses would be designed to improve agricultural productivity and the
quality of life in each community. Instructors for these non-formal courses
would be volunteers selected from the most capable local workers and primary
school teachers assigned to central schools, who would receive special
training provided by the National System of Agricultural Training (CENCAP)
and the Vocational Training Centers of the Ministry of Labor, being estab-
lished under the Bank's third education project. In addition, central
schools would be made availalble to other training agencies of the Government
to carry out specific programs for rural community development. Central
schools would be used during weekends by teachers of nuclei schools taking
in-service training courses using distance-learning techniques.  The Govern-
ment has agreed that by June 30, 1981, it would take the necessary action,
including enactment of regulations, to organize and administer the basic
education school nuclearization system in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.03). The director of each central school would be
responsible for the supervision of all schools within the nucleus and would
also serve as liaison between the community and the non-formal training
agencies. Given the pivotal role of the director and teachers of each
nucleus the Government has agreed that it would (i) select directors who are
graduates of teacher training programs specifically designed for this purpose
and provide the directors with salaries at the level of "unified school
director"; and (ii) staff project schools with qualifid teachers who have
successfully completed in-service training courses on rural community
education, including multigrade teaching techniques (Loan Agreement, Section
3.06).
52.       Ihe Government's strategy is to assign new graduates of teacher
training programs to rural areas for the first three years and to have
the majority of, or all, rural teachers work two shifts and receive adequate
monetary cc,mpensation for the second shift. In addition, the Government has
provided housing for rural teachers. During the past five years this



- 16 -
strategy has attracted qualified teachers to rural areas. However, because
of the expense involved in providing housing, the Government has now decided
to review this policy and is exploring the possibility of helping teachers
acquire their own houses in a community by making available to them loans on
favorable terms.
53.       Teacher Training.  With the support provided under the proposed
project, the Ciudad Normal would be equipped to train annually about 550 new
teachers, or about 75 percent of the total teacher demand; the remaining gap
of 180 teachers would be provided from other existing public and private
teacher training schools.
54.       The in-service teacher training program would reach about 10,000
primary school teachers (70 percent of the total) with 6 to 20 years of
teaching experience. This program would utilize distance-learning tech-
niques, including printed materials and lessons provided through the Ministry
of Education's ongoing television and radio programs. A teacher who
completes the program would be eligible for a promotion certificate and a
salary increase. Tutorial staff (supervisors, secondary school teachers,
educators in the Ministry of Education, staff of Ciudad Normal), contracted
on a part-time basis, would assist trainees in mastering the course content
and would be responsible for conducting periodic examinations. Six man-years
of specialist services in distance-learning techniques, module development
and program evaluation, and four man-years of fellowships for training
abroad would be provided. Ciudad Normal would also provide training courses
for 50 directors, 50 industrial arts teachers and 50 home economics teachers
required for the central schools of the project's basic education nuclei.
55.       Textbook and Teaching Material Production.  Promotion of new text-
books would be by means of the ITV network of the Ministry of Education, radio
programs and posters. A program to train teachers in the use of textbooks has
been designed and would be implemented by the in-service teacher training
unit at the Ciudad Normal. Two man-years of specialist services and six
man-years of fellowships for training abroad would be provided for textbook
production. During 1981-83, under this program, all rural students and about
20 percent of urban students in grades 1-6 would be provided with textbooks,
which would be lent to them by each school. (It is expected that the balance
of urban students would be able to purchase textbooks.) The Government has
agreed that: (a) it would appoint professional staff (one general coordinator
and 16 textbook writers) satisfactory to the Bank by January 31, 1980 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.07a) and (b) it would undertake by December 31, 1982, an
evaluation study, acceptable to the Bank, on student performance and achieve-
ment for selected subject areas (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07b).
56.       San Miguel Technological Institute.  The Institute would train,
in a two-year course, technicians in the following specializations, which at
present are not offered in El Salvador: (a) agroindustry, (b) industrial
maintenance, and (c) production and quality control. Yearly output would be
about 110 technicians. Technical assistance specialists would help the
staff of the Department of Higher Education of the Ministry of Education in



- 17 -
preparing tlne curriculum for each specialization to be offered. The curri-
cula would be designed in close consultation with industrialists to assure
that the content of the courses is relevant to the job market.  In addition,
the curricula would have a modular structure, to help students leaving
school before the end of the two-year course find employment as assistant
industrial technicians and to facilitate their return to the Institute to
complete the full course. Wlen in full operation, the institute would
require a teaching staff of about 30. General education teachers would be
selected from the better qualified secondary school teachers, while teachers
for technical courses would Tbe employed on a part-time basis from industry
and from the Central American Technological Institute (ITCA). In addition
to four man-years of specialist services for curriculum preparation, one
man-year of specialist services would be provided to assist the Government
in establishing a tracer and evaluation system, and one man-year of fellow-
ships for training of instructors abroad. The Government has agreed to take
all necessary measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to attract qualified
staff for the San Miguel technological institute (Loan Agreement, Section
4.04). Also to ensure that the courses offered at both the new San Miguel
Institute and other post-secondary technical institutions are responsive and
relevant to job market needs, a student tracer and education evaluation
system would be established by June 30, 1981, for each of the post-secondary
technical institutes in the country and the data collected would be used in
adjusting courses to job market needs (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).
57.       School Administration and Supervision; Curriculum Development.
School supervision would be reorganized and strengthened in order to improve
and extend basic education in rural areas and to ensure the successful
establishment of the school nuclearization system. The project would
provide three man-years of specialist services in school nuclearization,
administration and supervision and about 15 vehicles for central and zone
supervisors to help carry out this task. Implementation of this new system
would require revision of existing regulations as well as adjustments of
budgetary allocations. The Government has agreed that by June 30, 1981,
such action would be completed (Loan Agreement, Section 4.07). Five man-
years of specialist services in basic education curriculum development,
education t:echnology, research and evaluation, student guidance, and four
man-years of fellowships for training abroad of key staff responsible for
curriculum development would be provided.
Cost and F:Lnancing
58.       The total project cost is estimated at the equivalent of US$33.6
million, including contingencies of US$8.6 million (of which US$6.0 million
is price contingencies). A breakdown of costs by project component is con-
tained in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report. The
proposed US$23.5 million Bank loan would finance 70 percent of project costs
and would cover the foreign exchange costs of US$14.0 million, and US$9.5
million of local costs. Local currency financing is justified on country
grounds, as discussed in paragraph 20 above. The US$10.1 million balance



- 18 -
of the financing for the project would be provided by the Government. A
total of 21 man-years of specialist services and 15 man-years of fellowships
for training abroad would be provided at an estimated cost of US$50,000 per
man-year of specialist services and US$10,000 per man-year of fellowships.
Project Implementation
59.       Project administration and execution would be the responsibility of
a Project Coordinating Unit recently established under the Mlinistry of Educa-
tion to improve the implementation of the Second Education Project (paragraph
44 above). The unit is headed by a general coordinator, who is assisted by
an educator, two architect/engineers, a procurement officer, an accountant,
and support staff. Consultants, satisfactory to the Bank, would be appointed
to assist the unit in site selection and evaluation, architectural design,
preparation of relevant bid documents and bid evaluation and construction
supervision. Due to the existing trend pointing to excessively high
construction costs for rural basic education schools in El Salvador, consul-
tants acceptable to the Bank would also be appointed to assist the Project
Coordinating Unit in conducting a study to determine ways of reducing
construction costs for such schools. This study, to be completed by December
31, 1979, would determine the feasibility of introducing preassembled systems
for onsite erection of classroom modules, community participation in school
construction, etc. The Project Coordinating Unit, with the assistance of the
relevant Departments of the Ministry of Education, would review and evaluate
architectural designs, equipment and furniture lists and specifications,
textbooks and teaching material production, to ascertain that these meet
economic and functional standards as well as the educational objectives of
the project. Furthermore, to ensure that the physical facilities and the
educational objectives of the project are being implemented as envisaged,
the Government has agreed to undertake an annual audit of the completed
project institutions and to submit such audit reports to the Bank for review
not later than January 31 of the following year (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08).
In order to assure adequate funding for maintenance and operation of project
installations, the Government has agreed to make annual budgetary appropriations
equivalent to the aggregate of at least 1 percent of the construction cost and
5 percent of the cost of equipment and furniture of the completed project schools
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.08). Finally, as USAID is financing complementary
investments in basic education and pre-service teacher training, close
coordination will be maintained between USAID and the Bank during project
implementation.
60.       The Project Coordinating Unit has so far selected over 50 sites
for the first group of schools to be included in the project. A special
condition for the disbursement for expenditures for civil works and equipment
for new and replacement rural schools would be the acquisition of 65 sites
and selection of another 35 sites for project schools (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b)).



- 19 -
Procurement and Disbursement
61.       Civil works under this project are unlikely to attract foreign
contractors due to (a) the sraall size of most schools and (b) their remote
and scatter,d locations. There exist a number of small- to medium-sized
local building contractors whio are adequately equipped and administratively
capable of undertaking the construction works. All construction contracts.
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; however, interested
foreign contractors would not be precluded from bidding.
62.       Contracts for furniture and equipment would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. However, items that cannot be grouped into packages of at least
US$50,000, or are produced by the Ministry of Education Center for the
Production of Teaching-Learning Materials (CREA), would be procured through
local procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement under these local
procedures would not, in aggregate, exceed US$600,000 equivalent (correspon-
ding to about 10 percent of estimated total cost of furniture, equipment,
textbooks and other teaching material). In accordance with the Central
American Agreement on Fiscal Incentives for Industrial Development, suppliers
from the Central American Common Market (CACM) countries would receive a
preferential margin in bid evaluation equal to 15 percent of the c.i.f. cost
of imports, or 50 percent of the tariff payable by non-CACM manufacturers,
whichever is lower.
63.       To facilitate the timely availability of local counterpart funds
and prompt payment to local contractors with limited working capital, the
establishment of a project implementation fund of at least US$400,000
equivalent, to be administered by the Project Coordinating Unit, would be a
condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01).
64.       The loan would be disbursed over a four-year period.  Disbursement
would be made for 53 percent of the total expenditures for civil works and
professional services; 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported, or 85
percent of the cost of locally procured, equipment, furniture, textbooks and
teaching materials; 100 percent of the cost of technical assistance and fellow-
ships abroad; and 50 percent of salaries for project administration, teacher
training and textbook production staff.  An amount not exceeding US$300,000
would be disbursed retroactively to finance the construction and equipping of
the Textbook Division faciliLties, and professional fees and other expenditures
related to project implementation incurred after November 1, 1978.
Project Benefits and Risks
65.       This project would contribute substantially to supporting Govern-
ment efforts to increase the coverage of basic education in rural areas and
train needed industrial technicians in a manner which will make them more
responsive to employment requirements. In addition, significant improvements



- 20 -
in quality and efficiency of basic education schools would be derived from
the introduction of an improved system of school organization and adminis-
tration, the provision of more facilities for accelerated and literacy courses,
better pre-service and in-service training of teachers, directors and super-
visors, and adequate provision of textbooks and other teaching materials.
66.       No major risks are foreseen in the staffing of project rural
schools with qualified teachers, due to the Government policy of improving
their conditions of service. The most serious risks associated with the
proposed project would be possible delays in execution due to administrative
problems which have hampered the second project, i.e., frequent changes in
high level personnel, and lack of coordination among Ministry of Education
Departments. Conscious of this, the Government has taken corrective steps.
It has (i) requested UNDP financing for technical assistance to evaluate
the administrative structure and procedures of the Ministry of Education and
to make recommendations for improving its efficiency; and (ii) established a
Project Coordinating Unit staffed with competent professionals (assisted by
consultants) whose main function will be to cut through the customary
bureaucratic red tape and ensure the prompt completion of each consecutive
stage of the project. A second risk is that available counterpart funds
might fall short of the estimated requirement. While no major fiscal diffi-
culties are expected in the next few years, the total amount of budgetary
resources required for the Government's education program will be substantial
(as discussed in paragraphs 38-42 above). This financial risk would be reduced
by the establishment of a project implementation fund, which would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of El Salvador and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
68.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness would be the establish-
ment of a project implementation fund. A special condition for the disburse-
ment of expenditures for civil works and equipment for new and replacement
rural schools would be the acquisition of at least 65 sites and the selection
of an additional 35 sites for construction of project schools.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
June 8, 1979



- 22 -                                          Annex I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
EL SALVADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
EL SALVADOR                                              Ia
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL              21.0                                                    SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       13.4                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   200.0       320.0      570.0           1066.7      432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      127.0        192.0     248.0            911.1       251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          2.4          3.4       4.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 38.5          39.0       39.4             57.9       24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       114.0        162.0      205.0             25.6       42.7         50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    190.0         273.0      321.0             77.6       95.0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.8         47.5      46.1             42.0        44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                          52.0         49.4      50.4             52.2        52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.2          3.1        3.5              3.7        3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.7          3.5 /f    3.1               2.7        2.7          2.5
URBAN                               3.3          3.7        3.4              4.3        8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      48.5         46.1       42.2             35.8       42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       20.1        14.3       11.1              9.1       12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..           ..        3.0              2.6         3.2         2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..         6.4       43.9
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       10.4             15.1       14.2         20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970=100)             104.1        100.0      109.7            102.1      104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    82.0         79.0       84.0            103.9       99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              ..        43.0       50.3             60.3       56.8         63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..        10.0       19.9             26.7       17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       17.5        11.1        7.1              8.7         7.5         8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    58.5          65.0         ..             62.6       53.3         57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..          ..         ..             56.9       82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         40.0       53.0             60.7       31.1         56.8
URBAN                                ..         71.0       89.0             78.0       68.5         79.0
RURAL                                ..         20.0       28.0             34.9        18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  *        37.0       39.0             61.1        37.5        30.9
URBAN                                  .        66.0       71.0             80.3       69.5         45.4
RURAL                                  .        18.0       17.0             25.4       25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           4630.0 /    3920.0    3970.0             1899.3     9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1400.0       930.0      860.0           1220.1     2762.0       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              460.0       500.0         ..            422.3       786.5       493.9
URBAN                                 ..       230.0      250.0            258.2      278.4        229.6
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..           2281.6      1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        31.0       34.0             25.6        19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          5.2         ..              5.2         ..          5.2
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..               ..          ..         5.0
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..               ..         ..          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..              2.0         ..          2.0
URBAN                                ..          3.8         ..              2.1         2.3          1.5
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..              2.7         ..          2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..        34.0       44.7             51.2        28.3        64.1
URBAN                               60.4        73.0         ..             77.3          ..        67.8
RURAL                                 ..         7.0       14.4             12.8        10.3        34.1



Annex I
- 23 -                                   Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
EL SALVADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
EL SALVADOR                                            la
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE lb      REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMtARY:    TOTAI                80.0         81.5      75.2 /h         103.5       75.8        99.8
FE1tALE              77.0         70.0      69.0           102.9        67.9        93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0        16.6      20.4 /h          37.2       17.7         33.8
FEMALE               10.0           ..      17.0            37.9        12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 30.0         31.0      58.0             14.7        7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           37.0         37.0      43.0             32.8       34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                         15.0         25.0        ..             17.8       23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        51.0 /i     60.0      62./jO           74.9       63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         8.0         10.0      11.0             26.9        7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        89.0         85.0        ..            173.5       71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         8.0         26.0      28.0             69.4       14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  45.0          *       92.0             72.8       16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  6.0          3.0       3.5              4.3        1.6          4.6
EHPLOYM ENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       810.0      1080.0    1130.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   16.8        18.2      19.1             21.4       28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             60.0         56.1      55.0             37.8       54.1         46.2
INEUSTRY (PERCENT)                17.1         19.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.3        30.7      30.9             30.8       37.8         33.8
MALE                                 53.4        50.0      49.7             47.2       50.3         48.1
FEMALE                               11.0        11.3      11.9             13.2       20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.7         1.6       1.6              1.7        1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..      38.0 1k          28.9       19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..     67.0 /k          57.7       48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..       2.0 Tk           3.2        5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..       7.5 /k          10.7       15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL. (US$ PER CAPITA)
UR]IAN                               ..          ..        ..            251.9      155.9        191.9
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..            200.6       97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL. (US$ PER CAPITA)
URltAN                               ..          ..     176.0            403.1      143.7        319.8
RUILAL                               ..          ..     125.0            258.0       87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      18.0             24.8       22.9         19.8
RURAL                               ..           ..      70.0             65.2       36.7         35.1
.Noi: available
.Non: applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c Latin America & Caribbeani;  /d   Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  Ie  Intermediate
Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  Due to repatriation of Salvadoreans from Honduras,
population growth rate is higher than rate of natural increase;  /j  1963, Physicans in hospitals only;
/h  IBRD mission estimates; Neginning 1971, duration of secondary education was reduced from 6 to 3
years, while primary education was extended by 3 years. Therefore data not comparable with those of
enarlier years;  /i  Aged 10 and over;  /i  Government estimate;  /k  Income recipients for San Salvador
un ly .
September. 1978



- 24 -
Anne-x I
DEFUftTONP  OF SOCIAL INICATORS                                                   Page    3   of   5
Motes-   oltuougo  the data ore drawn bun  I ourcee generlly Judg.d ohs nest ahrta e .drlib, LIn should also bnocc  chat ohny ray rot hb. tnn
.sefulte Occacas  f the Lck of eruderdind definitiOn   .0d concepte used by different co-tIi.. in  -11-cing  th.. data.  -h. d.ta  re   O theiLs-,
-fL  de... iP. orde.  fmanud,indi-ate  trend.. an  char-t-riati.. cartels major diff--eoe  betwee  c-unries
lh dl-std croceac-r.e.. for  -ah'tdcae  are PopuLarot1--alhtd geanic -mesa,--  excludn   the aetre     value  of the irdic.toreed the roe  populaIted
etry L. each droup.  Due to 1eck ci uata, groupaeae  of  LIl  Winclltrn   For Capital su-pl, O11 tEPrter   and of indIcaor. of t-o..t                            .. oeter and .u...t.
disposl, (lou     -, nn  dilotib.ucio   and Povety for other ..e.uty  groups are poprl.tiom-Lcgbt.d S-trlc  me.-  aithout en-Iueon, of tha extreme                             .  -eoe dt
and most  opulated o utry.  Sincet.   ocoErm   o~f conetties aen   the ldluet1rn  oosd, vs - -eilablllt. of 'ai.e end Lacc  ofm  cauive -wa  hencerc:ised
Ic  n,a lu  avrecs  f     _oeindicator to  ethr ;    hesh   avrgsaemslP            sfla tnaenaaivaofemsne"Ieun    be  cnae   th                                 J_ie  o   n
lopND AiEo  ('ho..eend eq. Ics                                                                  encai    e  ohyalcis, - PpupIlaio  divided by  -cbar of pr-tt blue  phyei-
ocai -  ctet crface  ree ounia iO  landcone adI tn-ad osaeoaaqaiidfyA-sdloel ethool a  ceortr ee.
Aor:o-lt-rl   Mos't "I'llet otEmat. of agriulurl  re   . vd tmepo.raily                     Pouagnnr moals  erm-   popultion div~Idedk, teeIs  of prat-cing
ccpretnl   for cro_ps, pI..tuac  ,  akot a-d kitchen gardens PI to                      aeadfml  g.ad-te sra,  Pracicl n-re                      end. a.  itatn.
Ice fallow1.                                                                              tnnasnio   n hr  slt   hd         rrl   urban, and rural - ?opoeIon  (totl
urban, and raaidvie   by their raap.-t- seeke  of hospi-aI bed
ThP PER CuotroA <SI1) - GNf per capita -aettcte  atcurrent narkt prica,                           nall  I.e publio- ed pivate  genera  an1 d ep-ciall-d hoaplia1 ed r
cacua IdM 7nm   conar..os mthod as World Bank Atla A,  1975-77 basis);                habilitaties center.  4oapitala   r s      -e bIncah -tea i  permanety staffed by
1960. 1970, a-d 1977 data,                                                                  as les ... t   phytcin..   Etatbita     -.c providing prt.innIpal   cuam ial
car-ar  max Inlded.  Rural bhapLtai, h-Ios,  nxunhatad   d-II-
(NPI    onfTyfON ?ER CAPITA -   - tn.olocseption of nmecil  oeg   (coal                   ca  ct.tr   not permnetly staffed ho A peysiclan (btMyamdIca   s
and lgie    arlat   auoIgS.and hydro-, nulerad g-ntbetna                                    altat, muaamdiafe, at..) obch Offar It-p.at le    -c oindation aed
Llcrily)i  ki1ogam  Of coa  eq.i-a en  per capita.                                   PI-'id. 5 Iisit.d ramge of medicat       aclt1   s
fld.eeiton   pr hoepital bed -  et-al number of aesosto or dia-harge
rOr11T.tLfIN cA ID  O.coioIsfe  heepieci  dicided by the nt-e- Pi bed..
:oci pouultion    i-er  nln)L - d. of lu1ip 1; 19h0, 1970,   d
1)77 1 dana.                                     dt i                                       mODS i
OrvoonoaIo   (per.... I    total)1  - vact  of urban  to  ctal population;             fceseiau  hoshl    ernacrhunld -  oa.ta.artr1-
differen  dfiton of irhaarv     ryaff.nt  -mp-raility of data                                  baneghald coniee  fMagrupo  iniiul uohrolvn   oacr
uevn  ocnts.ad th.ir na L.                                                                                   le   A boarda  or lodger may or may no  hecc ic.Idnd iO the
PP.pulaion P-                                                                                 h-.oh anagold fr at.tslti.lta    ops
191c lpolroi-io     by Aesad  _e ad theLI rortaLinyadfrtty                           o   ae       e   esi l, rdaa. ad r_.1 I--epindcovnIona  dolIng
rate.    roetlu  para-ter  for mortaIty retee  umeprisa of 3 tlevels                        rnpecsivly. pe-lli.g. anclade uo-pornm,a   tutre  anduucpid ar.
.seocing life  eupectn    .t uirth  lceen    ith curaPer capIta                           Alce-, tc elscni;ulrn  foceto   afivl-coa.uhe   n   ua
Iccon   lnI.-    and tamale life: soecany      n             :ifen t 77.5pae                Convetina  dwligswt a_iiit   nliigqurasa.prenaoo
The paraisetore  for fnrrilityracea. leo bae    lve, asetala   daoIitn            ctot1, -rban, ond rurldmllgr.nciep
Im fErtility ....ordiua C to. inom laai cad peer f-iliy pl ..nLog per-
f.rma.c..  -ach c...utry I. thaoasga    n   ftas9ceiain                                 0CT~
of  -ornlity and  arltlictY  crade-for Pdrole 'tihnpuroe.                                  Odut    rroLLna     ration
Scclnar  tnlalc   -Ina  ruicac   yPnlaInion, there icccgneh nmay  uon      toalml  and fesai   G-..s tuna1, tala  and fnsa1a n--11l
Iqocn.lnhrtelsic    to the deah rae,ad  aa thage                                                             'hno.alanea   b  prim   lee -a-eretges of -espotti- prImar
atrooerninaP coaatI. _hiaiaci evd   nl  atr fartiIity rast                          s~obol-age popeslatiom  l  umlly inclu,des  ,hiidrnn uod h-i.y yers hut
declineto chnreplacnen t lvel ofunIt nt  aPred-ttion  rate,  h-e  e:th          sdjaatd for dI,fferent lengtha of pimary ndc o;toroutruac  with
de_r_sic  P1  .anerpla..c  its.El  ...ectly.  The Statio...ry ?Pupncltion                    _aivcea  edu. tiL   arulmn  my   .u.d lii0 Per...t abvi              ne    uli   r
_leu.   aimatod_o  to. busis of the prIso.tsdo  aatritc                f lbs           helm  or abor  the uffinial achul ax..
nltu inthe Year 2000,..ad th. rat  of denlim   of ferniliry rets                   -sode   col- eL. male and fee1l  - Computed as above; aacondaryien
co replaceeentlevel,                                           ties rquires at leat four pars  of approvd primar  ins-truto;prode
Onto 3-t-OOno  puc       .o Ia  ..aced  - Th. year when  Saniomary Popela-                   osarl  oanonl.o  cch,r nrainlag isa trot ices  far pupi a1  --usilv  of
don slue has hose rthed.                                                                    1to7yers-fa            -l orepmd-ou  cnr... are generaly ancluded
PSid-re-   .vuaio        Ia squar  cil1-ter 1100 batrs                        ebid,lders,or othr pr_ga   which opera.Vte Inpandetly  cr as
Per 00. on. auricolroraI.lad - fuauted aaabev-  fur ariulurl  ad                    Punl=teche  ra:tio -`rimare   n   a  nsr    ee`tdoe    noldi
only.                                                                                       prisary asd ..condany lam.la ivided by eca Iar  of tat..r I-in thecore
I ... a,i-e vun str- t-r  (Percent) - Childrnn  (i-lb ysara)t.a-kIng-.ge                       peig  ees
(t5_64 feas)  ad  .",ed f65 years and ocr) a. Per-eota.. of aid-                         tdclt literc   ae(arot_               ireae       ut   (able tu reed end units)
osar population.                                                    * ~~~~~~~p-rteetcg  of total adult 9puplarto   aged 10 years and    an
Pouato    r_o   rt                t.ront .1caal-ad urban - Cunpeu..d annu-l
gr_eh  _ac. of cora Iand urbansl-ys  puuate ic  1950-60t,                              COllN" "IIR4
1960-70, and 1 7 7-P                                                                      P..a-em  rare  lonr tho...d   -ouain       oane   aecprise so1tr cars
Crude birth rats (ne  th-.ad) --tocol Line birth   Per- thousad of                            entig  en  than eight pron;-nidsamuane.bera   an uItem
nid-year  .populaion; 1)60, 1970 and 1907 data.                                             rehicls.
Crud  death rote  loan tbh--ad) -Aoenoal deathe per nbthcaad of mid-                        RAdILo r.cainec  Oep- nhvaaad ocpseatio)   All typro of re..elcera  for radio
perpopulaion   1960, 1970 ad 1977 dana                                                   hrmed..  stgsnera   public per th-wacdto   aaaln    nldcuico
rtererdvion rate.vereIe  nosIe  ofdagh tare aoeeat,ill baar                          receivers In countries and in yee  whe- regis,trat-io  cf rdoetse i
I     Ive   omlrproductive  period If -seopriee    resen                -                   alffut; data forI reet years asy no  be  -oparabla  iuc  most c-lutrin
specific fertIilyrtss                                  ....y iv-ya   ...ege   ening    _19;69,  absIghed lioeelng
reedy ntanntne-aconnrora   auncal    m (tca a- tca   -eb-r of                     pcbltn per thoua-d populatton: aoue  iolcce   l   eeursi   o
aocuytcre of hrnh-connrui deicee  coder aceicca of national fanly              trig.  nd is years when rgietraLiun of IV  ears Sh  i  efet.
pia-nl   prgrm.tmerae  circulaton  (eec .hen,,nd eeulln                                                                                             -   .Son Che a-raga ciroule-
F-oncy    ...m cee'-usera  inncet ofcrre    'en        etnaef                                 tI    fdiynmrl  eeecnm   ee, daf ed oe                          "otcdlcI pcbl11
carried conan of ohild-hoeniug  ann  10-asia yaars) uhcee birt-cotr-l     cation devoted primarily to reording genral nes.I  LA  -on idedt
deiest   all  mrid  cnic sca  age group.                                             be "daIly' if it appear  an Leat four time    wek
Ohf000) AND N17RTIOy                                                                            sold idurn   h   er   nide    disuc    0diet                      maadmbl
Per auct  aunly of-clories f coron  oi rosur L                 _ts   _ on_td free      tOfPdtPEl
enem   eqlln  of no  foo  uopplie  available  Lu c-iccy per capita                        "ca   au   crefbnedi-onmc"yntv                              een   c-ncicdtn  armd
Por dan.   -.eiabl. .:"pPIs   cimPrna    y    t  prdoutlo, L.P.--a I..a                     fneedunplyd bat encluding  ho-asi-.e,  -tde-t, etc.  Dfloi-
empors, an  ohanes itutou.  Macuupples omlcd  a Ima  feed, needa,                 tna  ia various   rontiss ar  ntoparahis.
i.atttO    sd1 in(o    reuig d         u.d I....e  In diotribution.  OR.F-femal  (20ar...t) - F-als labor force a. perenag  v  tonal laurfooa
qormcswre  -circ ted by FAOf oaad on phytong ra cee,de for  o-                     OA-e-tsltc    feprce..   - Laker fE-n  In fatetlog, foretry  hceriug and flehiec
ea   civt   n    :1wth cneiderv   atrsmnatepenr,bdasP- -tetao   of                                        llbor forte.
-sighta, age  -ndadIa'rib-tlom   of P.riafn,sd aLlowIng ii Per-                           Ind.atry fpr-et) - Labor fue  in minig.  -nsarnuclon   canfatring  aed
Intfr  at   t hooadnld  level,                                                     elc_ct,otrad ga  a :PerneageoI  oa -.labr forc.
P-r .1 roct  eutely 01orei   Zrmupr  ay    pruein nestofper                                 Particltion rte  I ,arn.... . _tte.J  _vi   acd iencas  le- ta,   ale  ad
-pci- no  -oPply tf rc   per day.  I.st a-,Pi  of food is defined v(allarfotseper--tgna of cusirrepcIePup ro;16,17
dov.Rnquconn    for   Iconrs               -btlihed M   SiA provide  fu                ed 1975 dan.t   zh-sers  ILOe aicexad paricIpa;tion  ra_e  fas_tng   ge
L tiimc   Mlloaeo7 ofOf  naw   oftoa     rret  Per day ond 2h gree                       sac structure  of the polati, and 1ong curstred.
00 uni-o  -cd poio   rnen  of',I  goo  hud Me acm                          rten          tonoi, depedeorti   - canto of population   nder 10 and v5 andovrt
23 goos  of a-lna  prutai   oanorg   for the ourid, pruponed by,
100 in tieTIII   cId fud Surrey.                                                       lN7Off D7ISTRIBIMON
fei c rta  onel  topi   fon  otia au  rla   -  otuturly of food            N  cuaefvrIitoaeln               (.Iot  I   .awh and kind, r roe... i,  c Otctee h-
derive   iron  almaicaed puces  Ingran  pon da.                                   Pnroa t            2rcha   lfper-n, poor--  20 Percnt  -ed p--ea  4d lenten
Child  :-an t-a,) nort,lc   ruts res          ,,bnsdl . uu-cca  de-tha per thoc-              o   osh
atd on age group 1-4 .rear I, to ohildrIn  in this we roup.
POVERTY TARG,~ GRPOIS
Life ooecatnoato h (rearm)-uvrg   n                    rof yeara of life  r-.ic-               .bouepnrylne   ee I.e L  that Lne  irvel,belwoil a1  inin.lu
Ing at birthr 1960, 1970, and 1977  ata oItininly   dequate dirt plow  aantlno-food r-qoi-e-nr   Ianu
on ea   f age Prr t....aod Li-io_Lrhe.ltetdrltv   ecety   o L                                                               evel.-   fUS  oar tdia - bra-atra
SctA  to cae     .atr       ...ce t of  outt)-c aI.-ub-I- d  -rur1                            R.Ieti-e  povety J-cor  levL 1  on-third c   crc   e  vpt   etv
Noutr of people (total, urban, and rurl)  -.th reasonbleace                  P tim cof the  -cunry.
caf  one  uupt   lciueetrate   srfce  atocor   tratd  ht                otccirdpoultlo   hLe  scoicrvooro ib..ce(e-d                      orr1-- ,ca -so
.oroarnte   ncrsctctht  rm   roacehvohtu.rrne.                   to      P--ercec    tio           (.ta,rtana-d   or.nauno.aacr
lv an u_ban AreuIpoblll ftu-tin~rstnp tLocatd .c. more thae
170 otr  tru                         __aicyheur Idored as  etg aol t I  r-a -nable
co  c   ftatMoe    troroI a-     w   teao-   bI   cocdol   o
roottonhoconie  o    ember d.iteho bd  vciec
0)5  rorot bace   arta) (e ly 1   eotgtefitl      ue   ed                                                                      cnncadScclC  aZ-a 
tcrtodi--1Irre. o               ooolt.otl   od.adEcemcuavi  ccPoao)n
ruo.Octoovsn             -1oa ,orh-b o-    or    iSarObacat    l-                                                                              trt 
nod  a   nrotde   o   heir  -epeciv pL       catna    nrt  diapoa
-d   rtideth  oilci-nm -dcp           , uish orilhouteosI            to
Z-uut-etrv-dr-ontytn..thu.                                           fc
Ltoo    otci nmciLtos



a-.ata-c           -aaaa)aa      -,       -zaaaz-a                                                   ta-       tata-   aaaa-   a,'
aa-aa-c                                        taaa                 a-   a-a  -at
ta-    aa-aaa-aa   -                    - a          -az--a-a-ac-a-a         aaaca                 aca a a ac-a   -
-. zaaaaa-a   a-a                                 aaaa aa-a-a--a.-         a--a a a-ac aaza  a- -
a             a -a                         ta
a-a---a-az                aaa-aaac                    a a-a--
ggaa                'a-ma-      r..-    t;a-a-a-t    a     --aa-aatacaaa   a          -a---- "ca                           a-  "a-c    az        act   a
aa-.aa              a-a        '    Q-.Ozaacz,.c                                   Oa-C-ta-                aaa      -    a                a-   a a
ii        a a-a    aa-aazta.aa..                   -a-          aa aaa-aac             aaaaa   a
aa%b a      a-                  a      aaaaa-          a          acaaa--.a?                                aza    a  a--a-    a
a a a   a     a a         a a a a a a.
-a                a. aa         Caaaaca                               C            a aacC a
a        a  aaaa                                     a-      a-acaa-aaa
a-               aaaa                                      a   za-:aa
a-         a-      a      a a a a a     a             a -a,'                     a                 a         a   a- a a-   a
a,           a            a-a   a                    a-a-a- -.
at     a        -a  a        a-           -a- a a                          -                     a   a-a
a                        a  a-          a  a-
a-       aata                       -a'aCa-                                   -                        -
a-                            '                        aa                         a a     a a                                           C      a    -
a-            -a       a                                 a
a               a                       a a                                             a a                                             a           a
a z                                 a           a
a. H a-O a-
a         -               a a -                     -aaa       aa-a-        ---a
aaaac-    a       aaa-a  -aa   -             a-a-a" -a"         -                 aaa       aaaaa-aaaaa aa          - a
a-a a--a   a      aa-aaaaaa-   a             aaa aaaaa          aaa-aa           a-a                               'a
a-    a a a      a a-aaaa-
a   a    H                   -,     - -   - - -  -  -  -  -  -                   a-
a   a   -a  -.            a   a a   -             a a - - a              a-aa.a   - a a a a a a  . -
aaa-a aaa         aata   a-a - -             a aa-,aaaa        -         -       aa-a       aaaaaaa aaaaa            a
a      -aaaaaa-aa  - a            aaa a-a-a-        a    'a-a-az      aa.                               -
a-Ha-Ia-                 '         -a                 -                                                                     a-az       a aaa-a-aaaa-aa          a -"
a,-aaaa1aa-          aca-1ca-     a-                  a      -aa,-.aaaa   a             aaaaaaaaa        -a
U  'a 'a    -        a -a a-la H
a                       a      a a -    -                 t-aaa                   a -a-a       -         a- a aaaacaaaaa          - 'a-
a -a            aaaa-aaaaa       --      aaa        zac       a -taaaaaaa-a-           a
aa'a,aa-'ac          a." a.-aaa   -a      aaaaaa a   -       aaaaaaaaa   a              aaaaataaa         a     aaaaz       aac        a aaaaaaaaaaa          -a
---a-             .1'           i      -,aaaa-a  -a       aa-aaaaa.a                 aaa-aaaaaa       - a    caaa-       "a-a                              'a
¼
a-I,-  'aca-'aa           a-a-aaa 'a    'a'                a
a                       a      a a -    -                 t-aa-a                  aaaaa                  aaaaaaaaaaa                      a
a                     'a           aaaaa-a   a        aaa-aa-a,a-a   -           aaaaaaa aa        -                  a-       - aa ta-a aaa a        - a
ci'  a-a-ca-Ia-a-              I a      Ia-                 a      aaaaaaaa   a               aacaaaa-aa      -a      a -,a"       a-a                   -           -,
-, ' ' aaa aaa            a-a--ii'a a. a   'a   aaaaa-[a - -
ala  'a-a--a-b4Z         "'a-a-kU  a-  a-      ataaaaa  -a        aaa-aa..aca                a t-aaaaaaa     -a      ai-aa       aaa       a aaaat-aaa.aa           a
aaa        aat'taa-azaaac
a-I       -.                                                       a a a    a                 a-a-a-a                  a-ca                 a-aataatttaa             a
a.a-a-a,a'   a                                    a  -            a a aa.aa a      -                 a a-      ..,aaaaaa,aaaaa         a
Uk  a-c-. a                a a- a-a.    a.                                                                             at -a a                                       a
'a-i-     4'                 a-i       'a-                         -taaa.caa   a              acaaaaa--.        a      acaa       aca          a a a a a a a a a a  -
S
a                        aaat      aac               -
a--    a-a-                       a a a    a                 c-aaaa  -a               aaaa
-a                a"-                              - -
-       aaaa       a--a      a actazatacta           'a
- ..                              ccc        U
'a                        a a a    a                 --aaaa  -                -aaa                 - a-. aaaaaaaaaa       -' -
,aa'a-1a-                              *o:flaa,a   - a           caaaaaaaa        - a     aaat       a-az                              'a
'a                         a aaaa-a-.t.               aaaaa                    -         a a a      aaaaa-.aaaaaa
a            a-aaaa-aa        a         aa      cat        a aaaaaaaa-aa            t   a-  'a
                   aa   a                                                                                    - -"                      a--at                  a
ttt a-a                                                           - --                     aaaa      ccc
*aaaU                                     c-a  a    a                                         aaa.a         -         at-4aaaaaaaa          -a 'a
a                          aaaa--aaa   -              -,ccaaaaa       -        -        at-        a aattaaata.a          'a
""a  a            a-Ua-                                     aaaaa a-ta   a            za---ataa         a       -a-a-a    -ca                                'a   -
-act      -a-a       a -aa-tt,ttaa.t        'a   a
IS    S       'ad
aaa  a-          a-   t                                      Ia t                      a "a                      act-      ca-c      a aacc  -a-cat
a    a         a                   a-a        aa,aaa                aa--aa-a-        -       aa,a       *-*          a-aaaccaaca
ta-a              a    t          a                                                     caa-aaat-a                 -       ta-       a- aaaa-aacataa          'a
---a              a                                          ctaaaaata  a              -aa-a-a-aaaaa              ta      a-a        a a tatta-atiza         :5
a  a           a    a                                     -a-atatt  a               aaaa-.aaaa-       5       a5aa      at        -
H                                                                                                                a
I                                          II                                                                                     a"         -          ---'a
aHaa a                                                                                   a a a a a a a a a a     -a-a -
a              I                                                               cata                a at-a  -.ataa
I     If                                                                                  a a-ac  aa- a a         -a a
a-la-I-a             ca-a-a-I                a-    'a
a- I ca-H            a aaa''a                  I    ii
'a- I a-a-a-         acac-.                    I                                                                                           c-W8                  .caaa
a       aj-aaa



0         - 0                   0 ooW ~ :0           
00~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ 00 00   0  0   0    -  0        0    0                                              - 000  0000v    :: n
0~~~                             ~~~~~ _-  0                                    0                            0   o' 7   0                    
O0   00                0    00      0     00     0       00 0s -0             
00i   000    0  0  0                  00        0 90             -        0 0                                                     _   
0s         0  00  0  0 =                                 - e -0                               
S ~ ~      ~    ~     0         -        0                                     02                           000000000000   >o O«  WD  zz
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                       lo 0 00                00    o              000;
E ~ ~   ~    ~ ~       0    0000    0 .o r0                   000    00 r       0                               0 o <o                                        00 _0    0          
< t - ,900000000 00                                 000       00000000                                00000000000
Q~~~~~~~~00  0 0                                                                                     00 
n ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     0 0 0 0              00        0000   00_e   0  0e 0v                    OOt_:> o Os-o   00000   0  
< ~   ~     ~      ~      0 0 0 0 0                  00       00000_0  O0-0 mN O    O >n                     0 00000 OO                   r                    >OnO lr   
X      ,~~  >~A2 .   a¢v>gb8>XaK-Weo
_000



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EL SALVADOR
(exclusive of exchange adjustment)
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of April 30, 1979)
Loan                                                            ------US$ million------
or                                                                      Amount
Credit                                                            (less cancellations)
Number  Year        Borrower                 Purpose            Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve fully disbursed loans and credits                         84.5  13.6
811     1972  ANTEL                      Communications           9.1    -       0.1
1007    1974  Government                 Education               17.0    -      10.5
517     1974  Government                 Sites and Services        -    6.0      0.7
1050    1974  Government                 Sites and Services       2.5    -       2.5
1288    1976, COMISION DEL RIO LEMPA  Power                      30.0    -      21.7
1289T   1976  Government                 Power                    9.0    -       6.6
1465    197,' Government                 Urban Development        6.7    -       6.7
726     1977  Government                 Urban Development         -    6.0      4.9
1570    1978  ANTEL                      Communications          23.0    -      23.0
1571    1978  Government                 Industrial and Agri-
cultural Training    9.0    -         8.9
190.8  25.6       -
Of which has been repaid                                44.4   0.6
Total now outstanding                                  146.4  25.0
Amount sold                                5.1
of which has been repaid                 4.1           1.0    -
Total now held by Banik and IDA                        145.4  25.0        -
Total undisbursed                                       80.0   5.6    85.6
B.      STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of April 30, 1979)
Amount in $ Million
Year           Obligor                                      Loan  Equity  Total
1959    Industrias Textiles S.A.                            0.14           0.14
1969    Hoteles de Centro America, S.A.                    0.60   0.33   0.93
Total                                       0.74   0.33   1.07
less sold, cancelled or repaid              0.47   0.10   0.57
Now held                                    0.27   0.23   0.50



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Ln. 1007        Second Education Project, US$17.0 Million Loan of June 14,
1974; Effective Date: October 11, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The status of this project is discussed in paragraphs 44-45 of this
report.
Ln. 1050        Sites and Services Project; US$6.0 Million Credit and US$2.5
Cr. 517         Million Loan of November 4, 1974; Effective Date:  February 3,
1975; Closing Dates: March 31, 1981 (Credit) and May 31,
1981 (Loan)
Four years have elapsed since inception of the project, and civil
works are complete in five of the eight sites, about 15 months behind appraisal
schedule. Units have been built at costs which have permitted their sale at
prices within the reach of families with incomes of the target group. Total
unit development costs for each site, including price escalation allowances,
have been within 6 percent of the anticipated cost. The implementing agency,
Fundacion Salvadorena de Desarrollo y Vivienda Minima (FSDVM), has increased
its annual production capacity from 200 units in the early 1970s to about
1,500 units at present. The completion of the community centers and markets
(both the responsibility of the Government's community development agency) has
lagged; however, an agreement has now been reached with the Government that
the facilities would be completed with assistance from FSDVM. The two major
problems encountered under the project (land acquisition and water supply in
San Salvador) have been resolved.
Ln. 1288        Seventh Power Project; US$30.0 Million Loan and US$9.0 Million
1289T      Third Window Loan of July 28, 1976; Effective Date:  October 28,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Procurement of major generating equipment has been carried out on
schedule, while procurement of transmission system equipment is about four
months behind schedule.  CEL's asset revaluation study has been completed.
A study of the tariff structure is underway. The geothermal studies are
proceeding on schedule.
Ln. 1465        Second Urban Development Project; US$6.0 Million Credit and
Cr. 726         US$6.7 Million Loan of July 28, 1977; Effective Date:
December 20, 1977; Closing Dates: August 31, 1981 (Credit)
and August 31, 1981 (Loan)
Although less than two years have elapsed since inception of the
project, about 70 percent of the land required for the project has been pur-
chased and the remainder selected; the purchase of the remaining land is
expected to be completed within the next one or two months. The design of
the pilot upgrading component has been modified slightly, andl is about four
months behind schedule; land acquisition was completed in October 1978, and
community participation in the project is high. Legalization of the community



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
association is scheduled for mid-1979. Commitments under the small business
credit component grew from 470 loans in May 1978 to 2,640 loans in December
1978.
Ln. 1570        Third Telecommunications Project; US$23.0 Million Loan of  -
June 5, 1978; Effective Date: September 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, L[982.
Preparation of bid documents and technical specifications have
been reviewed by the Bank and contracts for all goods are expected to be
signed by July 31, 1979 (excespt for rural services which are expected to be
signed by June 30, 1980).  land acquisition for equipment installation is
underway.
Ln. 1571        Industrial and Agricultural Training Project; US$9.0 Million
Loan of June 93, 1978; Effective Date: October 27, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The status of this project is discussed in paragraph 46 of this
report.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
EL SALVADOR
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
2 years (from September 1976 to September 1978)
(b) Agency which prepared project:
Ministry of Education
(c) First presentation to Bank:
January 1978
(d) Departure of appraisal mission:
September 26, 1978
(e) Completion of negotiations:
May 11, 1979
(f) Expected date of effectiveness:
October 26, 1979
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
1.   The Government has agreed that:
(a) by June 30, 1981, all necessary action will be
taken to organize and administer the primary school
nuclearization and supervision system in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 51 and 57);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) only qualified nuclei directors will be selected
who are graduates of teacher training programs
specifically designed for this purpose, and
the directors will be provided with salaries at the
level of "unified school director", and that project
schools will be staffed with qualified teachers who
have successfully completed in-service training
courses on rural community education, including
multigrade teaching techniques (para. 51);
(c) by January 31, 1980, qualified professional staff
will be appointed for the textbook production pro-
gram, and by December 31, 1982, an evaluation study
on student performance and achievement for selected
subject areas will be undertaken (para. 55);
(d) all necessary measures, satisfactory to the Bank,
will be taken to attract qualified professional
staff for the project post-secondary technical
institute; by June 30, 1981, a student tracer and
education evaluation system will be established for
each of the post-secondary technical institutes in
the country and the data collected would be used in
adjusting courses to job market needs (para. 56);
(e) on an annual basis a physical and education audit
of completed project facilities will be undertaken
to ensure that the physical facilities and educa-
tional objectives are being implemented as envisaged,
and such audit reports will be submitted to the Bank
no later than January 31 of the following year (para.
59);
(f)  adequate budgetary allocations will be provided for
the maintenance and operation of project institutions
(para. 59);
(g)  as a condition of effectiveness, a project implementa-
tion fund would have been established of not less than
US$400,000, to be administered by the Project Coordi-
nating Unit (para. 63); and
(h) as a condition for the disbursement for expenditures
for civil works and equipment for new and replacement
rural schools, at least 65 sites would have been
acquired and an additional 35 sites selected for
construction of project schools (para. 60).






I ER D 14123
S;Pj,:       :'                                                         :     i4       i                                     ,     .n                         Grof Of                     MARCH  1979
/ < ! : * n & , 01B   Ar                                               - n    : ' C           S    :  . AngulotuR   :    ; ;   ,_ St e, n; , 5 ;  Rote                                                                                 :0 ; ;\0;, . :; 0; Q 0, Meini; o o. ; :  JAMA CA
w                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EL~oon  L  A VA Q
N  ~~~~~                                                      ~~~                                        ~.rhSptaor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U OCA 
S,<         2p                                                                                                                                                   nA '('
g X .: >:;? N(, j iW; X | y:  : =P: i 0  :    : g  ;    Q etrsn   19  i                [   0                     r  UK FOU       HtXUCA 1Nt  nP5(JL                      -a4  .X iv  . , :,          ;ELSAtLnAKDt    S,
L '    2  D2: ::  T .::t   : %;  2   ::;   /  SA, I     9et,stepeqf          uv  OcPO                             E4q1           ;: / - \; A       ;                                                                          owit;      ;  .,\) i  :;,:,2:  ;Sii}i,"  'i''   iJi'
N-. onaop                       r   -p,,,6,
U~0
,                                                                                                               C A  B A 0  Chnl, ennnn    N  Q  N                                   { A      Z A        N7
4'ON            (~~C                      C o                                     Jo-  p..oS-so.p.qu
d,; A".                            L/k,                                                                                            G }  4     t  X   4  t                t0 CrDer  .l, --2
*~~~~~~~~~~~- QEHOOGA iN-D-I 'VE OD                                                                                                                                                                                                                  i Hrrdr      1    7-\*LS_,w         xI \d  -~
C~~~~~ San Pablo                                                                                                                 de        = n_ Covh!t Vicr*r,
PeonotlA~~_. >NENTOA CoJUceAR,on                                                                                                                                                                                                                            fonwcan
P AZ  A N / f                   o CC O    nA 
A  U AC        A PA  Nl          'l,D.dB .,LU2
20' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    O 1220'{                              4          f
~~S.D-D IAN nOTS                                                                                                                                      oFoo                           cSliS-
DRPARTMMILE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                              Arapl        Golf ootd3e
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~S I                              II                          '-AL  DO                                                                                                                                       G.e                U N  I   _  0
so                                   L ~INENTINL  ON ARS
T A~PA /FC                                                                                   OC A
O:,        0                                                                                                           00 3   0 5
3'COKLOEER                                                                                                                                                                                                hi .a htbenprponhrAe  oldAab t~feAotolrfo,heon,nMno
L L  I Wt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fSiennfr  fte eote  hc  o e.hd  h  enoiennae  n  O
MILES                                                                                aooepnnnoe f cocA hooadaAhN
90 ASfCEUAINNCE                           MAIN ROADS                             hSu n'S'9'59h5h'5hDO                                                                                                                                                     7d



