Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 20407 RO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$17.1 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FOR A
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
May 16, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 20, 2000)
Currency Unit = Leu (ROL)
1 ROL= 0.059 US$
I US$= 19,819 ROL
1 US$ = 1.045 Euro
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASYCUDA           Automated System for Customs Data
BCP         Border Crossing Point
EU        The European Union
ECMT          The European Conference of the Ministers of Transport
EDI        Electronic Data Interchange
FIATA         Federation of International Forwarding Agents
FMS         Financial Management System
GCD         General Customs Directorate
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOR         Government of Romania
ICIS       Integrated Customs Information System
IRU        International Road Transport Union
IT       Information Technology
LAN         Local Area Network
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MoFWEP          Ministry of Forests, Waters, and Environmental Protection
MOU          Memorandum of Understanding
PMU         Project Management Unit
PMR         Project Management Report
RSC         Regional Steering Committee
SAD         Single Administrative Document
SECI        Southeast European Cooperative Initiative
SOE         Statement of Expenditures
TIR        Transport International Routier
TOR         Terms of Reference
TTFSE         Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
UN-ECE         United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
WAN          Wide Area Network
WCO          World Customs Organization
Vice President:                   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:                 Andrew N. Vorkink, ECCO5
Sector Director:                  Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Manager                    Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Program Team Leader:              Graham Smith, ECSIN
Task Manager                      Anca Dumitrescu, ECSIN



ROMANIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES ...........................................................   3
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES ....................................................................... 3
2. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS .......................................................................                                                                                 3
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT ........................................................... 3
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ..........3
2. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY .......................................................................                                                                 4
3. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES ...............                                                                          ......................... 6
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY ...........................................................                                                                                                 7
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS .......................................................................                                                                                        7
2. KEY POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ...................                                                                       ............................ 8
3. BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION ....................................................................... 9
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ....................................................................... 9
D. PROJECT RATIONALE ..........................................................................                                                                                          12
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION .......................                                                                    ............................ 12
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES ........... 13
3. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN ................................................................ 13
4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ................................................................ 14
5. VALUE ADDED OF BANK SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT .......................................................................                                                              14
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ...........................................................                                                                                                  14
1. ECONOMIC .......................................................................                                                                                                 14
2. FINANCIAL AND FISCAL .......................................................................                                                                                      15
3. TECHNICAL .......................................................................                                                                                                15
4. INSTITUTIONAL .......................................................................                                                                                            15
5. SOCIAL .......................................................................                                                                                                   16
6. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ....................................................................... 16
7. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH ....................................................................... 16
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ...........................................................                                                                                                 17
1. SUSTAINABILITY .......................................................................                                                                                           17
2. CRITICAL RISKS .......................................................................                                                                                            18
3. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS ....................................................................... 19
G. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS .......................................................................                                                                                          19
1. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS ....................................................................... 19
2. OTHER .......................................................................                                                                                                    19
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION .................................................................. 20
I. COMPLIANCE WITH  BANK  POLICIES ...................................................................  20
iii



ANNEXES
ANNEX 1.  PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
ANNEX 2.   DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
ANNEX 3.   ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
ANNEX 4.   COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
ANNEX 5.   FINANCIAL SUMMARY
ANNEX 6.   PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE A.   PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE Al.  CONSULTANT SELECTION ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE B.   THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
TABLE B2.   PROCUREMENT PLAN
TABLE C.   ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
ANNEX 7.   PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
ANNEX 8.   DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
ANNEX 9.   STATUS OF LOANS AND CREDITS
ANNEX 10.  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
ANNEX I 1.  EU'S SUPPORT PROGRAM TO ROMANIAN CUSTOMS REFORM (2000-2002)
ANNEX 12.  COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
MAPs No. 30918 AND 30919
iv



ROMANIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit
Date: May 16, 2000                                  Program Team Leader: Graham Smith
Country Manager/Director: Andrew Vorkink            Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: 7E-PE-65041                             Sector: TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument:                                 Theme(s): Public Sector
Sector Investment Loan
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [   Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan        [] Credit      [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans:
Amount: US$ 17.1 million
Proposed terms:                        [   Multicurrency     [X] LIBOR-based Single Currency Loan
in US Dollars
Grace period (years):      5           [7]  Standard Variable  [7]  Fixed
Years to maturity:         20
Commitment fee:            0.75% on disbursement loan balance, beginning 60 days after signing less any waiver
Front-end fee on Bank loan: 1%
Financing plan, including taxes (T8$m--)-
E 'Y~~Surce                      '-ca                           -     ':  ----bg. -     To- ---
Government                                                   8.7                0.0              8.7
USA                                                          0.1                1.4              1.4
IBRD                                                         0.7               16.4             17.1
Total:                                                       9.4               17.8             27.2
Borrower: Romania through the Ministry of Finance
Guarantor: n/a
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Finance and General Customs Administration
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY                                 FY2001    FY2002    FY2003
Annual                 1.0        10.2        6.0
Cumulative                 1.0       11.2       17.1
Project implementation period:      3 years
Expected effectiveness date:   October 1, 2000       Expected closing date:      December 31, 2003
Implementing agency: General Customs Directorate
Contact person: Silvia Savu, Project Manager
Address: 13, Matei Milo St., sect. 1 - Bucharest, Romania
Tel: +40 1 312 1338        Fax: +40 1 312 5261         E-mail: silvias@dgv.roknet.ro



Page 2
The TTFSE Proiect: Key Design Concepts
How does this project differ from the typical project?
Regional character. The six TTFSE projects are regionally linked in a program supporting Romania,
Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, and FYR Macedonia in their efforts to foster trade.
All these countries are beneficiaries of the Stability Pact'. They seek to promote more efficient and less
costly trade flows across the borders of the participating countries and provide EU-compatible customs
standards. This requires the cooperation of the participating countries and a mutual sharing of concerns
for the reform of their Customs services. To assist such cooperation and facilitate the sharing of
information, a Regional Steering Committee (RSC) has been created. All participating countries are
represented on this committee and have signed a Memorandum of Understanding detailing its role and
activities. The United States (US) is funding a secretariat for the RSC and experts to assist each
government in procurement management.
Reform combined with the provision of infrastructure. The project will support the implementation
of on-going customs reforms and focus on integrated solutions at selected pilot sites located on main
European corridors. Customs reform is an essential part of the activities Romania needs to undertake to
join the European Union. These pilots will increase the productivity of border agencies, enabling shorter
processing time at border crossings and inland terminals. Reforms and pilots will need to be supported
at some border crossings by the upgrading of infrastructure. The project will finance physical
improvements at these border crossings, once critical elements of reform proceed.
Non-duplicative structure. The TTFSE seeks to offer the Customs services the guarantee that reform
needs will be addressed in a way least costly to the government. Governments will continue on-going
customs reforms led by the European Union (EU) and will use grant funding from the EU and the USA
for most of the technical assistance components.
Participatory approach. The design and implementation of the TTFSE is based on participatory
methodology with the firm conviction that the projects belong to the participating countries and need to
be endorsed and owned by the various stakeholders, including the beneficiaries. Ownership is best
promoted by participation. Consultations with customs officials and users have occurred during the
design phase and mechanisms are built into the project to obtain regular user input in the monitoring and
evaluation process.
Building on previous/on-zoinz initiatives. Several international organizations have recognized the
need to help countries in the region improve transit across borders and have provided assistance to start
addressing it. The EU was the first to assist countries in the region to address this issue. Its experience
highlights the need for comprehensive reforms and carefully selected upgrading of infrastructure. The
Southeast European Cooperative Initiative2 also promotes economic and environmental cooperation
among the countries in the region, with a focus on efficient transit, and combating corruption and
smuggling.
'The Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe, adopted in Cologne on June 10, 1999 at a special meeting of Foreign
Ministers, representatives of international organizations, institutions and regional initiatives concerned with South
East Europe, commits these parties to the adoption of a comprehensive, coordinated and strategic approach to the
region, replacing crisis management with preventative diplomacy.
2 Consisting of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Hungary, Moldova, Romania,
Slovenia, FYR Macedonia and Turkey and established in December 1996.



Page 3
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project forms part of a regional program for Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast
Europe3 that aims to strengthen and modernize the customs administrations and other border control
agencies in Romania, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, and the forner Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia. The Program, the result of a collaborative effort between the Governments, the
Bank, the EU and the US, seeks two development objectives:
(i) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
(ii) to reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.
The Program would achieve these objectives by: (i) supporting customs reform; (ii) strengthening
mechanisms of interaction and cooperation between border control agencies and the trading community;
(iii) disseminating information and providing training to the private sector; (iv) financing infrastructure
and equipment at selected border crossings; and (v) implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of new
customs procedures, information technology, human resource management techniques, supporting
infrastructure, and cooperation mechanisms4 for agencies at border crossings.  The financing of
infrastructure will be dependent upon the successful implementation of the reforms, notably the
application of targeting and selectivity techniques.
In Romania, the EU, based on its long experience in the country, will continue to lead donor support to
the implementation of the Customs Reform and Modernization Strategy developed by the General-
Customs Administration (GCD). This is part of the pre-accession process. The EU's support to it is
presented in Annex 11. The process necessary to change institutional cultures and ingrained behavior is
expected to take a substantial time, about 8 to 10 years. The reform involves simultaneous and sustained
actions on: (i) change in administrative and operational procedures; (ii) definition of staff profiles for the
organization and hiring or training deployment according to them; (iii) elaboration and implementation of
a staff development plan; and (iv) introduction of up-to-date information technology and regional
interconnections. This project will provide support to implement the customs reformn at border crossings
and inland terminals during the first phase of the process.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards the objectives would be monitored by key performance indicators covering the
performance of GCD services at a pilot inland terminal and at the two selected pilot border crossings, as
well as overall efficiency indicators for the GCD as a whole. The indicators include: (i) transport costs
to/from the three main trading partners and the transaction costs at these pilot sites; (ii) number of
physical or documentary examinations and their effectiveness; (iii) processing times; (iv) the value of
recorded trade; and (v) occurrence of corruption. In addition, a set of regional indicators will be used to
measure cost/time reduction in regional transport on three major corridors to evaluate the overall impact
of the program. A detailed set of indicators has been defined to follow the national and regional progress
throughout the project life (Annex 1).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
CAS document number: 16559 RO Date of latest CAS discussion: May 9, 1997
3 Referred to in this document collectively as "the program" and nationally as the "TTFSE" project.
4 Including shared access to information and intelligence systems, and training for interagency awareness.



Page 4
The assistance strategy of the Bank Group for Romania emphasizes the four priority areas outlined in the
Government's strategy document "Development 2000 Program": (i) Promoting Structural Reform and
Private Sector Development. The highest priority is given to support for policy reforms to further
liberalize trade, eliminate direct government participation in the sector, and establish the prerequisites for
efficiency in markets. (ii) Strengthening and Rationalizing the Role of the State. The Bank will
support, as a key criterion for EU accession, the strengthening of public administration. The Bank
supports economic policy reforms, including delicensing, regulatory and tax simplification, and
competitive privatization, especially to reduce the opportunities for corruption. (iii) Fighting Poverty
and Developing Human Capital. The Bank is helping strengthen the pension system and such social
assistance systems as the health financing regime and primary health care services. (iv) Protecting and
Enhancing the Environment. The Bank is supporting the efforts of the Government to comply with EU
environmental standards by focusing on environmental liabilities of enterprises to be privatized and
raising public awareness.
The proposed project is especially in line with the objectives (i) and (ii) above. It will support the
restructuring of GCD to better serve trade activities by reducing non-tariff transport costs, lowering the
price of imported goods, and improving the competitiveness of Romanian products, thereby promoting
private sector growth and creation of new jobs in the country. The project will also support the GCD in
strengthening its tax collection capacity and enforcing several international conventions relating to the
environment, while reinforcing on-going efforts against corruption. The proposed border crossing
infrastructure improvements would allow a cost-efficient cross-border system with positive results for
road transport.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Trade is highly significant to the Romanian economy, representing on average more than 55 percent of
GDP for the last 5 years, and about 60 percent in 1998 (see trade indicators in Annex 4). The trade is
mainly oriented towards the EU (64 percent of exports and 57 percent of imports) with the main trading
partners being Italy, Germany and France (over 40 percent of trade) (see Map 30919). Among nearby
countries, only Turkey is a significant partner (about 5 percent of trade). The main exports consist of
textiles, basic metals, machinery and equipment, and to a lesser extent agricultural products and food.
Imports consist mainly of minerals and fuels, machinery and equipment, textiles, and chemical products.
Although Romania has started to strengthen its trade links mostly with Turkey and Bulgaria, only limited
trade takes place among the TTFSE countries themselves. The area is not yet connected enough by the
close trade relationships that normally define the term "region".
One of the main roles of the Romanian GCD, as part of the Ministry of Finance, is collecting customs and
excise duties, VAT on imports, and preventing illegal imports and exports. In 1998, the GCD collected
about 28 percent of the total state budget revenues (about US$2.13 billion equivalent). At the same time,
the aim of the GCD is to facilitate legitimate trade and transit flows, and to ensure cooperation with other
national border agencies, as well as with other customs services. Private sector observers recognize the
efforts of GCD but underline that much remains to be accomplished. The following obstacles to trade and
transport have been identified by the various stakeholders:
a. Modernizing Customs Code and Procedures
In preparation for eventual EU membership, the GCD has aligned its Code fully with the EU Customs
Code. A new Customs Code and implementing regulations were passed by the Parliament in 1997, and a
Customs Statute was enacted in 1998. The use of the Single Administrative document (SAD)5 was
introduced in the GCD in 1993.
Despite this modernization, the implementation of GCD procedures needs further attention to facilitate
trade and transport activities. Stakeholders have indicated they have concerns about: (i) changes in the
5 A standardized fornat for waybill and related transport documents promoted by the UN.



Page 5
legal system and regulations without advance notice; (ii) clarity and transparency of customs regulations;
(iii) application of legislation at border points; (iv) coordination among border agencies; and (v)
interaction with the Government. At the same time, GCD management signaled the following major
impediments to trade facilitation: (i) the need to revise the definition of responsibilities between Customs
and Border Police, as well as (ii) the lack of sufficient training in legislation and procedures by both trade
operators and customs officers.
The GCD intends to address these issues. The PHARE-financed project on "Measures to improve
efficiency at border posts" will be implemented in the next years; other related assistance is on-going
within the PHARE Multi-beneficiary Customs Program.
b. Upgrading Customs Facilities
Even if procedures are reformed and professional standards are strengthened, the design and facilities of
some of the main border crossing points will prevent GCD from fulfilling its trade facilitation, collection
and enforcement functions. Insufficient facilities (both physical infrastructure and equipment) at the
Border Crossing Points (BCPs) are one of the reasons for delays.
The Government has already started to rehabilitate BCPs with its own funds and with assistance from
development partners. Most of the main border crossings with Hungary and Bulgaria, and especially the
most important Romanian BCP of Giurgiu with Bulgaria, have been rebuilt to reach the Western
European standard, partly financed by PHARE programs. The GCD has built or rebuilt with its own funds
22 of the 105 existing border points. However, the lack of processing lanes for traffic and the limited
capacity of inspection areas, especially at the borders with Moldova and Ukraine, are the most common
difficulties. The expansion of Sculeni border station (at the border with Republic of Moldova, on Trans-
European Corridor 9) has already been started with state funding. The physical improvements at Siret (the
border with Ukraine, on the European Route E85 between Turkey and Kiev) are still critically needed.
With respect to equipment and information systems, the GCD is one of the most advanced of customs
services in the Region. It started its computerization program in 1995, with the support of the EU and the
British Know How Fund. It implemented the Romanian Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS) in
1988 in 83 locations, including an automated declaration processing based on Asycuda++, and
complementary modules. However, there is still a need for equipment for trade information points and
computers at customs stations, X-ray equipment and other advanced-technology equipment to raise the
quality of inspection and processing at major border stations, and communications equipment to complete
the customs national network.
c. Combating Smuggling and Corruption
Despite the efforts of the GCD and the Government, stakeholders reported that corruption and lack of
transparency generate significant additional costs. Freight rates set by companies operating in the region
frequently include a mark-up to cover unofficial payments. Users complain that procedures which give
the Customs discretionary power in setting fines are conducive to irregularities. While users may
exaggerate, the widespread mention of corruption by users interviewed implies that this warrants priority.
The fight against corruption is a major priority of the GOR. The EU, through its "Catch-up facility", will
support the elaboration and implementation of a national strategy for the fight against public corruption
and related organized crime. At the same time, in response to a request of the Minister of Justice, an anti-
corruption program will be supported by the Bank, through a Public Administration Reform project which
will address the issue as a separate component. Combating corruption and smuggling at BCPs are among
the priorities of the GCD, which cooperates closely with the Border Police. The GCD has signed the
Arusha Declaration on Integrity in Customs, committing it to enforce a code of ethics among its staff.
d. Improving Private-Public Interactions
Limited and sometimes late prior consultation with the trade community prevents meaningful and
constructive interactions. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Trade Point (within the Ministry of



Page 6
Industry and Commerce), and ROM-PRO committee provide mechanisms to reach more consensual
decisions. The lack of accountability of the GCD in facilitating trade is a core reason for the
disconnection between users and the GCD. Customs officials do not feel liable for the delays they cause
in the departure of goods, cargo transfer, and down-time suffered by vehicles, whether these delays are
justified or not, and the related costs are solely borne by the cargo owners. Limited foreign language
skills among operational officers cause time-consuming and costly transactions requiring translations.
The GCD increasingly provides training to its officers to improve the quality of their interactions with the
private sector, but further efforts will be required to achieve the quality of the services available in, and
compatible with, the European Union.
e. Strengthening Regional Co-operation
Romania, like all other participants in the South European Cooperative Initiative (SECI)6, recognizes the
importance of coordinated actions to address the above issues and achieve the objectives of the Stability
Pact. It is also recognized that, to some degree, each country can expect to gain more from actions to be
taken by its neighbors than those it should take itself. A regional view has thus emerged, according to
which participant countries would simultaneously apply coordinated and compatible measures to reduce
trade/transport impediments and corruption/smuggling opportunities. The regional cohesion can be
symbolized by the signing of the regional Memorandum of Understanding by the six countries, as well as
their willingness to benchmark country performance and to work on streamlined solutions at paired
border crossings7 (Map 30918). The support shown by the EU and United Nations Economic Commission
for Europe (UN-ECE) as well as such bilateral donors as the US reflects the importance attached to the
development and stabilization of the region.
f. Border Delays to Rail Transport
The proposed project addresses delays at road border crossings. Delays to trains at rail border crossings
are also a cause for concern, particularly as regards long-distance freight trains operating from Hungary
(and the EU heartland) through Romania and Bulgaria to Greece and Turkey. A working group bringing
together the ministries of transport and national railways of these countries, as well as their customs
administrations, has been meeting periodically under the aegis of SECI to agree on ways to reduce these
delays. As at the road border crossings, so also at the rail crossings the most promising solutions involve
simplifying procedures, shifting inspections and other formalities away from the borders to inland
locations, and using information technology to speed up and make more reliable the transfer of documents
about the rail wagons and their contents. World Bank loans to Romania and Bulgaria now under
implementation are financing the acquisition of modern management information systems for the national
railways. The proposed Project does not directly address rail transport, but rail traffic should benefit from
the Project's information systems for customs, as well as from the mechanisms for enhanced cooperation
among agencies and among governments.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address, to different degrees, the issues described above, building on previous efforts and
taking full account of on-going EU support to avoid any duplication. The project will combine resources
from the IBRD and the USA. Given the interest of Romania in the implementation of EU-compatible
standards and the need to ensure the overall compatibility of the program, close relationships with the EU
will be maintained. The project will seek improvements in: (i) procedures of border agencies; (ii) border
infrastructure and equipment; (iii) the ICIS; and (iv) trade/transport business environment and
professional performance.
6 See footnote 2. SECI was set up in December 1996, to promote regional economic and environmental cooperation
among the countries in the region. The initiative is being supported by UN-ECE, the US government and the
governments of Italy, Austria, Greece, and Turkey.
7 Between Romania and Bulgaria



Page 7
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a cost breakdown)
The project consists of the following five components:
a. Customs Administration Institutional Reform
Includes: (i) assistance to monitor GCD's performance; (ii) assistance to streamline operations at two
border posts and one inland terminal on a pilot basis; and (iii) training for interagency awareness and
cooperation. This technical support will complement the on-going EU activities to help implement the
GCD's reform strategy.
b. Trade Facilitation Development
Includes: (i) provision of technical assistance and advisory services to trade and international transport
participants through the Chamber of Commerce and Industry; (ii) improvement of cooperation between
public and private parties by using a virtual forum8; and (iii) provision of equipment to support
information availability.
c. Improvement of Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS)
Includes: (i) hardware for ICIS; (ii) software and assistance for information system improvement; (iii) a
regional program  of experience-sharing; and (iv) an inter-departmental information system.  This
component would stimulate regional and interagency cooperation.
d. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities
Includes (i) civil works for expansion of the Siret border crossing (on the highway from Turkey to Kiev);
(ii) equipment for the modernization of Constanta customs station, and for enhancement of processing
capacity at this and other major customs stations; and (iii) supervision of the civil works.
e. Program and Project Implementation
Includes the services required to support the regional and national implementation of the project. At the
regional level these will consist of the secretariat services to the RSC, and at the national level the
auditors, the PMU staff, the establishment of a financial management system, and training to the Project
Management Unit.
Component                        Category    Cost incl.    % of       IBRD-         % of
Contingenc    Total    financing      IBRD-
ies (US$M)               (US$M)    financing
A. Customs Administration       Institution       0.8        3.1         0.0          0.0
Institutional Reform            Building
B. Trade Facilitation Development  Physical/      0.4        1.6         0.0          0.0
Institution
Building
C. Romanian ICIS Improvement    Physical/         3.4       12.3         2.7          15.6
Institution
Building
8 Creation of an internet website that will enable exchange of views, user surveys and consultation.



Page 8
D. Improvement of Border        PhysicalU          22.1    81.0         14.1         82.3
Crossing Facilities             Institution
Building
E. Program and Project          Operating           0.5      1.9         0.4          2.2
Implementation                     costs                I
Total                                              27.2   100.0         17.1        100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Romania has indicated its commitment to market reforms, including deregulation and privatization. The
project will supplement on-going policy and institutional reforms seeking the following objectives.
a Strengthening of the GCD
The capacity building of the customs reform strategy addresses the following aspects:
*  implementation and enforcement of new legislation approximated with the European Union
legislation, with reference to the acquis communautaire and related legislation;
*  adoption of simplified and standardized customs and border inspection procedures
(compliance measurement and selective inspection based on risk assessment);
*  development of analytical expertise to develop and maintain targeting and selectivity tools;
*  development of analytical approach to border crossing station design;
*  human resource management to develop customs/border inspection expertise and enhance
system integrity;
*  training for customs personnel to ensure uniform application of the new legislation, to
improve the fulfillment of GCD's mission, and to enhance integrity;
*  creation of a partnership among border inspection agencies and the trade/industry community
to better coordinate operations, procedures, and the exchange of information; and
*  adoption of audits and account management processing to facilitate trade and trade data
exchanges.
b. Improvement of the ICIS
Improvements to the information system in use will have the following impacts:
*  elimination of multiple data entry;
*  creation of data bases accessible in real time at all customs locations to support selectivity
and targeting procedures
* support of international Electronic Data Interchange standards to enable-fast integration into
the international trading community;
* monitoring of customs performance, traffic patterns and capacity use;
* information exchange with other governments in the region; and
*  reduction in corruption opportunities by lessening human intervention.
c. Strengthening Regional Cooperation
The project will lead to greater regional cohesion. The implementation of the joint pilot project with
Bulgaria at Giurgiu - Rousse border post will strengthen regional cooperation at both local and national
level.
9 Treaties and the accumulated body of agreements on substance, procedures and protocols effective in the European
Union that must be accepted by countries wishing to join.



Page 9
3. Benefits and target population:
a Benefits
It is hoped that the Customs reform and transparent customs procedures will lead to lower trade and
transport costs. These in turn will reduce the prices of imports and make exports more competitive. The
benefits will spill over to government agencies and private companies in other trade partner countries.
This will translate into:
*  cheaper import goods / inputs for Romanian consumers and industries;
*  better and more reliable business environment for private sector activities, particularly for the
trade activities of the small and medium enterprises;
*  more predictable and reliable economic setting for foreign companies;
*  improved facilitation for transit traffic;
*  reduction of corruption and smuggling opportunities;
*  improved revenue collection by the GCD, enabling reduction in tariffs;
*  uninterrupted services of ICIS and better integrity of data; and
*  improved approximation with EU standards and procedures.
b. Targetpopulation
The beneficiaries of the reform will be transport operators, importers, exporters, freight forwarders, other
trade industries, foreign investors, and ultimately, consumers and producers inside and outside the region.
In addition, cross-border trade in the vicinity of the borders will be made easier for local companies and
individuals. Travelers and tourism will also benefit from the project.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
a Implementation Period
The project will be implemented over a three year period (FY200 I -FY2003). It will be completed by June
30, 2003, and closed by December 31, 2003. The customs reform process would last about 8 - 10 years.
b. Executing agencies
Romania, through its Ministry of Finance (MOF), will be the borrower for the Bank loan. Its sole
beneficiary will be the GCD. Through the proposed co-financing, other project beneficiaries will be the
MOF, the Border Police, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce (through its Trade Point), and the
Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The implementation arrangements will include the following
elements : (i) a project manager and a project management unit; (ii) a project coordinator; (iii) a
facilitation coordinator; (iv) a website coordinator; and (v) a regional steering committee (RSC).
The GCD will implement the project. The GCD management has appointed a Project Manager and will
establish a full Project Management Unit (PMU) covering procurement, loan management and
reporting functions acceptable to the Bank. The project manager will make an evaluation of the workload
for the PMU and plan resources accordingly. The PMU will coordinate project management for the
various beneficiaries, prepare terms of reference, hire consultants, and contract for services, training,
goods, and civil works as necessary for the implementation of the project.
The Project Coordinator is the general manager of the GCD. The Coordinator will call and chair
coordination meetings of the various border control agencies and manage their input, and will represent
the country at the Regional Steering Committee (see below).



Page 10
The Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCI) will manage the trade facilitation component. It has
provided a Facilitation Coordinator, who will interact with the Project Manager for the implementation
of the component. Trade Point will organize and interact similarly, as Website Manager.
The GCD will be the main beneficiary of the institutional reform, the improvement of the ICIS, and the
border equipment. The GCD and the Border Police will both benefit from the improvement of Siret
border crossing facility. The GCD and the Border Police will ensure that appropriate technical expertise is
engaged to support the Project Manager. Cooperating partners (the ministries of Transport, Industry and
Commerce, Environment, and Agriculture) will be involved in the definition of new procedures for border
controls.
Given the scope (six countries) and complexity of the Regional Program and the related policy and
institutional reforms anticipated, a Regional Steering Committee (RSC), meeting periodically at the
regional level, will oversee the overall implementation of the program. The participating countries have
signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) setting up the RSC and held the inaugural meeting in
Skopje in February 2000. The RSC is made up of high level officials - the Project Coordinator in
Romania - of participating countries. Donors are represented as observers. The RSC will provide
guidance for the necessary sector policy and reform decisions. Meetings will rotate among the
participating countries, with the Project Manager of the host country providing support services to the
RSC.
The UTN-ECE is providing a secretary to the RSC to support the implementation of the program. The
secretaryl' will: (i) prepare the agenda, supporting documentation and minutes for the RSC meetings; (ii)
consolidate on a semi-annual basis the implementation reports of the countries involved in the program;
(iii) consolidate the annual review report of the PMU/Project Implementation Teams; (iv) assist in the
trade facilitation efforts; and (v) establish a link to the SECI-PRO committees.
In order to provide a model of pragmatic solving of border crossing problems, the project will include
implementation of operational restructuring at two pilot border crossings located on the main
international corridors (Giurgiu on the border with Bulgaria, and Constanta, the main exit port at the
Black Sea) and one pilot inland terminal (Bacau). Bulgaria will similarly be creating as one of the pilot
stations the facilities on the other side of the border with Romania (Rousse). All the TTFSE neighboring
countries will develop pilot sites at their borders with each other, whenever possible, thus creating a
corridor for implementation of border crossing operational restructuring. A more detailed set of indicators
for management purpose will be developed at these pilot sites. The indicators will be used by each
country to examine and allow the evaluation of comparative performance.
This framework will provide an assessment tool for identifying problems and tracking the success of the
solutions applied in each case, providing an evolving case study. The results will be updated each quarter
by the PMU in addition to the project indicators in Annex I and offered to the RSC for review and
comparison. The lessons learned from these case studies will be extended to other specific border
crossings in the participating countries and to change management in general. Sharing the case studies,
along with other project reports, with the customs services and transport associations in countries not
associated with the TTFSE will enable the projects to stand together as a quasi pilot of customs reform for
application to countries outside the Program.
c. Procurement and Disbursement
Civil works, goods and services financed by the IBRD will be procured in accordance with the Bank
procurement guidelines. The Project Manager has selected a qualified procurement specialist, satisfactory
to the Bank, as permanent staff within the PMU. The procurement specialist will be supported with
outside procurement advisors as required"1.
10 The secretary will be sharing his time between his TTFSE responsibilities and the management of the SECI-PRO
committees.
' The US funded procurement advisors will be individuals with satisfactory country and World Bank experience.



Page 11
The project components not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with national
regulations or the procurement regulations of the donor institutions. The project elements, their estimated
cost and procurement methods are summarized in Table A of Annex 6. Consultant selection arrangements
are summarized in Table Al of Annex 6. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated
schedule of the major procurement actions is presented in Table C of Annex 6. The procurement plan has
been agreed upon during negotiations. All other procurement information, including the capability of the
implementing agency, estimated dates for publication of the General Procurement Notice and the IBRD
review process, is presented in Table B of Annex 6. All disbursement arrangements are provided in
Annex 6.
d Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements
A Financial Management System (FMS) including accounting, financial reporting, planning, budgeting,
auditing, and proper internal control systems will be established prior to loan effectiveness. The FMS has
met the minimum Bank financial management requirements (4-B LACI Certification) prior to board
presentation. The Bank made a preliminary review of the systems in place and made recommendation for
the installation of an appropriate FMS. The Bank has reviewed the FMS and prepared a report identifying
weaknesses and proposing remedial actions to enhance the system and enable the development of
appropriate project management reports. The Bank has defined a time-bound action plan to specify the
steps necessary for: (i) board presentation; (ii) loan effectiveness and (iii) further strengthening of
procedures and staff development during implementation. The development of the FMS will be
monitored by the Bank before effectiveness, during the first supervision mission, and throughout project
implementation.
The PMU will establish and maintain project accounts adequate to provide information regarding project
resources and expenditures. To that end, the Project Manager has hired an accounting/financial specialist
with adequate expertise. The PMU will have accounts audited every fiscal year by independent auditors
acceptable to the IBRD, in accordance with Bank guidelines and International Standards of Auditing,
issued by the International Federation of Accountants and Bank guidelines. The reports of such audits will
be submitted to the IBRD no later than six month after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. The PMU
will also maintain all documentation related to project expenditures and keep financial records in
accordance with sound accounting practices. A management letter giving an opinion on internal audit
controls should be submitted to the Bank six months after effectiveness of the loan.
e. Reporting
The PMU will prepare quarterly progress reports and transmit them to IBRD and the RSC; the RSC
secretary will consolidate the reports on a semi-annual basis, and forward them to the Bank. These reports
will include: the progress of each project component, key performance indicators, procurement issues
(actions dealt with, actions planned, and an update of procurement implementation). The reports will
measure performance against the implementation schedule and compliance with Loan covenants.
f Supervision and Evaluation Arrangements
Supervision will be managed at the national level by Bank Headquarters staff with active involvement of
the Country Office, and at the regional level by a program team leader from Bank Headquarters. The
Bank will devote some US$50,000 per year for supervision of project progress through FY2003. This
includes the Bank's contribution to the time of a senior customs specialist, jointly funded by a French
trust fund.
Each October or November during the implementation of the project, the Bank together with the PMU
and the other development partners (EU, US) will conduct a review of project execution. The review will
assess the status of regional and national project implementation and cooperation, progress made at the
level of pilot sites compared to targets, implementation of donor programs, and productivity of the GCD.
The review will offer refined targets and objectives for the following year and a set of recommendations.



Page 12
The schedule of procurement for the coming year will be agreed at the time of the review, considering the
progress to date in the institutional reform.
g. Monitoring
Overall, project monitoring will be based on performnance targets and indicators (Annex 1) and the Project
Implementation Plan as agreed during negotiations. Monitoring will be carried out by the GCD, assisted
by consultants as necessary.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
a Separate Individual Projects Carried Out by Each Country
The possibility of preparing independent projects for each participating country was reviewed and
rejected since the achievement of overall project objectives will be greatly aided by simultaneous
standardization and harmonization of cross-border institutions, operations, and legal frameworks among
countries and with the EU.
b. Regional Program of Investment Projects
A regional program of coordinated border crossing facilitation projects is more advantageous and was
selected since it will:
*  generate substantial benefit spill-over to customs users, producers, and consumers in the trade
partner countries of Romania, which, if also implementing the program, will in turn bring
benefit to Romanian industries/consumers;
*  allow the program countries to share information and introduce more consistent customs and
border control procedures/operations;
*  be flexible enough to respond to country differences, the pace of European integration, and
the impact of the EU enlargement process;
e  enable the Bank to coordinate with other donors that also implement regional programs; and
*  minimize project implementation/supervision costs by near-simultaneous implementation.
c. Regional Adaptable Program Lending (APL)
A regional or "horizontal" APL, including alternative b above as a first phase, would have enabled
sequential entry of countries in the Program. The delegation to the Regional Vice President of approval
of operations according to a well defined operational blue print was proposed. This horizontal APL,
however, was judged to be unfeasible because (i) such delegation by the board was thought unlikely; and
(ii) the determination of the future value of performance indicators to include potential borrowers to the
program would have been a delicate and risky task, given the inherent complexity of the program. For
these reasons, alternative b was preferred.



Page 13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies: (completed, on-
going and planned)
Sector issue                   Project              Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
Bank-financed rojects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Transportation              Romania: Second Roads Project        S               S
FYR Macedonia: Transit              HS             HS
Facilitation Project
Public Sector Management    Turkey: Public Financial             S               S
Management
Albania: Tax Administration          S              S
Modernization
Trade Facilitation          Estonia Transport                   N/A             N/A
Other development agencies
European Union              EU- PHARE programs, Customs
Multi-Beneficiary programs
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory), N/A (not available)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Romania has made considerable effort to improve its border crossings with external aid. Despite the
resulting progress, further efforts are still required. The border crossing problem, by its nature, requires
coordinated and mutually reinforcing actions in many areas. The reform effort is integrated to ensure
complementarity between assistance from the EU, the US and the World Bank.
The on-going Second Roads project in Romania shows that a major reason for success is continuity of
project management. The Transit Facilitation Project in FYR of Macedonia (ICR# 19408) highlighted the
need to: (i) tailor the complexity of the project's design to what can be achieved under a single loan; (ii)
ensure the capability of implementing agencies; (iii) address issues perceived as real priorities by the
borrower; and (iv) maintain flexibility to ease implementation. The on-going Turkish Public Financial
Management Project underlines that a major reason for success is continuity of project management and
involvement of a wide range of political decision-makers is important to achieving the project objectives.
EU-PHARE's experience shows that in order to lessen transaction costs at border crossings, border
crossings investments need to be supplemented by: (i) reliable traffic data; (ii) accurate information on
waiting times; (iii) adequate remedial actions on both sides of a border crossing; (iv) attention to multi-
agency needs; (v) linkage to national transport policies; (vi) reliable communication infrastructure and
equipment; (vii) communication with users; and (viii) coordination and simplification of customs
procedures and removal of state controls on international trade.
These lessons are reflected in the design of the present project. The project design was tailored to respond
to stakeholders' concerns following active consultations. The project will support the first phase of
customs reform and focus on the implementation of integrated solutions at a national level and local level
(pilot border crossings). The implementation team will be built on the existing EU-Phare PIU within the
GCD. The pilots will stimulate cooperation across borders and among agencies to optimize procedures,
communication links and monitoring of performance. Customs users will receive training and advisory
services to enhance their professional skills. They will be encouraged to voice their concerns and
priorities and will receive accurate and timely information on existing procedures.



Page 14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Romania's commitment to the reforms under the project comes from long-standing interest in legitimate
trade expansion and liberalization and participation in such regional activities as those promoted by SECI.
The potential future EU accession acts as a strong stimulus for reforms. Under SECI, Romania and the
other participating countries declared their strong commitment to facilitate legitimate trade. The Minister
of Finance's initial request, the continuous dialogue with the country and the agreements reached during
project preparation, stand as clear statements of borrower commitment and ownership. The GCD is
actively involved in the project design and components.
The Memorandum of Understanding setting up the Regional Steering Committee for the TTFSE program
was signed by all six countries' representatives in Skopje, on February 10, 2000, confirming project
ownership and commitment towards program implementation and regional cooperation.
Commitmnent at an operational level (border posts, regional directorates) to the reform is less assured and
will be a special point of focus through the pilots.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
At the outset, the commitment of the participating governments to the TTFSE objectives was weak. They
were unwilling to fund border crossing improvements entirely from their own budgets; long-term
financing was more attractive to them. The EU and other donors have limited capacity to fund
infrastructure. As to technical assistance, the governments were (and remain) reluctant to borrow for
foreign technical assistance because of its high cost relative to local salaries. The best solution therefore
was to combine IBRD loan financing for infrastructure with US grants for TA. The fact that the Bank
was willing to finance infrastructure only on condition that Customs reform and institutional
strengthening was carried out in parallel, has reinforced the attention given to the latter. Furthermore, the
Bank through its broader lending and country assistance strategies is well placed to help promote
cooperation and coordination of policies and public spending
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis:
NPV=US$ 5.6 million @ 12%; ERR= 19%
The project would have a fair return/ low-risk profile with a potential for good return. The net present
value is estimated at US$5.6 million on an investment and recurrent expenses of US$27.6 million. Two
benefits have been quantified: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times at border
crossings and inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the project.
Waiting at border crossings is the concrete manifestation of inefficiency in trade related services. In the
European Union customs administrations are required to keep 90 percent of vehicles waiting no more
than 20 minutes, or about 40 minutes to cross both sides of a border point. Romania is expected to take a
few years before it achieves this standard. The difference between present waiting times at Romanian
borders and a target of 40 minutes to one hour to cross both sides of the border has been used as the basis
to test the economic justification of investing in border crossing improvements and equipment. The
savings on transport costs are estimated in excess of US$5.3 million per year after 2005 for vehicles
entering Romania.
Heavy X-ray equipment is justified on the basis of more efficient anti-criminal activities and potentially
increased revenues rather than time-savings.
The reduction in costs to trade and the increased reliability of delivery times are expected to lead, in the
medium run, to a significant increase in trade volumes, which would make use of existing excess
production capacity. Extrapolating from analysis of some specific cases, the trade expansion resulting



Page 15
from the project is assumed to generate a benefit equivalent to 20% of transport benefits. The switching
values and sensitivity analysis confirrn that the project is likely to generate positive returns.
2. Financial and Fiscal:
The fiscal impact of the project is expected to be positive. There is evidence to suggest that the real
volume of trade is much higher than shown by official records, both as to quantities and unit values. The
improved performance of border crossings should provide the basis for a significant expansion of the
official volume of trade and generate additional customs duties and excise taxes.
The Bank will finance all foreign costs, as well as a small part of local costs related to the PMU. The
government will fund almost all local costs, as well as all taxes and customs duties. The government's
share of total project cost (net of taxes) is at the Bank minimum 10% because (i) equipment and technical
assistance make up a large part of the project and entail little local cost; and (ii) the government will
benefit from an additional US$1.4 million in cofinancing from the US.
The project is relatively small for Romania; provision of local funds is not expected to create a problem -
they represent on average less than US$3 million of the annual state budget (see Annex 5). Debt servicing
responsibilities will be fulfilled by the MOF through the GCD; customs is a department within the
Romania MOF. The resulting financial obligations will be small relative to GCD's total revenues.
3. Technical:
The site and building works (Siret border crossing point) include some moderately complex designs or
construction methods. It is important that the designs are scrutinized, not only to minimize costs, but also
to fit the construction time within the project duration. The overall work is complex, involving at least
two large and several small buildings, pumping stations, water treatment plant, sewage treatment plant,
emergency electrical systems, a central heating complex and distribution system, and numerous site
utilities. The construction industry in Romania is developing fast, with some contractors able to compete
internationally. The full-time site supervision services by independent consulting firms to ensure quality.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing Agencies: Project Manager and her Project Management Unit (PMU)
Implementation will be overseen by the Project Manager and her Project Management Unit. The Project
Coordinator will assist the PMU in obtaining the input of the various agencies involved. The Project
Manager will maintain a team consisting of a procurement specialist, an accountant, and a team assistant.
The established PMU will receive technical support from the regional technical advisor, and externally
funded support as needed in relation to procurement. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the
organization, staffing and resources necessary for the PMU to operate satisfactorily. Its full
implementation will be a condition of effectiveness.
The Trade Facilitation Development component will be managed by the Chamber of Commerce and the
Trade Point, in collaboration with government agencies and the private sector. The Chamber of
Commerce has designated the Facilitation Coordinator for this component, while the Trade Point has
provided the website manager.
b. Project Management: Regional Steering Committee
The Regional Steering Committee (RSC), meeting at least once every three months, will oversee the
coordination and implementation of the Program. The RSC will be constituted of high level officials (the
project coordinators) of the participating countries empowered to implement necessary sector policy and
reform decisions.



Page 16
5. Social:
The project will have an indirect impact on the poor. The reduction in border crossing delays will reduce
trade and transport costs, and in turn, the cost of imported goods, leading to benefits to consumers and
lower cost of inputs required for local manufacturing, with corresponding creation of new jobs. This
import effect, however, will be partly offset by losses incurred by local producers when new imports
replace local products.
The project aims at improving access to knowledge related to trade, transport and logistics through the
training extended to the business community. The TTFSE website will allow access to all information
related to border crossings in the six countries involved in the Program, improving to a large extent
transparency, thereby reducing opportunities for illegal payments. The electronic forum under the
website will empower the business community in the region and outside by enabling it to voice its
opinion on the quality of the border services received and propose corresponding recommendations to
smooth trade and transport activities.
6. Environmental assessment:    Environmental Category []A  [ X] B []C
Since the border crossings improvements involve enhancement of existing facilities or construction of
new facilities within developed areas, the Environmental Category is B. Works consist of buildings, pump
stations, water and sewage treatment facilities, control booths and canopies, fencing, utilities and truck
terminals. Removal and disposal of waste and demolition materials should conform to international
standards, and be a contractual obligation.
All designs for station improvements will ensure compatibility with local environmental regulations and
conditions. The project Environmental Management Plan (Annex 10), reviewed with the client, will
minimize negative environmental impact and strengthen coordination and collaboration with the Ministry
of Environment and Waters. The Environmental Management Plan has been included as an annex to the
PIP, and was agreed upon during negotiations. Training will be provided to sensitize operational
personnel in the BCA to environmental issues. In any event, the overall impact of the project should be
positive, since it should lessen waiting times and vehicle emissions from trucks and other vehicles at
border crossings.
The project will enable customs officials to better enforce the terms of international conventions and
agreements relating to the environment. Especially relevant will be the regulations included in such
agreements as (i) the European Agreement concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by
Road (ADR) of September 1957 with its Protocol of October 1993; (ii) the Convention on the
International Trade in Endangered Species; (iii) Convention on the International Carriage of Perishable
Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment to be Used for Such Carriage (ATP) of September 1970; and
(iv) Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their
Disposal of May 1992.
7. Participatory approach:
The project has been designed to reflect the views expressed by principal stakeholders, including such
customs users as truckers and freight forwarders. Bank staff have conducted extensive interviews and
stakeholder analysis to identify trade impediments and their remedial actions. In addition, the activities
planned under the Trade Facilitation Development component will foster opportunities for closer, more
frequent and transparent contact and feedback between Customs and the trading community on a
continuing basis.
In support of the reform of the work culture for the GCD, the project will make available a consultant to
assist focus groups of key stakeholders. This activity will be coordinated with other aid agencies and
existing stakeholder groups (the CCI and ROM-PRO). The Government will also initiate a public



Page 17
information program designed to reach stakeholders and the public. User surveys are envisioned as a
basis for performance indicators. Principal stakeholders, for example truckers, will be also involved to
monitor border delays.  The project and the program will make intense use of the national PRO-
committee and count on its feedback to monitor improvements.
The project has been prepared in collaboration (COL), consultation (CON), information sharing (IS) with
the following:
a Primary Beneficiaries and Other Affected Groups:
* Exporters, importers, producers and consumers (COL)
* Road transport operators and associations (COL)
* Freight forwarders/shippers (CON)
* Foreign investors (IS)
* Ministry of Industry and Commerce (COL)
* Ministry of Finance and General Customs Administration (COL)
* Ministry of Transport (COL)
* National Administration of Roads, National Railway Company (CON)
* Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Romania (CON)
b. Other Key Stakeholders
* The European Union (PHARE), the US, and other development partners
* Private companies (IS) and population in the vicinity of borders (IS)
e IRU and FIATA"2 (IS)
A specialist in participatory methodology will assist in the design and implementation of a Project Launch
Workshop in each country. The specialist will also provide a preliminary action plan, which will be
adopted as a guide for user participation under the Trade Facilitation Development Component (Annex
2). The Action Plan will use output provided by the participants that attended the Project Launch
Workshop.
As follow-up to the Project Launch Workshop, the Action Plan will include, for example, such activities
as a series of user focus groups as well as the user surveys. The focus groups would provide an open
index of user satisfaction. Surveys of such key stakeholders as truckers and freight forwarders would
provide the basis for more quantifiable information as part of the verification plan for the performance
indicators, assuring a central role of such stakeholders in project monitoring. The Project Manager with
the assistance of the Romanian Chamber of Commerce and Industry will be responsible for implementing
the Action Plan. The results would be reported as part of the annual reviews.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will support values that are critical to fulfilling Romania's long-term objective of achieving
sustainable growth. Once these reforms are in place, the sustainability of the effort will be assured by
transparency in customs operations, regular cooperation among border crossing agencies including those
of other countries, and the gains captured by all parties involved in legitimate trade. Continuous
upgrading of the customs services, procedures, management, and equipment based on a reengineered
budget will enable the GCD to cope with trade and traffic growth, technological advance, and continued
compatibility with the EU.
12 FIATA = Federation of International Forwarding Agents.



Page 18
At the level of Romania, the risks of project failure are moderate. At the level of the region, effective co-
operation could greatly enhance the developmental impact, but is subject to much greater uncertainty.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                                          Risk          Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Annex 1. cell "from Outputs to Objective"
The flows of traffic linked to Kosovo will     M     While these flows may be only temporary,
disappear'3.                                        the reconstruction effort will last at least five
more years.
Cooperation between border agencies faces inertia    S    The high-level coordinator will have the
and strong resistance.                               authority to request meetings gathering
involved agencies.
Reducing costs to trade and tariffs will not reduce    M  The EU program of customs compliance and
illegitimate trade.                                  enforcement will reduce significantly this
risk.
Political commitment is not adequate to resist  S    The prospect to join the EU is a strong
pressure groups (public or private) and to ensure    incentive to proceed with the reform.
the success of the institutional program.
Coordination by RSC is not effective and does not   M  Donors are an integral part of the project.
receive participation by donors                      The RSC will include key decision-makers
of each program country and observers from
donor countries.
Regional cooperation issues prevent the        H    The MOU, the RSC, the regional website,
achievement of regional goals.                       the benchmarking and the willingness to
access the EU will create a favorable
environment for proper cooperation.
Annex 1. cell "from Components to Outputs"
The willingness to introduce significant change at    S    The launch of procurement for physical
pilot sites across agencies is low.                  infrastructure components in Years 2 and 3
will be conditional on prior progress at pilot
sites.
The targeting and selectivity techniques are not  M  The effective implementation of targeting
effectively implemented at an operational level.     and selectivity techniques will trigger the
disbursement for some physical
infrastructure components.
Overall Risk Rating                            M     This is a modest risk- fair return
_  operation with a potential for good return
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
13 The Kosovo crisis has affected the Romanian economy and increased the volume of through traffic going to
Kosovo.



Page 19
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Risk                           Type of    Risk   Risk Minimization Measure
Risk     Rating
Delays in institutional changes   G         M      Coordination with the EU
Resistance by some GCD officers   G          S     The GCD has launched considerable efforts
(loss of revenue)                                 to address corruption. The transparency of
requirements using the website will reduce
opportunities.
Corruption in customs system      G         M      TA: Integrated program to strengthen State
capacity in the fight against public
corruption
Type of Risk- S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity),
O(Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
a. Establishment of a Project Management Unit with appropriate staffing, organization, systems
(including a financial management system), funds, facilities, and other resources in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
b. Selection of independent auditors acceptable to the IBRD.
2. Other: (according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
a. By November 15 of each year, the Borrower and the Bank will review progress achieved under
the project, including at pilot sites based on agreed performance monitoring indicators, and will
confirm the implementation program (including procurement packaging) and performance targets
for the following year.
b. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the total number of
customs declarations which result in a physical inspection by the GCD at its pilot inland terminal
does not exceed on a monthly basis (i) 85 percent by September 30, 2000; (ii) 50 percent by
September 30, 2001; and (iii) 45 percent by September 30, 2002.
c. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the number of trucks
completing import clearance in less than 15 minutes at its pilot inland terminal will exceed on a
monthly basis (i) 10 percent by September 30, 2001; (ii) 20 percent by September 30, 2002; and
(iii) 35 percent by September 30, 2002.
d. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the number of trucks
opened at its pilot border crossing of Giurgiu will not exceed on a monthly basis: (i) 40 percent
by September 30, 2000; (ii) 35 percent by September 30, 2001; and (iii) 30 percent by September
30, 2002.
e. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the number containers
opened at its pilot border crossing of Constanta will not exceed on a monthly basis: (i) 65 percent
by September 30, 2000; (ii) 50 percent by September 30, 2001; and (iii) 40 percent by September
30, 2002.



Page 20
f. By March 31, 2001, the Borrower, through its Project Coordinator, will establish a mechanism
across all border agencies to provide the Website Manager with up-to-date information on
waiting times and opening hours at border crossings, Customs Code, by-laws, and procedures of
border agencies; this information shall be binding and made available to customs users in order to
contest a decision at a border post.
g. The Borrower will actively participate in the Regional Steering Committee and inform the Bank
of actions taken at the RSC level which may affect the implementation of the Regional Program
or of measures included in the PIP.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[1 ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  The project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1[]   The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
Program Team Leader/Task Manager: Graham Smith / Anca Dumitrescu, ECSIN
Sector Manager/Director:             Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
CountryManager/ Director:            Andrew N. Vorkink, ECCO5



Annex 1
Romania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Project Design Summary
Nariative Suaxmmary             Key Performance Indicators           Monitoring and Evalu*tion             Critical Assumptfons
Sector-related CAS Goal:
Structural adjustment to    Total trade increasing from US$18.1 billion in  Ministry of Finance     Wealth is distributed appropriately to alleviate
develop an adequate incentive   1999 to US$ 23 billion in 2003.                                     poverty.
framework for private sector
development
Strengthening and rationalizing  Quality of customs services gradually improving    Ministry of Finance  Tax proceeds will be used transparently and
the role of the state       in user survey                                                           appropriately.
Fighting poverty and        Availability of information and training for the  Romanian GCD           Adequate social security net is introduced.
developing human capital.   professional involved in trade and transport  _
Protecting and enhancing the    Better enforcement of enviromnental conventions   Ministry of Waters,
environment                 by the GCD                                   Environment and Forestry
Project Development Objective:
I. Reduce non-tariff costs to    Transport costs for the main commodity traded to   *  Annual sampling by  Business environment such as competitive
trade and transport         the three main trading partners decreasing     Chambers of Commerce      market, post-privatization corporate governance
annually by 2 % on average from year 2001      and evolution of CIF/FOB   and judicial and regulatory systems will be
ratio.                   improved.
*  Study performed at       Reform in the banking/insurance sector will
project completion.      reinforce trade activities. Reduction in tariff
levels and non-tariff costs will enhance trade
incentives.
2. Reduce smuggling and     *  Value of recorded imports increasing from  *  Customs agency annual    Non-customs tax collection will also be made
corruption at border crossings  US$10 billion in 1999 to US$14 billion in  report                    more efficient.
2003                                      *  Annual survey of truckers
*  Occurrence of border corruption (per users  crossing the border
survey) reduced by 2003's.                __                          _
Outputs: (Outputs to Objective)                                                                                                                       oCD 
1.1. Strengthen the institutional  *  Import clearance time at pilot termninal down   *  Logs of Customs  The transport sector will offer a competitive
capacity of GCD and other     from 2 1/2hours in 1999 to 1 hour on average in  *  IRU in cooperation with   enviromnent.
border agencies               2003.
See definition of indicators



.  Physical examination down from 95% in      the National Association of  Cooperation between border agencies will be
1999 to 35% in 2003                         Road Transport Operators   supported by the Cabinet
  Percentage of trucks cleared in less than 15    a  Ministry of Finance  Border agencies will be given the political
minutes up from 5% in 1999 to 45% in 2003  *  Chamber of Commerce    mandate to innovate at pilot sites.
*  Average border exit time down from 120 min.
in 1999 to under 20 minutes by 2003.
1.2. Support customs users  Internet framework and forums set up in 2001 for  Ministry of Industry and  The banking / insurance industry will be able to
private/public sector information exchange.  Commerce (Trade Point)     provide services to the trade sector at a
Internet site visits exceed 300/month in 2001.                          reasonable price.
Current GCD situation available on the internet in
2001.
1.3. Strengthen ICIS to provide  .  Full support to targeting and selectivity by  *  Customs        Information will be used by other agencies for
high level internal and external    December 2001.                       *  Chamber of Comnmerce    the improvement of respective services.
services
1.4. Improve main border    .  All works completed by June 2003.        Periodic surveys of users on    The border crossings selected will remain
crossing facilities                                                     the duration and the        critical in the aftermath of the Kosovo crisis
convenience of border      thanks to their location on main corridors.
crossings (incl. monitoring of
congestion)
2.1. Strengthen on-site     . Irregularities/number of examinations down  *  Ministry of Finance     Reducing costs to trade and tariffs will result in
inspections to prevent        from 20 % in 1999 to 10 % in 2003         *  Customs                  significant regularization of trade.
smuggling                   * Incidents of corruption reduced over project                          Political commitment is adequate to resist
life                                                                  pressure groups (public-private) and ensure the
success of the institutional program.
Project Components!              Inputs: budget for each component15                                          (Components to Outputs)
Sub-components:
A. Customs Administration    US$ 0.8million                              Surveys of Customs Brokers    Border agencies will actively participate in the
Institutional Reform                                                                                implementation of pilots
. Monitoring and review of
procedures
* Implementation of new
procedures
.  Training
B. Trade Facilitation       US$ 0.4million                                                          Other on-going regional initiatives for trade will
Development                                                                                         continue operating.                              o
.  Expertise and Advice                                                                                                                                 _
5 The costs described below are base costs; therefore, they do not include contingencies.



* Training and Seminars
C. Romanian ICIS             US$ 3.4million                                                            The modules for targeting and selectivity will be
*  ICIS software                                                                                       operational nationwide by December 2001.
* ICIS Personnel Training
*  Equipment
D. Improvement of border     uss 22.1 million
crossing facilities
* Expansion of Siret Border
Station
* Modernization of
Constanta customs station
* Security and Cargo
monitoring
* Design/Supervision of
Works
E. Program and Project       US$ 0.5million
Implementation s
* Advisers & Auditors
* PMU consultants &
Operating costs



Annex I
Page 4 of 7
Romania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Performance Tareets
Indicators                       Dec.      Sep. 2000      Sep. 2001     Sep. 2002    Sep. 2003
Act     Targ.   Act   Targ.   Act   Targ.  A   Targ.
_                     ~~~~~~~~~ct
1. GCD Performance
Pilot Inland Terminal of Bacau
Import Clearance Time (min)      165       140            100            70          60
Physical Examination (%)          95       85             50             45          35
Trucks Cleared in Less than 15    5        10             20             35          45
Minutes (%).                                                   .
Irregularities/ Number of         75       50             40             20           15
Examinations (%)
Pilot Border Crossing Giurgiu
Truck Examination (%)             50       40             35             30          25
Irregularities! Number of         20       20             16             13           10
Examinations (%)                                                                 _
Average Border Exit Time (min)   120       90             60             30          20
Average Border Entry Time (min)   90       60             40             30          20
Surveyed Occurrence of
Corruption (%)                 _         _
Pilot Border Crossing Constanta
Container Examination (%)         75       65             50             40          35
Irregularities/ Number of         20       20             16             13           10
Examinations (%)                                  _     _        _     _            _______
Average Border Entry Time (min)    540     400            300            180         120
Surveyed Occurrence of
Coffuption (%)I                                  I     II 
2. Development Objective Achievements
Revenue Collected/Customs Staff    276     300            340            370         410
(US$000)                                                                           I        
Total GCD Cost/Revenue           1.85      <1.5          <1.5            <1.5        <1.5
Collected (%)                                                                      I            I        
Salaries/Revenue Collected (%)   0.63      <0.7          <0.7           <0.7         <0.7
Trade Volume/ Number of staff    3,340    3,400          3,600          3,800       4,000
(US$000/staff)
Annual Number of Declarations/   190       240            400           700          1000
Custom Staff



Annex I
Page5 of 7
Transport Cost for the main        100       100            98             96           94
export commodity traded with the
three main trading partners
(US$- base 100 in 1999)                              _
Value of Recorded Imports         9,987    10,236          10,668         10,961
(US$ million)                            I        I_   _I                   _      _I_ I I
Value of Recorded Exports         8,128     8,378          9,075          9,590
(US$ million)                       28       __837   9_075                9_590_
Source of actual values                 1999
Total GCD Revenue Collected (US$ mil.)          1,498
Total GCD Cost (US$ million)                    27.8
Total Number of GCD Staff                       5,424
Total GCD Salaries (US$ million)                 9.5
Annual Number of Declarations (millions)      1,030,294
Trade Volume (US$ million)                      18,115



Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
Romania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Performance Indicators - Definitions
Indicators                           Descri tion                             Remarks
1. Pilot Sites Clearance Performance
Pilot Inland Terminals
Import Clearance Time   Time between entrance of truck into the   Information on truck identification and time
terminal and its exit from the terminal  of arrival and departure will be recorded with
after release of goods.              the use of computer terminals or time clocks
installed at the terminal entry and exit points.
Physical Examination    Number of times goods are examined or   Information will be derived from the
the cargo compartment is searched    computer system that records all declarations
compared to the total number of import,   and the requirement to prepare an automated
export, and suspense declarations.   report of the results of each physical
examination.
Trucks Cleared in Less  Number of times that a truck completes    Information will be developed using the
Than 15 Minutes         import clearance (time between entry into  same system that provides the data on import
the terminal and departure after release of  clearance times.
goods) in less than fifteen minutes
compared to the total number of import
clearances.
Irregularities/Number of   Number of irregularities discovered  Information will be obtained from the
Examinations            during physical examinations compared to  automated reporting of the results of all
the total number of physical examinations  physical examinations.
carried out.
Pilot Border Crossings
Truck Examinations      Number of entering trucks actually    Information will be compiled through the use
opened (i.e. seals broken) compared to the  of computerized traffic logs and the
total number of entering trucks processed.  requirement to prepare an automated report
of the results of each truck examination.
Irregularities/Number of   Number of irregularities discovered  Information will be extracted from the
Examinations            during examinations compared to the total automated reports of truck examinations.
number of trucks examined.
Average Border Exit Time  For trucks exiting the country, it is the  Information on truck identification and times
time between joining the queue and   will be recorded continuously with the use of
crossing the border. Physically inspected   computer terminals or time clocks installed
trucks are excluded.                 at appropriate locations.
Average Border Entry    For trucks entering the country, it is the    Information on truck identification and-times
Time                    time between crossing the border and  will be recorded continuously with the use of
departing the.station. Physically inspected  computer terminals or time clocks installed
trucks are excluded.                 at appropriate locations.
Reported Occurrence of    Number of cases when a driver makes or  Information to calculate this indicator will be
Corruption              is asked to make an unauthorized payment derived from surveys of truck drivers using
compared to the total number of survey   the crossing point. This survey will be
responses.                           conducted on a continuous basis through
cooperating transport companies.



Annex I
Page 7 of 7
2. Development Objective Achievements
Revenue                 Total revenues collected/Total number of  Information to be obtained from records
Collected /Customs staff   Customs employees                  maintained by the Customs Service.
Total GCD CostlRevenue   Total budget of the Customs Directorate   Information to be obtained from records
collected               (including salaries, overtime, bonuses,  maintained by the Customs Service.
and benefits)/Total revenue collected
irrespective of its destination
Salaries/Revenue collected  Total agency salaries, overtime, bonuses,  Information to be obtained from records
and benefits/Total revenue collected  maintained by the Customs Service.
irrespective of its destination
Trade Volume/Customs    Trade Volume/Number of Customs        Information to be obtained from records
staff                   employees                             maintained by the Customs Service.
Annual Number of        Total number of declarations (import,  Information to be obtained from records
declarations/ Customs   export, suspense regimes, but excluding    maintained by the Customs Service.
staff                   transit), irrespective of the number of
items/Total staff employed by Customs
Regional Performance Indicators
2000       2001       2002       2003        2003
as %of
._  _2000
I. Istanbul-Bucharest    Avg. Time (hours)       80         78          75        71          89
Average Cost         $1,015      $1,000      $975       $940        93
II. Istanbul-Tirana      Avg. Time (hours)       192        189        182        172         90
Average Cost         $2,800      $2,760     $2,690     $2,600       93
III. Sarajevo-Ljubljana  Avg. Time (hours)       40         40          39        38          95
Average Cost          $750        $740       $730       $720        96
Base-year values are estimated by Bank staff for a single 20 ton truck-load, based on a survey of freight forwarders in the
Southeast Europe region






Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
Annex 2
Romania
Trade and Transport Facilitation Project in Southeast Europe
Detailed Proiect Description
(NBF) = Non Bank Financed
Note: All costs in the tables are without contingencies, and do not include taxes
A.  Customs Administration Institutional Reform - USA financed
Total cost with contingencies US$ 0.8 million
Component   Sub :ntent                                  .      e.a.  
.,mp.oent       (U_,,
1. Monitoring   1.1. Monitor     50,000  Refine the set of productivity and workload indicators
and review of  and refine         (NBF)  for each customs functions to measure the performance
procedures     productivity               of GCD, and design the corresponding monitoring
and workload              systems. These indicators should enable the
indicators                comparison between GCD in the region and worldwide.
enabling
international
comparisons
1.2. Designa-    600,000  Draft and test new work methods adapted to the
ted border        (NBF)  specific equipment and layout of the pilot sites, in
stations and              accordance with existing Customs norms and
inland                    procedures, which could be later used at other
Customs                   locations. This includes (i) cooperation initiative with
stations will             other agencies and departments, (ii) working hours, (iii)
serve as test             shift management, (iv) upgrade of technical skills, and
sites for ideas           (v) data management.
to improve
operations.
2. Training    2.1. Inter-      100,000  Will stimulate the proper functioning of border
agency            (NBF)  agencies. Includes
awareness and             (i) sensitization of customs staff to the importance of
training                  environment;
(ii) training of customs staff in elementary veterinary
and phyto-sanitary issues;
(iii) training ofjudges, police and other officials
involved in customs prosecutions; and
(iv) assistance for the implementation of international
conventions related to environment.
Total without contingencies     750,000
(NBF)



Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
B.. Trade Facilitation Development - USA financed
Total cost with contingencies: US$ 0.4 million
1. Streng-     1. 1. Establish   100,000  Design a regional website and mechanisms to update it.
thening of     and maintain a     (NBF)  The website will enable transparency on policies, legal
Private-Public  regional                   and regulatory framework and cooperation at a local,
Partnership    website to                  national and regional level among private and public
support the                parties.
program and                It will offer a comprehensive information resource on
act as a focal             border crossings and inland terminals (pictures), on
procedures of border agencies in the region, and
support the implementation of the TTFSE Program. All
training materials developed under the Trade
Facilitation Development will be made available on the
site. This component includes the equipment necessary
to operate the site.
2. Improve-    2.1. Experts      300,000  Develop and implement a series of distance leaming
ment of the    services and       (NBF)  programs in trade, transport, and logistics focussed on
performance of training.                  facilitating trade. The programs will consist of: (i) a
trade                                      study guide; (ii) study sessions; (iii) reference readings;
facilitation                              (iv) frequently asked questions; (v) exams; and (vi)
agents                                    certification by a lead professional association.
Seminars will be offered for the most critical study
sessions. Materials will be available either
electronically on the website or in the form of paper
copies printed out at the Chamber of Commerce and
Industry.
Total without contingencies      400,000
(NBF)



Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
C.   Romanian Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS) - Bank and GOR financed
Total cost with taxes and contingencies US$2.9 million
Component    Sub                        --Int  etmen
1. Equipment   1.1. Bar code    250,000  Expedited remote entry of data into the automated
for ICIS       equipment for             Customs system to match documents and discharge
improvement   clearance                  procedures. This also allows the Customs officer to
(Hardware)    management                 enter data into the system directly at the truck control
point.
1.2. Equip-     600,000  Purchase of computers connected to the Customs
ment for trade            information system for use by the trading community
information               to (i) obtain the latest information on regulations,
points in                 procedures, rulings and decisions; and (ii)
Customs                   communicate with headquarters and other Customs
stations                  offices.
1.3. Upgra-     750,000  Upgrade of facilities housing computer systems at
ding computer             Customs stations. The contract will include cabling,
facilities at             installation of communication lines and equipment,
Customs                   uninterrupted power supply, generators, climate
stations                  control, and security systems. 12 sites will be
upgraded at an average cost of US$62,500.
1.4. Compu-     200,000  Computers and related software for training Customs
ters and                  officers in the application of computerized operations
software for              to their job functions.
training in an
automated
work environ-
ment
2. Support for  2.1. Manage-    300,000  Off-the-shelf software to enable (i) the management of
ICIS           ment control               departmental internal correspondence; (ii) the
improvement   system for                  dissemination of directives and notices; and (iii)
(Software)     headquarters              standardized reporting.
and regional
offices
2.2. Control     200,000  Preparation of a system to process information
system for                regarding drivers and cargo, for use in screening and
traffic                   expediting border traffic on the basis of previously
movement                  captured data.
3. ICIS        4.2. Regional     50,000  Will enable the organization of half-yearly seminars to
Personnel      experience                 share regional experience in implementing the reform
Training       sharing                    and technical solutions. Each TTFSE country will host
program                   one seminar.
Total without contingencies   2,350,000   _



Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities - Bank and GOR financed
Total cost including taxes and contingencies US$22.1 million
1. Expansion of l .1. Siret    3,100,000   Construction of an expanded station at Siret. The scope
Siret border    Border Station             of work will include site preparation; disconnecting
station         Infrastructure             utilities and demolition of existing buildings; new utility
works at the               lines including power, heating, drainage, water and
main border                sewerage plus new connections and re-connections;
station with               refurbished buildings, including a warehouse, heating
Ukraine                    unit and customs administration building; new
administration buildings for customs and border police
at a dedicated truck processing facility with four entry
and four exit lanes; a truck terminal with parking for
forty trucks; two additional lanes for cars and buses at
the existing facility; new and extended canopies; new
booths; lighting; concrete pavement; and fencing and
landscaping.
1.2. Super-     200,000   To be undertaken by the same consultant in charge with
vision at Siret            the design, to ensure continuity and quality (100%
locally financed).
2. Moderni-    2.1. Fixed X-   3,000,000   One unit (Constanta) for container, truck and car
zation of       ray system                 inspection.
Giurgiu-                                   a. Results of controls will be shared with the Police.
Constanta
customs                                    b. The GCD will prepare detailed guidelines for (i)
stations                                   organization of work, staffing, responsibility, (ii) work
procedures (targeting, links with ICIS, risk analysis,
selectivity), (iii) technical training, assistance,
maintenance, (iv) training abroad on a similar site for
selected officers, and (v) inter-agency and cross-border
cooperation.
3. Enhance-     3.1. Mobile    4,800,000   Two units, similar in use to Item 2 above, but carried
ment of         X-ray systems              within a vehicle, and operated at any border location.
processing                                 a. Will be operated at national level by a unit to be
capacity at                                determined (central enforcement or other headquarters
stations                                   based investigations unit).
b. The GCD will prepare detailed guidelines for
(i) organization of work, staffing, rotation,
responsibility,
(ii) work procedures (targeting, links with ICIS, risk
analysis, selectivity),
(iii) technical training, assistance, maintenance, and
(iv) inter-agency and cross-border cooperation.
c. Maximum utilization of the equipment should be
ensured through site selection based on traffic statistics
and risk assessment.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 
3.2. X-ray     1,300,000  13 units of fixed equipment for examination of boxes,
control                   containers and other objects, that can be used in border
machines                  stations for the non-destructive examination of cargo
unloaded from trucks. The GCD will prepare detailed
guidelines for:
(i) organization of work, staffing, responsibility,
(ii) work procedures (targeting, links with ICIS, risk
analysis, selectivity), and
(iii) technical training, assistance, maintenance.
3.3. Fiberopti-   300,000  20 units for examination in constricted and inaccessible
scopes                    locations such as gas tanks and undercarriages.
3.4.            200,000  25 units used to expedite searches for hidden
Contraband                contraband.
detectors
3.5 Identifiers    500,000   13 units to facilitate targeting of vehicles suspected of
for drugs and             transporting narcotics.
explosives
4. Security    4.1. Video     1,000,000  Closed circuit television system allowing (i) remote
and cargo      system for                 observation of activities requiring Customs supervision,
monitoring     surveillance              and (ii) security and theft prevention.
Total without contingencies    14,400,000
E.  Program and project implementation costs - IBRD, US, and GOR financed
Total with contingencies US$0.5 million
CoiC,pow    :Dt jSub.        Tn.tia                            =til
PMU            Operating        200,000  Includes (i) PMU staffing, including procurement and
costs and                 accounting/financial specialists; (ii) FMS establishment
consultants               and training; and (iii) procurement consultants to PMU
Auditors       Consulting       100,000
services
RSC            Consulting       145,000  Includes (i) RSC secretariat, and (ii) procurement
Secretariat    Services          (NBF)  advisor
Procurement
advisors
Total without contingencies     445,000






Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
Annex 3
Romania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Estimated Proiect Costs16
%     % Total
Components Project Cost Summary                                (US$ Million)    Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Customs Administration Institutional Reform
Monitoring and Review of Procedures                     -       0.7      0.7      100        3
Implementation of New Procedures                        -       0.0      0.0      100
Training                                                -       0.1      0.1      100
Subtotal Customs Administration Institutional Reform      -       0.8      0.8      100        3
B. Trade Facilitation Development
Expertise, Advice & Equipment                          0.0      0.1      0.1      100
Training & Seminars                                    0.0      0.3      0.3       85         1
Subtotal Trade Facilitation Development                 0.0       0.4      0.4       89        2
C. Romanian Integrated Customs Information System         -         -        -
ICIS Software                                          0.0      0.5      0.5      100         2
ICIS Personnel Training                                0.0      0.0      0.1       70
Equipment                                              0.6      1.8      2.4       75        10
Subtotal Romanian Integrated Customs Information Syst   0.6       2.3      3.0       79        13
D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities              -         -        -
Expansion of Siret Border Station                      2.8      0.9      3.7       25        16
Modernization of Constanta customs station             1.0      3.0      4.0       75        17
Enhancement of processing capacity at customs stations  2.4     7.1      9.5       75       41
Customs security and supervision                       0.3      1.0      1.3       75         6
Design/Supervision of Works                            0.2        -      0.2                  1
Subtotal Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities      6.8      12.1     18.8       64       81
E. Program and Project Implementation                     -         -        -
Advisers & Auditors                                    0.1      0.1      0.2       59         1
PMU consultants & operating costs                      0.2      0.0      0.2       15         1
Subtotal Program and Project Implementation             0.3       0.2      0.4       39        2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     7.7     15.7      23.4       67      100
Physical Contingencies                                 0.8      1.5      2.3       67        10
Price Contingencies                                    1.0      0.6      1.6       38         7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     9.4      17.8     27.2       65       117
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding
16 Base costs include taxes.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Components by Financiers                                                                                       Local
IBRD          GOR          USA          Total        For. (Excl. Duties &
Amount  %   Amount %  Amount %   Amount %   Exch. Taxes) Taxes
A. Customs Administration Institutional Reform          -     -       -           -    -        -    -      -      -
Monitoring and Review of Procedures                   -      -      -         0.7 100.0      0.7  2.7   0.7       -
Implementation of New Procedures                      -      -      -         0.0 100.0      0.0    -   0.0      -
Training                                              -      -      -          0.1 100.0     0.1  0.4   0.1       -
Subtotal Customs Administration Institutional Reform                            0.8 100.0     0.8  3.1   0.8
B. Trade Facilitation Development                       -     -       -           -    -        -    -       -     -
Expertise, Advice & Equipment                         -      -    0.0         0.1 100.0      0.1  0.4   0.1    0.0
Training & Seminars                                   -      -    0.0         0.3 100.0      0.3  1.2   0.3   0.1
Subtotal Trade Facilitation Development                 -     -    0.0          0.4 100.0     0.4  1.6   0.4   0.1
C. Romanian Integrated Customs Information System
ICIS Software                                       0.6  100.0    0.0          0.0    -      0.6  2.1   0.6   0.0
ICIS Personnel Training                             0.1  100.0      -           -    -       0.1  0.2   0.0   0.0
Equipment                                           2.0  74.6    0.7  25.4      -    -       2.7  10.1   2.0      -     0.7
Subtotal Romanian Integrated Customs Information Sys    2.7  79.3    0.7  20.7   0.0    -     3.4  12.3   2.6   0.0       0.7
D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities
Expansion of Siret Border Station                   1.4  30.0    3.4  70.0      -    -       4.8  17.6   1.1   3.0      0.8
Modernization of Constanta customs station          3.4  74.6    1.2  25.4                   4.6  16.8   3.4            1.2
Enhancement of processing capacity at customs stations  8.1  74.6    2.8  25.4  -    -    10.9 39.9   8.1         -     2.8
Customs security and supervision                    1.1  74.6    0.4  25.4      -    -       1.5  5.6   1.1       -     0.4
Design/Supervision of Works                           -      -    0.3 100.0     -    -       0.3  1.1      -   0.3      0.0
Subtotal Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities   14.1  63.9    8.0  36.1      -    -    22.1  81.0  13.7   3.2        5.1
E. Program and Project Implementation
Advisers & Auditors                                 0.1  44.1       -         0.2  55.9      0.3  1.0   0.2   0.1
PMU consultants & operating costs                   0.3  100.0      -           -     -      0.3  0.9   0.0   0.2
Subtotal Program and Project Implementation           0.4  70.4       -         0.2  29.6     0.5  1.9   0.2   0.3
Total Project Costs                                  17.1  62.9    8.7  31.8    1.4  5.3    27.2 100.0  17.8   3.6        5.8



Annex 4
Page I of 6
Annex 4
Romania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Cost Benefit Analysis of Total Project Investment
Table 4.1. Summary Economic Benefit from the Project
COSTS          BENEFITS       _
YEAR                                             Net Benefits
(in US$ million)    (in US$ million)    (in US$ million)
2001                    1.4              0.2               -1.2
2002                   12.1              1.3              -10.8
2003                   7.1               3.4               -3.7
2004                   0.5               4.1                3.6
2005                   0.5               3.8                3.3
2006                    0.5              3.9                3.4
2007                    0.5              4.0                3.5
2008                    0.5              4.1                 3.6
2009                    0.5              4.3                3.8
2010                    0.5              4.4                3.9
2011                    0.5              4.5                4.0
2012                   0.5               4.6                4.1
2013                   0.5               4.8                4.3
2014                    0.5              4.9                4.4
2015                    0.5              5.1                4.6
2016                    0.5              5.1                 4.6
2017                    0.5              5.1                 4.6
Total                  27.61            67.6                40.0
Internal Rate of Return                                  19%
|Discount Rate                  |       12% 8
INPV *_ 12%    1             18.31            23.91        9
The Principles of the Economic Evaluation
The border crossings and pilot sites proposed for improvements under this project were selected on the
basis of: (i) high traffic; (ii) geographical location (on international routes); (iii) long waiting time at
present; and (iv) need for upgrading. These border crossings improvements and proposed equipment will
ensure more efficient and transparent border operations, while fitting the more stringent norms of the
European Union as regards anti-smuggling activities. The project was built in close coordination with
local parties, reviewing alternative remedial measures.
The economic cost-benefit analysis compares the economic costs and benefits of the project over the
implementation period and over its assumed 15-year period of expected life. Detailed calculations on
costs and benefits are shown in Table 4.2. All costs and benefits are expressed in constant 1999 prices.
All investment and recurrent costs are net of import duties and of either taxes or subsidies.



Annex-4- Table 4.2                                            Romania
Econormk Cost-Benefit Analysis
(Milliors of US$ in 1999 prices)
FY                                                             2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2002    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014               2015
Costs
Investment and Recurrent Costs
With thcg Proicst
Trade Facilitation Development                        0.2      0.1     0.1
Custorms Adm. Iristittional Reform                    0.3      0.3     0.3
ICIS improvement                                      0.6      1.2     0 9
Siret Border Fadlities Improvement                    0.0    19       2.1
Equipment                                             0.3      6.3     2.8      0A       0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4        0.4
Conutanta BC                                          0.0      2.4      1.0     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1    0D1       0.1    01         0 1
Total With the Proj,t                                 1.4    12.1      7.1
Total Incremental Cos.                                             141   12.1       7.1      0.5      0.5     0.       0.5     0.51    0.5       0.5e   0.5       0.5      0.53   0.5         0.5
Econemic Benefit,
1. TraInsprt Cost ReBuction (withproject)
PilotCwossing                                         01       08     19       28       29      30       31       3.2     3.3      34       35       36      37       38         39
Other Crossirgsosts                                   0.0    01       06      1.3    19      19       2.0      2.0      2.1     2.2      2.2      2.3      2.4      2.4       2.5
Pilot Inland Tentinal                                 0 0      0.1     03       0.5      0 5     0.5      0 5     0 5      0 5      0 5      0.6      0.6      0.6     0.6        0.6
Total                                                 02       11      29       46       53      54       56       57      59       61       63       65      66       68         70
2. Lnpact of Reduced Transport Cost5 on Trade
Trade Beneflits from Trarsport Cost Reduction         0.0      0.2     0 6      0.9      1.1     1.1      1.1      1.1      12      1.2      1.3      1.3     1 3      1.4        1.4
3. Tranusport Cast Readuction (withoutpreject)                                              -14      -2.5    -2.6    -27       -2.8    -28      -2.9    -3.0    -31       -3.2    -33         -3.4
Total Benefits from Ploject                                        0.2      1 3     3.4      411     3.8      3.9      4 40  1 41         3 3    44       45      4.6      4.8      4.9       5.1
Net Benefits from Project                                         -12    -108      -37       36      33       34       35      3.6      3.8      3.9      4.0     411      431    4.4          4
N) ~
o *IA



Annex 4
Page 3 of 6
Costs
The project cost considered for the economic evaluation amounts to US$27.6 million excluding taxes and including
physical and price contingencies. This covers investments and operating costs for the X-ray equipment. It includes
other components under: (a) Customs Administration Institutional Reform; (b) Trade Facilitation Development
measures; (c) Romanian Integrated Customs Information System; and (d) Border Crossing Facility Improvements.
It does not take into account the cost of the program advisors and of the PMU.
Benefits - With Project Scenario
Two benefits have been identified: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times at border
crossings and inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the project.
Trade and transport costs reduction. The savings on transport costs at Romanian border crossings and the inland
terminal under the project would progressively reach about US$5.3 million at the end of 2005. Delays at border
crossings and inland terminals are symptomatic of a number of issues associated with deficiencies in trade related
services: procedural complexity, cumbersome documentation requirements, slow customs clearance steps, scarce
and unreliable information technology and telecommunications, absence of standard service times and inadequate
infrastructure.
Assumptions. The progressive reduction of border crossing time'7 to between 40 minutes and one hour"8 for
incoming traffic has been used as the basis in the economic evaluation of the project. The two pilot border crossings
(Constanta and Giurgiu) and the pilot inland terminal would progressively'9 meet this objective by 2003. Other
border posts scheduled for improvements under the project, but not selected as pilots, would experience similar
waiting time reduction with a lag of one year. The average waiting time for trucks in the "do nothing" alternative is
the mid- estimate as reported by customs users and officials. The average value of time for trucks was obtained
through interviews (US$250/day) and average value of time for loaded containers was estimated at half the daily
value of trucks. Natural traffic growth was estimated at 3 percent under the category "trade and transport cost
reduction".
In order to realize the economic benefit from the waiting time reduction, both the physical investments and the
customs reformn are jointly required because the customs reform alone can not completely reduce the waiting time.
For example, the implementation of new procedures requires additional lanes to allow for traffic segregation,
appropriate space covered by canopies for secondary inspection2-, proper communication capacity with limited
interruption (LAN, WAN, phone, fax), access to power sources to enable computers to function or lighting to be
available during evening shifts. The project will specifically address these border posts where infrastructure or
equipment bottlenecks exist.
Heavy X-ray equipment is justified on the basis of more efficient anti-criminal activities and potentially increased
revenues rather than time-savings. The X-ray equipment will be used as the central component of an enhanced
border targeting process. This equipment appears economically unjustified on the basis of trade and transport cost
reduction only, with negative cash flows linked to the maintenance costs exceeding the annual transport savings. It
saves time on detailed inspections but its impact is mostly felt by enabling significant improvements in the quality,
accuracy and efficiency of physical controls on suspicious shipments.
High risk trafficking routes for narcotics and other contraband run through both Constanta and Giurgiu border
crossings. While Romanian authorities have made a few seizures of narcotics, cigarettes and alcohol, the suspected
activity is much higher. A typical shipment of whiskey generates about US$70,000 in duties and taxes, while a
shipment of cigarettes will bring in approximately US$125,000. The X-ray equipment will enable the authorities to
effect more seizures of smuggled shipments and will also increase the level of compliance by the trading
17 From entering the border area in one country to exiting the border area in the next country.
18 Depending of the specific circumstances at the crossing.
', 5% in 2000, 30% in 2001, 70% in 2002 and 100% in 2003 of the targeted time reduction.
20 Selectivity means not only that not all trucks are inspected, but that those inspected are subject to a far more detailed
inspection than today.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 6
community. While no commercial value can be placed on iilegal narcotics, increased seizures and the deterrent
effect will have a significant impact on the region as well as Western Europe.
Economic Impact of Increased Trade. The impact on trade under the project comes from: (a) reduction in
waiting time at border crossing points; and (b) increased reliability in the delivery of goods. In a competitive
market, these two elements will be reflected in the price of traded goods, and stimulate trade. The increased
reliability of international delivery times will facilitate the integration of local companies into international
production chains.
In the medium run (from 2003) these two elements should enable a significant increase in trade volumes. Such
trade gains are obtained by combining trade creation and trade-substitution effects2l. Imports would be the most
affected initially, since the border inefficiencies bear mostly on imports. However the regional nature of the project
would simultaneously impact exports. Increased import volumes would benefit local consumers (inclusive of local
companies relying on foreign inputs for their production) by increasing their consumer surplus and would create a
loss for some local manufacturers, whose products become replaced by new imports. Increased export volume
would benefit local producers by opening new market opportunities and would reduce local consumer surplus by
reducing the quantity available on the local market at the initial price.
The broad economic impact of cheaper international transport is complex to analyze even in countries with valid
statistical data and requires general equilibrium models taking into account the monetary/foreign exchange impacts
of new trade patterns. Given the current level and quality of data available on the six Balkan countries, such a
detailed evaluation would not be realistic. The outcome of various studies on this phenomenon shows these
additional benefits ranging between 20 and 30 percent over the transport savings generated. For the purpose of this
evaluation, 20 percent was considered as the most appropriate.
Exhibit 4.1 provides an at-a-glance summary of trade for Romania.
Benefits - Without Project Scenario
If the project were not taking place, reform efforts supported by the EU would continue to be implemented. The
differential between the "with project" and "without project" scenarios in terms of costs includes only the project
costs described above. The EU support would enable the Customs services to partly achieve the objectives of this
project on a delayed schedule. The benefits associated with the "without project" scenario were subtracted from the
benefits in the "with project" scenario to obtain the project benefits. It was estimated that, without the project, 25
percent of annual project benefits would be achieved in 2003, 40 percent in 2004 and onwards. The absence of
needed infrastructure and targeted pilot focus without Bank's financing would impose a limit to the efficiency that
could be achieved, explaining that only 40 percent of the savings could be reached without the project.
Sensitivity Analysis on EIRR
Tables 4.3. presents the various assumptions tested and their influence on the economic internal rate of
return of the project.
21 The trade creation effect is the increased demand in the importing country for a commodity from an exporting country,
resulting from the price decrease associated with the elimination or reduction of distortions. Trade substitution accounts for the
tendency of importers to substitute goods from one source to another in response to a change in the imnport price of supplies from
one source.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
Table 4.3. Sensitivity Analysis
,O: -dY*Ed- --: -:--                EIRR              EIRR
Daily Truck Value (US$)              24%               13%
Trade Related Savings                20%               18%
Traffic Volume                       23%               14%
Investment cost (-)                  25%               14%
Investment cost (-) and Traffic
Volume                               30%               11%
Table 4.4. Switching Values (for IRR @ 12 percent)
Daily truck value (US$/day)               175
Trade related benefits coeff. <|O3
Traffic volume/existing
traffic                      70%/o
Minimum Time
Savings/projections (in %)              70%/o
The internal rate-of-return for the project is fairly robust. The achievement of at least 80 percent of the objectives
of time savings will enable a return beyond 12 percent. The projected rate-of-return remains above the opportunity
cost of capital in most cases unless both investment cost runs higher by 20 percent and traffic volumes drop by 20
percent simultaneously.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
Exhibit 4.1. Romsnla Goods Trade Outlook (1998)
TRADE INDICATORS                                                                                              Trade tE5 mnJ
1994  L995    1996        1997       1998                            B94    1995    199        1597     W9S
Exports (FOB) inUSS milhion    6,151   7,910    8.085         8,431    8,302                  7,080  4F          B      l              r
Imports (CW)inUSS mion         6.562   9,487   10.555        11,280   11.838                  SIM8   _ .
Balance on Goods                -411   -1.577   -2,470       -2,849   -3,536                  3,oe8
TotalTrade of Goods           12,713  17.397   18,640        19,711   20,140                  i,e__
Growth exports (%/)                      29%       2%           4%      -2%                  -
Growth Trade volume             16.5  37.0%       7.0%          6%       2%                          3Expot-G1B FIny &Brt-Go&FOB
Growth rates ofes ports and mpons (
Real GDPinUSS bilion            27.3    28.2       31.9        32.1      38.2              40 -
Exports as % ofGDP                       28%      25%          26%      22%                30 -
Imports as % of GDP                     -34%      -33%        -35%/o    -31%
Trade balance as % of GDP                -6%       -8%         -9%       -9%               20
Trade as% ofGDP                          62%      58%         61%       530/o              10
0
94       95        96        97       98
-o--FExports -Impots
TRADE STRUCTURE
1998 expwrts by main chapters, mnlhen USD                                       Main exports, 1998                   Main imports, 1998
Clothing (1,953). Pig-iron, iron and steel (865).                              (total USD 8.3 bIn, fob)            (total USD $11.8 bin, fob)
Footwear, headgear and the like (608). Furnittre, iWgting apparatus
and siml items (473), Nuclear reactors, boilers, mechanical                             F                                        B
macbines and devices (432)                                                                                              F      23.0%
1998 imports by man chapters, miDion USD]                                      C        /        A                           1
Nuclearreactors, boiers, mechanical machines and devices (1,516),        |A                    %                     (      A \         i14.2%
Mineralfiaels and oils, bitauninous matenials (1,431)                                                             E            A
Maciinery. apphances and electric materials, sound and video-                 89.6                       4       8.7%
recorders and players (1.207). Transport means (485).                        A - Textiles & footwear  B - Machinery & equipment
Plastics and articles thereof (392)                                          C - Minerals & fuels    D - Base metals & products
E - Chemical products   F - Others
TRADE DIRECTION
Exports, %          Import, %                    Export parters                       Import partners
1996    1998        1996        1998        (total *xport USD 8.3 bin, fob)         (total USD 11.8 bin, fob)
Erase.
uropean Union                56.5    64.5         52.3        57.7                                                                    7 35
CEFTA                          3.6     4.4          4.7         8.8                        |t4v
Others                        42.9    31.0        42.9         41.8            /l\l
incl Russia    2.0%    0.9         12.5         8.9                                                                 1.1s \V4I
Gernms1
Road trafElc to and fiom EU, thsous.totnes                                                                    4us444
1992    1998                                                        Fiance      4.7us
Exports     2,243   4,389                                      Turl          r U7
Imports     3,186   3,071                                      2.gx,       4.1%
External trade is higbly important to Romania; it constitutes about 53% of its GDP. The economy has run external trade shortages, averaging 7% of GDP since 1990,
after having experienced trade surpluses in the 1980s. The trade deficits have been caused by drasticaly reduced unprofitable export activities.
A larger portion of the trade is with the EU, which accounted for about 60%o of the total value for both exports and imnports. Imports sales from the EU are dominated
by textiles and other materials directly linked to outward processing arrangements. Central European countries supply macbinery and equipment, while Russia and
developing countries supply energy and raw materials.
It is expected that trade with Central European countries wffl increase folfowing Romania's accession to the CEFTA. At the same time Russia's importance as a market
is decreasing.
Sources: National Bank of Romania, Natonal Comission for Statstcs, EIU, World Bank



Annex 5
Annex 5
Romania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Financial Summary
Project Components Cost and Financing Plan By Year
Total including Contingencies
(US$ Million)                                          Totals Including Contingencies
FY2001  FY2002 FY2003  Total
A. Customs Administration Institutional Reform
Monitoring and Review of Procedures                      0.3    0.2    0.2    0.7
Implementation of New Procedures                         0.0    0.0        -    0.0
Training                                                 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1
Subtotal Customs Administration Institutional Reform       0.3    0.3    0.2    0.8
B. Trade Facilitation Development
Expertise, Advice & Equipment                            0.1    0.0    0.0    0.1
Training & Seminars                                      0.2    0.1    0.1    0.3
Subtotal Trade Facilitation Development                    0.2    0.1    0.1    0.4
C. Romanian Integrated Customs Information System
ICIS Software                                            0.2    0.3    0.1    0.6
ICIS Personnel Training                                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1
Equipment                                                 0.6    1.2    1.0    2.7
Subtotal Romanian Integrated Customs Information System    0.8    1.5    1.1    3.4
D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities
Expansion of Siret Border Station                                2.3    2.5    4.8
Modernization of Constanta customs station                 -    3.2    1.4    4.6
Enhancement of processing capacity at customs stations    0.3    6.8    3.7   10.9
Customs security and supervision                           -    1.5    0.0    1.5
Design/Supervision of Works                                -    0.1    0.2    0.3
Subtotal Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities         0.3   14.0    7.8   22.1
E. Program and Project Implementation
Advisers & Auditors                                      0.1    0.1    0.1    0.3
PMU consultants & operating costs                        0.1    0.1    0.1    0.3
Subtotal Program and Project Implementation                0.2    0.2    0.2    0.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         1.9   16.0    9.4   27.2
Project Financing                                      FY2001 FY2002 FY2003   Total
IBRD                                                      1.0   10.2    6.0   17.1
Government                                                0.3    5.3    3.0    8.7
USA                                                      0.6    0.4    0.4    1.4
Total Project Financing                                    1.9   16.0    9.4   27.2






Annex 6
Page 1 of 7
Annex 6
Romania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The following procurement arrangements will apply to all contracts wholly or partly financed by IBRD.
General. Goods and works wholly or partially financed by IBRD will be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant's services wholly or partly financed by
IBRD will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in January 1999. Standard documents published
by the World Bank will be used by the PMU for the preparation of bidding documents and request for
consultant's proposals.
Procurement of Works. Civil work contracts estimated to cost more than US$ 0.5 million will be financed
under International Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB).
Procurement of Goods. Contracts for the supply of goods valued at US$100,000 or more will be procured
under ICB.
Prior and post review by the IBRD for Goods & Works contracts. All IBRD financed goods and works
contracts. All other contracts will be subject to post review.
Procurement of Consulting Services. Recruitment of consulting firms for the ICIS software training system
will be carried out under the Quality and Cost Based Selection method (QCBS) in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines. For financial audits the Least Cost Selection (LCS) method will apply. PMU staff and FMS
establishment will be covered under incremental operating costs. Short-term consultant services to PMU will be
procured according to Section V of Consultants Guidelines for individual consultants. Consultants for ICIS
personnel training will be selected based on qualifications. Costs associated with training for the PIT staff in the
Bank and other training centers will be financed from the consulting services category.
Prior and post Review by the IBRD for consultants' contracts. All consultant contracts awarded through
competition expected to cost above the equivalent of $100,000 per contract with firms and $50,000 per contract
with individuals will be subject to prior review by the IBRD. All other competitively awarded contracts below
these thresholds not subject to prior review will be subject to post review. All contracts not awarded through
competition and all Terms of Reference (TOR) will be subject to prior review.
Procurement Implementation Schedule and Advance Procurement Actions. The GCD and IBRD'agreed on
the procurement plan (Table B2) at appraisal; and the Plan has been finalized during negotiations. This timetable
will be used as a basis for monitoring of procurement processing. In particular, the following advance
procurement actions have been identified and are hereby proposed to the GCD as critical milestones so that
main contracts can be signed soon after Loan effectiveness: (a) submit draft Specific Procurement Notice for
the construction works and provision of goods by May 15, 2000; (b) submit Terms of Reference, short lists,
Letter of Invitation (LOI), and draft model contract for consulting services by May 31, 2000. All notices to be
published in the UN Development Business should be submitted to IBRD at least 45 days prior to publication.
A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$ 100,000 has been made available to GOR to finance establishment
of the PMU (including the financial management system and staffing with a procurement expert and an
accounting/financial expert), and short term consultants to assist PMU for the preparation of terms of reference
and design specifications for services, goods and works required to implement the project. All PMU staff
salaries, and the FMS will be financed from the category of incremental operating costs, and the short term
consultants and PMU staff training from the category of consulting services and training.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
Disbursement
Disbursement. Disbursements against the categories described in Table 6.C will be made upon receipt by IBRD
of fully documented applications, except for contracts valued at less than US $0.5 million for works, US $
100,000 for goods, US $100,000 for consulting firms and US $50,000 for individual consultants, as well as
operating costs which will be made against certified statements of expenditures (SOE). Training will also be
disbursed under SOE. Supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained by the Borrower and made available
to IBRD during supervision. The minimum size of application for direct withdrawals and issuance of
commitments from the IBRD Loan account would be 20 percent of the amount of the Authorized Allocation to
the Special Account.
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will establish a Special Account in one of
the major foreign commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to cover the Bank's share
of expenditures. The Authorized Allocation will be US$1 million, representing about four months of average
expenditures made through the Special Account. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation to
the Special Account will be limited to an aggregate of US$500,000. However, when the aggregate
disbursements under the Loan have reached the level of US$2 million, the initial allocation may be increased up
to the Authorized Allocation of US$1 million by submitting the relevant Application for withdrawal.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account may be submitted monthly or when one-third of the
amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment will
follow the standard Bank procedure as described in the Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6. Monthly bank
statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower will accompany all
replenishment requests.
Project Accounting and Financial Management. A financial management system (FMS) including
accounting, financial reporting, planning, budgeting, auditing, and proper internal control systems will be
established prior to effectiveness. The FMS has met the minimum Bank financial management requirements (4-
B LACI Certificate) prior to board presentation. The Bank has reviewed the FMS and prepared a certification
according to the model presented in the Loan Administration Change Initiative Implementation Handbook. The
certification reflects the status of the FMS, the project-related issues and is accompanied by proposed remedial
actions to enhance the system and enable the development of appropriate project management reports. The
Bank has defined a time-bound action plan to specify the steps necessary for: (i) board presentation; (ii) loan
effectiveness and (iii) further strengthening of procedures and staff development during implementation. The
FMS will be compatible with OP/BP 10.02 and with the Project Financial Management Manual, published by
the Bank. The development of the FMS will be monitored by the Bank before effectiveness, during the first
supervision mission and throughout project implementation.
The PMU has been staffed with an accountant/financial expert acceptable to the Bank. The company installing
the FMS will assist the PMU in establishing and maintaining project accounts adequate to provide information
regarding project resources and expenditures. The PMU will have accounts audited every fiscal year by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with International Standards of Auditing issued by
the International Federation of Accountants and Bank guidelines. The reports of such audits will be submitted to
the Bank no later than six months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. The PMU will also maintain all
documentation related to project expenditures and keep financial records in accordance with sound accounting
practices. A management letter giving an opinion on internal audit controls should be submitted to the Bank six
months after effectiveness of the loan.
Accounting and auditing. An independent auditor acceptable to IBRD should conduct an annual audit of the
project's account. Terms of reference for the annual audits of the project accounts will be agreed upon at
negotiations. Certified copies of these audits would be submitted to IBRD within six months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year. Certified copies of the auditors' report would be retained by the PMU for subsequent
review by IBRD missions.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements22 (in US$million equivalent)
Procurement Arrangements                International  National
Competitive
Bidding       Other    N.B.F.  Total
A. Civil Works                                   4.8            -       -     4.8
(1.4)          -             (1.4)
B. Equipment & Goods                            20.1            -     0.0    20.1
(15.1)                       (15.1)
C. Consultant Services & Engineering               -          0.7     1.2      1.9
(0.4)       -   (0.4)
D. Training                                         -         0.1     0.1      0.2
(0.1)       -   (0.1)
E. Operating costs                                  -         0.2     0.2     0.3
(0.2)      -   (0.2)
24.8         1.0      1.4    27.2
(16.5)       (0.7)           (17.1)
N.B.F. =    Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel co-financing procedures)
Consultant Services and Engineering, Training-other: See Table A 1
Operating costs-other: See Table 6 B.
22 For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations.' Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where
applicable).



Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (in US$million equivalent)
Consultant Services                        Selection Method                          Total Cost
Expenditure Category                                                                 (including
contingencies)
QCBS      QBS      SFB      LCS      CQ      Other   N.B.F.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ (IC )   _ _ _
A. Firms            0.3                         0.1      0.1               1.2      1.7
(0.2)                       (       (0.1)                      (0.4)
B. Individuals                                                    0.1      0.2      0.3
.                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(0 1)  (0 1)
Total 0.3                         0.1      0.1      0.1      1.4      1.9
(0.2)                       (0. 1)    (0. 1)    (0. 1)         (0.5)
Note:   QCBS =    Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS =      Quality-based Selection
SFB =      Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS =      Least-Cost Selection
CQ  =      Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other =    Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. =    Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan



Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review2"
Section 1: lProcurement Review
Element (Goods/Works)             ICB               NCB               IS                 NS              Other methods
1. Procurement method thresholds    $500,000 (works).  N/A            N/A               N/A             No objection on an
$100,000 (goods)                                                      annual budget for
operating costs
2. Prior Review                   All contracts.    N/A               N.A.               N.A.            N.A.
Element (Consultant Services)     QCBS / LCS        Section V                                            Other methods
3. Procurement method thresholds    100,000
4. Prior Review                   >$100,000         >$50,000
5. Ex-post Review                 The Bank will monitor procurement activities, contract management and project record keeping during
._________ _    periodic supervision missions. 20% of contracts will be ex-post reviewed.
S    _con 2.apgcity of the Tmplemegfint Ay  iJ Pr*qreIgo* aud Teu   Asaitatce requirew0#
6. Brief statement: Romania has many years of experience in implementing Bank projects. Procurement of works, goods and services has been
satisfactory. Primary responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement procedures will rest with the Project Management Unit located
in Customs Administration.
7. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper  8 Are the bidding documents for the procurement
status: Country Procurement Assessment Report for Romania has been prepared and  actions of the first year ready by negotiations?  No
submitted to the Government for discussion (pending)
Section 3 Training, Info mtion -and Developieot on Procurment.
9. Estimated date of Project  10. Date of General         11. Indicate if contracts are subject  12. Domestic  13. Domestic
Launch Workshop: June 1, 2000  Procurement Notice update:  to mandatory SPN in Development  Preference for    Preference for
April 16, 2000             Business:  Yes                   Goods: Yes       Works: No
14. Retroactive financing No                                                  15. Advanced Procurement (PPF)    Yes
16. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System:
The PMU within the GCD will oversee all procurement activities under the project and will ensure procurement is done in accordance with World
Bank procedures. Procurement reports will be submitted by PMU to the Bank quarterly. PMIU will be assisted by a procurement advisor, funded by
donors.
Sction,4. Procurement Stafring
17 Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project Team:          Division: ECSIN        Ext. 33306
Els Hinderdael
18. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: Field Office will provide back-up on procurement issues to project team
oO  X
23 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 'tReview of Procurement Documentation' and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Annex 6, Table B32: Procurement Plan
BankNoObj: Nov. 1,2000       2. Opening: January 15, 2001
3. Eval. & Recoin.: March 15, 2001
Equipment for  G           5      1.1        ICB              N/A           Draft to Bank: Nov. 30, 2000    1. Invitation: SPN: January  14,2001  Junel 15, 2001   May 1,2003
ICIS                                                                        Bank No Obj: Jan.15,2001     2. Opening: March 1,2001
improvement                                                                                              3. Eval. & Recom.: May 15, 2001
Hardware &    G           1      0.3        ICB              N/A           Draft to Bank: Sept. 30, 2000    1. Invitation: SPN: November 14,2000  April 15,2001   September 1,2001
soft forsuT                                                                 BankNo Obj: Nov. 14,2000    2. Opening: January 14,2001
training                                                                                                 3. Eval. & Recom.: Marchu 1,2001
Trafficcontrol  CS         I      0.2         QCBS            N/A           DrafttoBank: Feb. 15, 2001   1. Invitation: SPN: April 1, 2001      Sept. 1,52001      Aprilc1, 2002
system study                                                                Bank No Obj: April 1, 2001   2. Opening: June 1, 2001
3. Eval and Recom: Aug. 1, 2001
ICIS            CS         1      4.8         CQ              N/A           Draft to Bank: Dec.31,2000    1. Invitation: SPN: February 15,2001  July 15,2001       March31,2003
Personuel                                                                   Bank No Obj: Feb. 15, 2001   2. Opening: April 15, 2001
Training _ _                                                                                             3. Eval & Recom: JunelS5,2001
Siretborder     CW         3      4.8        ICB              N/A           Draft to Bank: Nov. 15,2000    1. Invitation: SPN: January 5, 2001  May 15,2001        June 1, 2003
station                                                                     Bank No Obj: Jun. 1, 2001    2. Opening: Februarye 1,2001
3. Eval. & Recom: April 15, 2001
X-ray           G          3      14.4       ICB              N/A           Draft to Bank: April 20,2000    1. Invitation: SPN: June 1,2000     Dec. 15,2000       December 15,2002
equipment                                                                   Bank No Obj: June 15, 2000    2. Opening: September 1, 2000
3. Eval. & Recom: November 15, 2000
Customs        G           3      1.5        ICB              N/A           Draft to Bank: April20, 2000    1. Invitation: SPN: June 1,2000     Nov. 15,2000       September 1,2001
stations                                                                    Bank No Obj: June 1,2000     2. Opening: August 1, 2000
equipment                                                                                                3. Eval. & Recom: October 1,2000
Surveillance    G          1      1.5        ICB              N/A           Draft to Bank: April 20,2000    1. Invitation: SPN: June 1, 2000    Nov. 1, 2000       September, 2001
video system                                                                Bank No Obj: June1, 2000     2. Opening: Aug. 10, 2000
3. Eval. &Recom: October1, 2000
Auditors        CS         I      0.1         LCS             N/A           Draftto Bank: April1, 2000   I.lInvitation: SPN: MaylS, 2000        OctoberlS5,2000    June 30, 2003
Bank No Obj: May 15,2000    2. Opening: July 15, 2000
3. Eval. & and Recom: Sept. 15, 2000
PMU            N/A         4      0.1         N/A             N/A           TOR: Feb. 20,2000            1. Invite CVs: March 1,2000            May 8,2000         December 31, 2003
operating.                                                                                               2. Eval & Recom: March 15,2000
costs: staff
&FMS
PMU            CS          3      0.1        IC               N/A           TOR: March 15,2000           1. Invite CVs: April 30,2000 & as      May 15,2000        December 31, 2003
consultants.                                                                                            necessary                               (first)
PMU staff      CS        N/A      0.015      N/A(*)           N/A           May-October, 2000
training
Total                             25.5
GPN issued June 16,1999; GPN update: April 16, 2000
CW= Civil Works, G= Goods, CS= Consulting Services, TR= Training, QCBS= Quality and Cost Based Selection, LCS= Least Cost Selection, CQ= Selection based on consultants'
qalifications, IC= Individual Consultants, (*)  costs associated with PMU training in the Bank and other training centers
-Ij



Annex 6
Page 7 of 7
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Allocation of Loan proceeds
IBRD
(US$ Million)                           Loan              Disbursement
Amount
1. Civil Works                         1.3                  30%
2. Equipment, Goods and materials      13.6    100% foreign, 100% ex factory and
84% of other local expenditures
3. Consulting services & trainings     0.4                  100%
4. Operating Costs                     0.1                  100%
5. Project Preparation Advance         0.1                  100%
Unallocated                            1.5
Total                                    17.1
Loan amounts financed by IBRD






Annex 7
Annex 7
Romania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Proiect Processin! Budizet and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned             --Actual
(At final PCD stage)
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     8 months
First Bank mission (identification)           03/21/1999           03/21/1999
Negotiations                                  04/03/2000           04/18/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  10/01/2000             / /19
Prepared by: MOF, GCD and Bank Team
Preparation assistance:                  Magdalena Kusemileva
Dammika Somasundaram
Marie Laygo
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Graham Smith                             Program Team Leader
Anca Dumitrescu                          Operations Officer, Task Manager
Gerald Ollivier                          Transport Specialist
Stephane Dubos                           Engineer
Alessandra Iorio                          Counsel
Aly Abu-Akeel                            Counsel
Kenneth Miller                           Sr. Disbursement Officer
Els Hinderdael                           Procurement Specialist
Bogdan Constantinescu                    Financial Management Specialist
Pedro Taborga                            Sr. Economist
Kenneth Gwilliam                         Principal Transport Economist (Peer Reviewer)
James Walsh                              IMF (Peer Reviewer)
Consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Michel Zamowiecki                        Customs Specialist
Ivan Taborsky                            Customs Specialist
Philip Moeller                           Office Team Leader/Environmental Specialist



Annex 8
Annex 8
Romania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Documents in the Proiect File *
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Management Information System: Bulgaria- Croatia- Romania
Trade Facilitation Component - Romania
Customs Institutional Reform: Bulgaria- Croatia- Romania
Economic and Financial Analysis of the Project.
Technical selection of border crossings
Financial management action plan
Procurement capacity assessment
C. Other
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Page I of 2
Annex 9
Romania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As of March 31, 2000
(in US Dollars Millions)
Closed Projects: 6
Difference Between
Last PSR                                                      Expected and Actual
Board
Date                                              Supervision Rating            Original Amount in USS Millions       Disbursements a'
Fiscal                                       DvlpetIpeetto
Year  Active Projects   .bDevelosmnt Imlementstion                             IBRD        IDA     Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig. Frm Rev'd
1994    P008784   EDUCATION REFORM                  S             S               50           0          0     23.34    23.34          0
1994    P008774   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPME              S             S              175           0        55      45.48    100.48    100.48
1994    P008777   PETROLEUM SECTOR REH              S             U             175.6          0          0      87.3      87.3         0
1995    P008776   (ESPP) EMPLOY. & SOC. PRO         S             S              55.4          0          0     39.84     35.74         0
1996    P008794   POWER SECTOR REHAB.               S             S              110           0          0    101.13    100.88         0
1996    P036013    RAILWAY                          S             S              120           0          0     58.23     48.23         0
1997    P008795   ASAL                              S             S              350           0          0     138.9      150    142.26
1997    P008778   BUCHAREST WATER SUPP              S             S               25           0          0     11.77     10.27         0
1997    P008793    HIGHER EDUCATION                 S             S               50           0          0     37.13     37.13      6.63
1997    P039250   SECOND ROADS                      S             S              150           0          0     69.69    -20.31         0
1998    P055495   CHILD WELFARE REFORM              U             S                5           0          0       4.8       2.6         0
1998    P034213   RO GENERAL CADASTRE               S             U              25.5          0          0     24.37      2.37         0
1998    P044614   SCHOOLS REHABILITATION            S             S               70           0          0     68.57     20.87         0
1998    P008788   TELECOMMUNICATION                 S             S               30           0          0     25.83     15.45         0
1999    P058284   CULTURAL HERITAGE                 S             S                5           0          0      4.96      2.46         0
1999    P039251    PIBL                             S             S               25           0          0     23.73      0.73         0
1999    P064853   PSAL                              S             S              300           0          0      150       150          0
1999    P049200   SOCIAL DEVELOP. FUND              S             S               10           0          0       8.9        4          0
2000    P043882   AGR SUPPORT SERVICES              S             S                11          0          0        11         0         0
2000    P056337   MINE CLOSURE                      S             S              44.5          0          0     44.27      1.77         0



Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 2/29/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                    Disbursed
FY Approval Company         Loan Equity Quasi Partic  Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1999 Ambro              9      0      0      0     0      0      0      0
1998 Banc Post          0      0    10       0     0      0    10       0
1998 Bilstein Compa   2.51     0      0   2.51  2.51      0      0   2.51
1996 Danube Fund        0      2      0      0     0      2      0      0
1998 DemirRomania       5    3.2      0      0     1   2.55      0      0
1997 EfesBrewery       11      0      5      8    11      0  3.76       8
1998 FCRFund            0     10      0      0     0     10      0      0
1998 Garanta            0    0.2      0      0     0    0.2      0      0
1998 Krupp Compa      7.03     0      0   3.01  3.34      0      0   1.43
1997 Mobil Rom         40      0    10    160.  40        0    10    160
1997 Rambox           1.74     2      0      0  1.74      2      0      0
1994 Romlease           0    0.3      0      0     0    0.3      0      0
1998 Small Bus. Loan    5   0.02      0      0     2   0.02      0      0
Total Portfolio:     81.28  17.72    25 173.52 61.59  17.07 23.76 171.94



Annex 10
Page I of 3
Annex 10
Romania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Environmental Management Plan
1. Overview:
Since the Trade and Transport facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) Project is unlikely to have
significant environmental impacts, the project has been rated accordingly as Category B. To prevent,
minimize or mitigate site specific negative impacts, however, this Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
and a set of mitigatory measures have been prepared. Upon review with the client government it will be
signed as an attachment to the PIP.
2. Minimization of negative impact:
The major concerns about possible negative site-specific impacts associated with border crossings relate
to: (i) emissions from vehicles waiting for customs clearances; (ii) drainage of disinfectants and spills of
oils and fuel; (iii) waste disposal and loose garbage; and (iv) site disruptions caused by upgrades or
relocations of utilities or such infrastructure as buildings, parking/waiting areas, and access roads.
The objective of the TTFSE, to reduce constraints on traffic flows at border crossings, including the
simplification of paperwork and reduction of processing times, will correspondingly reduce standing time
and vehicle emissions from trucks and other vehicles. Processed and road-side waste, garbage and litter
will also be reduced and better managed. The small scale of physical investment, largely limited to the
improvement of in-place facilities, offers only limited potential threat. Specific actions included in the
EMP (see Exhibit 1) to further minimize potentially negative impact and promote institutional
development include:
*        liaison with environmental authorities;
*        training and sensitization;
*        site certification;
*        consultations on the harmonization of standards; and
*        provisions in construction contracts.
a. Liaison with Environmental Authorities
Contacts between the General Customs Administration (GCD) and the Ministry of Forests, Waters, and
Environmental Protection (MoFWEP) need to be intensified.  This will be achieved through the
appointment of an environmental officer in the GCD who will be responsible for liaison, monitoring and
reporting relating to environmental issues and the EMP to the Project Management Unit (PMU) of the
TTFSE. 24 Incorporation of the functions of the environmental officer into the overall, long-term
responsibilities of the GCD will be reviewed as part of the reform and capacity building processes of the
GCD. Environmental issues will be included in the public information program to be provided by the
GCD.
b. Training and Sensitization
The GCD environmental officer, in collaboration with the MoFWEP, will assist the TTFSE training
consultant in the design and provision of training and sensitization for the GCD staff relating to the
importance of environmental issues and protection. Standard procedures and guidelines based on the
24 The MoFWEP has already designated the member of its staff to provide liaison with the TTFSE.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
national environmental regulations will be developed. In coordination with the appropriate associated
ministries and agencies providing control functions at the border such specialized training in support of
veterinary and phyto-sanitary pre-inspections will be designed. Training on the control of the hunting and
gathering of endangered flora and fauna will also be covered.
c. Site Certification
In order to promote acceptable practice and the minimization of environmental impact at all stations, the
GCD environmental officer, jointly with a representative of the Ministry of Forestry, Waters, and
Environmental Protection will inspect all border crossings scheduled for investment under the projected or
marked as pilot sites. The MoFWEP will review the capacity and appropriate jurisdiction to participate in
these inspections. On the basis of satisfactory compliance with regulations and procedures a letter of
certification of compliance will be issued. Particular attention will be given to assure corrective
procedures relating to (i) the use of disinfecting pits at border crossings, (ii) the storage and use of
disinfecting materials and chemicals at the sanitary and disinfecting sites, (iii) the control of waste
materials including hazardous materials, and (iv) the control of road-side litter and garbage.
d. Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
The project supports the harmonization of standards with those of the EU. Particular attention will be
given to those relating to hazardous materials. The environmental officer will consult with the Ministry of
Forests, Water, and Environmental Protection to ensure progressive application of appropriate standards
and to ensure collaboration with relevant environmental programs and activities funded by the EU.
Progress in this area will be regularly reported to the PMU and included in reports to the Bank. In
addition, the project will also enable customs officials to better enforce the terms of international
conventions and agreements relating to the environment.
Especially relevant would be the regulations included in such agreements as (i) the European Agreement
Concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR) of September 1957 with its
Protocol of October 1993; (ii) the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES); (iii)
the Convention on the International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment to be
Used for Such Carriage (ATP) of September 1970; and (iv) the Basel Convention on the Control of
Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal of May 1992.
e. Provisions in Construction Contracts
In accordance with existing national environmental regulations, environmental reports will be prepared
to examine the potential negative environmental impact and suggest mitigation measures for any new
construction under the TTFSE. These reports would be prepared by the GCD or a qualified consultant and
submitted for review by the MoFWEP. The acceptance of and clearance for payment by the PMU for
work contracted under the TTFSE would be dependent upon the presentation of such details and a
description of supportive action if such was recommended by the MoFWEP. All contracts would contain
clauses requiring the minimization of noise and dust during construction.



Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
Exhibit 1
Liaison with            The GCD will designate an environmental officer who in collaboration with
Environmental          the PMU will be responsible for: (i) liaison with environmental officials of
Authorities             the Ministry of Forests, Waters, and Environmental Protection; (ii) the
review and monitoring of the EMP; (iii) the provision of periodic status
reports to the PMU; (iv) consultations with such interested parties as NGOs;
and (iv) and the provision of support for supervision missions. The
government will assure that the GCD environmental officer has -access to
information relevant to the project and environmental compliance.
Training and            The GCD in conjunction with environmental officials of the Ministry of
Sensitization           Environment and Waters will provide training and sensitization of staff at
each border crossing. Standard procedures will be specified. Special
training will be offered for pre-inspection skills in such related areas as
veterinary and phyto-sanitary inspections and in support of the protection of
endangered species.
Certification of        The Ministry of Forests, Waters, and Environmental Protection jointly with
Acceptable Practice at   the GCD environmental officer will inspect all border crossings scheduled
Border Crossings        for investment under the TTFSE or marked as pilot sites for certification of
the acceptability of practices and minimization of environmental impact at
all stations. Particular attention will be given to (i) the use of disinfecting
pits, (ii) the storage and use of disinfecting materials and chemicals at
sanitary and disinfecting sites, (iii) the control of waste materials including
hazardous materials, and (iv) the control of road-side litter and garbage.
Harrnonization          One of the goals of the project is to assist hannonization with EU and
of Standards            international standards. The GCD environmental officer will consult with
the Ministry of Forests, Waters, and Environmental Protection periodically
on progress and provide progress reports to the PMU. The GCD
environmental officer will ensure compliance with evolving regulatory
requirements and conventions.
Construction            Designs for new construction or remodeling will include environmental
reports with plans for the minimization of negative impacts. Contract
documents will contain clauses requiring minimization of noise, dust, and
waste disposal during construction. All works will comply with local
environmental regulations where applicable.



Annex 11
Annex 11
Romania
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
European Union Support Proeram to Romanian Customs Reform (2000 - 2002)
Total: EUR 8million
Activities            Descriptioni of d roposd  Aciitisrlvn t thde Project 
1. Customs Systems    Includes: (i) introduction of an internal support and security structure
Stabilization         capable of harmonizing and standardizing the installed operational
(EUR 1.4 million)     systems; (ii) development and implementation of an Integrated
(EUR 1.4 million)  Administration System capable of efficiently managing and
standardizing the Customs operational system; (iii) development and
implementation of a methodology, tools and procedures capable of
managing the distribution of new application versions, new modules
and configuration changes; (iv) implementation of formal disaster
recovery procedures and associated systems in the Customs
operational environment; (v) identification and standardization of
Interfaces with all appropriate external systems.
2. Further improvement  Includes enhancement of the National Transit System, the ICIS
of the Operational    Customs Accounting Module, the ICIS Management Information
Customs Business      System, and the regional level management of the ICIS;
(EUR 4.6 million)     Communications; enhancement and automation of the ICIS Manifest
System; implementation and integration of the ASYCUDA post entry
module; introduction of Suspense regimes, simplified SAD; and
extension of ICIS to new local Customs offices.
3. Fight against Fraud   Includes enhancement of the Enforcement System.
(EUR 0.4 million)
4. Trade and Revenue   Includes: (i) development of an interface with the statistical processing
Customs Business      system; (ii) development of post entry modification reporting module;
Information           (iii) enhancement of Customs valuation management; (iv)
(EUR 0.45 million)    enhancement of production and accuracy of Customs statistics.
5. Customs Training   Includes implementation of Customs training organization, and
System Set-up         Customs IT training.
(EUR 0.65 million)
6. Trade Facilitation  Includes: (i) implementation of Customs Internet website; (ii)
(EUR 0.5 million)     development of DTI/ EDI policy; (iii) Customs EDI.



Annex 12                                                          Annex 12
Romania                                                         Page 1 of 2
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Romania at a glance
Europe &   Lower      _
POVERTY and SOCAL                                          Ceafta   middl:-
Roaani       AIs    In          Development dlamond'
PopBiatl0n, midyear (1/*i)                         22.$       473                          Life expectancy
GNP per capft (AU meh   USS.                       1,390     2,190    1.710
GNP (Aasf lme     US$  bsioIO                       313      1,039    1,557
Aveage annual grwth, 1992-98
Populatlott N#J                         .           g0.2       Ot       tl   . GNP                              Gross
L8I)o?fol )                       -42.3                        0.6-     f.5  -  per r                          pnary
Moat owoent estimate (latestaravaabl, 1t99248)               - -capita                                      enrollment
Povety (% optata n beoweaffonal poverty lQe          -0
Urban populaJ f% oftoteapopwa40n                     57        so        58
Liuaexpect    at biths                              6          9         8.
Infant mnrtaft  twO0 Ai bsiths)                      22        23        38
ChVl mOfuiX       (% of  hIWftw under6    .                     ..       .,              Access to safe water
AoCess toae water W(; ofpopt      ,     II           98         ..       7S
lnfltera(% oppopulato age 15+)                        3                  14       -Romania
Gros primary erolimet (% otfhool-epapg   fotn)       97       tRa 103
Male                                               97       101       105             Lower-n2idile-income group
Fema    --                                         97        99g      100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM` TENOS
197    1987       1991      1998
Econormic ratioe
GDP (USS bwill                                .    38.1       32.1     38.2
Gros domesliclnvestmen!GDP                 w9.      31        21.5    -177                    Trade
Export of goods and services/GOP                   26.6      29.      - 25.7
Gross domest savinWGDP                              40.6      14.6      9.2
Gros national savins/GDP                     ..    40.0       15.2      9.s
Currentaccountalan(GP                        ;.     5.4       -6.7     -7.8  Domestic                       Investment
Interest paymet/WP                           .,      1.3       1.5      1.4     Savings                           ent
TodewG0p                                      .,    171       30.7     25.A
Tota debtseve!exofs                         1.0l -  21.9      15.1     22.8
Present value  debYGDP                       ..       ..      2S.4
Presentv     of debvexpcrts                  ..       .,      94.4
Indebtedness
197747  19696    1997         1S9B   1999.0    -
(averag annual grwh)  ......... .
GDP                                3.1   -23        -8.6      -7.5     -4.6            -  Romania
GNP per capita                     2,5    -2,2    -6,5        - S. t ,                  -  Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods am ses              ..     2.5      2.1       2.5      2.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and invweatmnt t%)
(%S of GDP)                                                                     20
Agriculture                                  ,.    14.2       19.6     16.4    10
Industry                                     ..    57.2       44.6     40.1
Manufacturing                              ..       ..      30.5      29.9     0
Services                                     ..    28.6       35.8     43.4   .10
Private consumption                           .    50.5       75.4     76.1            93   94  9s   go   97   go
General govemment consumption                ..      8.9      10.1     14.7                    GDI         D*GDP
Imports of goods and services                ..    17.8       36.7     34.2
1977-87  1988498     1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  ..      0.6       2.2     -9.5    20
Industry                                     ..    -3.2       -7.7    -10.1
Manufacturing                              ..       ..      -4.9    -11.4     10
Services                                     ..    -3.5      -11.0     -4.5
Private consumption                          ..      0.4      -6.2     -3.3
General govemment consumption                ..      3.5     -10.6     14.1   .10
Gross domestic investment                    ..    -7.6      -14.3    -30.0            93     94   es  9g   97   99
Imports of goods and services                ..      2.1      -4.6      5.2              -Exports        D0Importa
Gross national product                      3.1    -2.5       -6.7     -8.3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 12                                                          Annex 12
Romania                                                         Page 2 of 2
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997      1998      Inflation()
Domestic prices                                                                    30
(% change)                                                                         300
Consumer prices                                 ..                                           10.9  154.8  59.1    200  '
Implicit GDP deflator                        -5.9      6.1      146.7     46.6
Government finance                                                                                      t      _0
(% of GDP, includes current grants) o
Current revenue                                 .    50.4        30.4     34.3              93   94   BS   96   97   es
Current budget balance                                31.6        1.1       0.4                -GDP deflstor         CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                               15.2       -3.6     -4.0    __GDP deDator                    _P
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..  10,491      8,431    8,302     12,000
Common metals and articles                    ..       ..    1,556      1,583
Mineral products                              .        ..       638      508      9,000
Manufactures                                  ..   7,570      5,139    5,238
Total imports (cit                             ..   8,313    11,280    11,838       6,000       i 'I        I    t i '
Food                                                 ill11      426      523      3, 000
Fuel and energy                                    4,722      2,408     1,687
Capital goods                                 ..   2,101      2,975     3,206        o
92  93  94  95  96  97  98
Export price index (1995=100)                           77        87
lmportpnce index (1995=100)                             95       105         .                 Exports        Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                               82         82        ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1977    1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and services               7,357   11,261      9,955    9,519      0
Imports of goods and services               7,529    8,828    12,349    12,798
Resource balance                             -172    2,433    -2,394    -3,279
Net incomre                                  -132     -390       -322     -392
Net current transfers                         -          0       579       753
Current account balance                      -304    2,043    -2,137    -2,918    -6
Financing items (net)                         -30   -1,002      3,802    2,075
Changes in net reserves                       334   -1,041     -1,665      843
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..       ..    4,671      3,789
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                ..    22.2   7,787.7   8,875.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997      1998
(US$ rr iltions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          756    6,580      9,832     9,832
IBRD                                       288    2,039      1,392     1,443
IDA                                           0        0         0         0                G: 19         A: 1,443|
Total debt service                             76    2,493      1,844     2,246
IBRD                                         17     373         99       150                                    C:539
IDA                                           0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                   D: 681
Official grants                               0        0       108
Official creditors                          154     -430       598      -185
Private creditors                             0   -1,023      1,059      362          F  4,262
Foreign direct investment                     0        0      1,224    2,040                                     1,718
Portfolio equity                              0        0       883       130
World Bank program
Commitments                                 237        0       620        66      A- IBRO                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               145        0       399       153    hB-IDA      D-tOthermultilateral   F-Private
Principal repayments                          0      215        29        68      c - IMF                      G - Short-tem 
Netflows                                    145    -215        371        84
Interest payments                            17      158        70        81
Net transfers                               128     -373       301         3
Development Economics                                                                                                  9/9/99



oat, -  -                         '/1                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 30918
"Misklo    '5                                                 Cena
IA  .,~~~~~~~~Qr.                    ylre~~~~~~~~~~~~yIraaa                    ,.,                    WS~~~~~~~~~~~~~iret            '     \\ a
;.o            Ma,ba                                                           Kr                                  ljLap  a\caem
A-lI u bl id  f   Wacelj ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~    iM  t "                              acaa 
Mcllevacfit        *      Br~slaoi g,3,,rI 
Lae Luka      Dataej  Racc                                                        7'-
C.     >HERZEG~NI   NIA 
Q.              split \     ~~~~Grude     %Sar0l ev0~            SEe M                rk
Tern,                  a        zi~~~~~~~~E~~-  DDoIjani   f~~~e, 
Pescara~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dbihf
7  /  Dabrevelk %../  t I              ~~~~~~                                                                                       ~~Se
SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION ~         ~           ~           An"
SUHATEUROPE PROECTO
@U INPEATSTE PROJECT                                                                                                                                                  Z r
DESIGN PROJECT
4 PLOT INLAND TERNANARS                                                             LKAN 
  COMBRINED PILOT AND INFRASTUCTURE                                                 K7       r
~0:~ PAN EUROPEAN TRANSPORT CORRIDORS
-   MAJ.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ErBrsk 
0 MAIN CIflES~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                 -
-*-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                            so 5    100    150    200          A                                                                                                      -Baliksr 
I            LLOMETEda&ACNa4UT.AASa
UaRfrd eaEarge e aIR.ipra1.ale are IlaaUae<I.  -  RLQETfl~~~RS  $lkel                           2                       ~ayar,MaaaacIIaIaeaI,IaIaaya,aagMAYy,






IBRD 30919
MANY~~~~~~~~~~,A' ~                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION
&JKRAINE                                 ~~TRADE AND TRANSPORT
FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
EUROPE PROJECT
4, 14 Oxork  999o419'9,    ~  o~~  -"   ~         ~~'  ~- ~  -   ~<          "36                                    F-     ~       oC\7                                                                        MAIN  TRADE PATTERNS
~~2  $1400 $1400  >  $1500 $1700   0~4~  ~   9~29,0              4944       ~$1628 $206                                                                                                          IMPORT AND EXPORT PATTERNS (1 998):
9  02999,  '4 90"       I99904S                       4049 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1503215 0/32EXPORTS 145$, Md-,                                                                                                                     IMORS ,o1   M-
~~~29~~~~~  %.9~~~~~~~~A  $ 300  ~ ~ ~        ~           ~         ~          ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         ~        ~               94~~~I                             T ~p
32 $722                                                                                            F-                                                                   cc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Co9nPnOO27    ,oo.nL8b.
10/2 70/2                                                                                        R-i- F.                                                                  (US$i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~ 10  o 94i~9999J  24".02  Orn~  210091
$43572                                                                                                                                             62_,
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
5002 $1500
E,p.on  1p9000:   14$3610929.                                                                                                                                                 <                           MAIN  MACRO-TRADE INDICATORSi
$36 $102      550$3           O N" --002                                                                                                                                                                   GDP PER CAPITA, 1998 (Us$)
40/                                    .~n'/i.?4.,                                                                                         $01
44 ~~~yn<        . ~   $700 $900                                             6"00ooo
$2000
9999   0                                                                                                                                                                                               $1000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
429/                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24/A 24/4 <,   52055  10   180 20224Fdo650
""'A   driatic  -.                                    ,-  5~~~~~~~~          ~~           ~~                    ~~700 700  24'i9'/ $55$
$ea                                '249'4.9    02                      17$                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BULGARIA         $14W20/386
$1600      7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  0
<4..~~~~~~~~~~~~~BN                                                                                                                                                                      BUGAI____46_.  13
AROATIA             29005           0.    0100
FYOSNI DONA &        .1    0.       15    12810
$149 ~     ~      9~40                      -4-   j'~-90<"                                               ROMANIA             38.2    0,3   11.0   1295
$4.  II17503.                                                   "'''0p)   192/09294949                                                                                                                     V "9
2949/7.0                          .49                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.x   2  2$50    99'    4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                 100           200           300
994~~~~    ~ ~ ~ ~ >  '  98/24 144/34 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 44    , ~~~~~  ~~"'  ~ ~ ~                                                 4          I                KILOMETERS~~KIOMEER
K,,9,  ~   ~        942<4                Aegean              ~        ~         2     T j        K      Y00999 94944440 99929~ 2 9999
MAY 2000



