                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 29700

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (PPFB-P3720 SCL-45600)

                                         ON A

                                        LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$11.4 MILLION

                                          TO

                                       ROMANIA

                                        FOR A

                     TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION PROJECT




                                     May 19, 2005




Infrastructure and Energy Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective June 2004)

            Currency Unit = Romanian Lei (ROL)
                   ROL 1 = US$ 0.000029
                    US$ 1 = 33491.0 ROL

                  FISCAL YEAR
             January 1    December 31

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APL           Adaptable Program Lending
ASYCUDA       Automated System for Customs Data
BCP           Border Crossing Point
BP            Border Police
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CCI           Chamber of Commerce and Industry
EU            The European Union
ECMT          The European Conference of the Ministers of Transport
EDI           Electronic Data Interchange
FIATA         Federation of International Forwarding Agents
FMS           Financial Management System
GCD           General Customs Directorate
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GOR           Government of Romania
ICIS          Integrated Customs Information System
IRU           International Road Transport Union
IT            Information Technology
LAN           Local Area Network
MPF           Ministry of Public Finance
MOFWEP        Ministry of Forests, Waters, and Environmental Protection
MOU           Memorandum of Understanding
MTCT          Ministry of Transport, Construction and Tourism
NCA           National Customs Authority
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PMU           Project Management Unit
PMR           Project Management Report
QER           Quality Enhancement Review
RSC           Regional Steering Committee
SAD           Single Administrative Document
SECI          Southeast European Cooperative Initiative
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
TIR           Transport International Routier
TOR           Terms of Reference
TTFSE         Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
UNECE         United Nations Economic Commission for Europe

USA                 United States of America
WAN                 Wide Area Network
WCO                 World Customs Organization

                 Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
              Country Director       Anand Seth, ECCU5
                Sector Director      Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager       Anca Dumitrescu, ECSIE


                                     Note: This document is a revision of Report No:
                                     29700 issued on December 21, 2004; the revision
                                     was made on the basis of relevant additional
                                     information.

                                          ROMANIA
                    Trade & Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            31

Project ID: P065041                                                  Project Name: Trade & Transport Facilitation in
                                                                     Southeast Europe
Team Leader: Anca Cristina Dumitrescu                                TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Trade & Transport Facilitation in Southeast              L/C/TF Number: PPFB-P3720; SCL-45600
                            Europe
   Country/Department: ROMANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Regional integration (P); Legal institutions for a market economy
                            (S); Other rule of law (S); Administrative and civil service reform
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/20/1999                                     Effective:                           11/06/2000
     Appraisal: 05/21/1999                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/13/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Ministry of Finance/General Customs Directorate
                      Other Partners:      Romania Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Trade Point

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Andrew N. Vokink
Sector Manager:                 Motoo Konishi                                  Eva Molnar
Team Leader at ICR:             Anca Dumitrescu
ICR Primary Author:             Anca Dumitrescu; Philip
                                Moeller; Sati Achath; Madhu
                                Nair


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The original objectives of the US$27.2 million (Loan US$17.1 million) project were to: (i) reduce
non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and (ii) reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings. The
project formed part of a regional program for Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe that
aimed to strengthen and modernize the customs administrations and other border control agencies in
Romania, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, and the FYR of Macedonia. Serbia and
Montenegro, first, and then Moldova joined the program later, bringing the total to eight countries. The
program was the result of a collaborative effort among the Government of Romania (GOR), the Bank, the
European Union (EU), and the United States of America (USA).

The objectives were straightforward, clearly stated, important to the country's economic and social
development, and realistic in scale and scope. The program was responsive to Romania's priorities in light
of the need to assist Customs and other border regulating agencies in meeting EU standards, thus
facilitating EU approximation and subsequent accession. This was a major factor in country ownership.
These objectives were expected to be achieved by: (i) supporting Customs reform; (ii) strengthening
mechanisms of interaction and cooperation between border control agencies and the trading community;
(iii) disseminating information and providing training to the private sector; (iv) financing infrastructure and
equipment at selected border crossings; and (v) implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of new
customs procedures, information technology, human resource management techniques, supporting
infrastructure, and cooperation mechanisms for the agencies at border crossings.

The project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Romania, discussed by
the Board on May 9, 1997 (Document No. 16559-RO). It was also in line with two priority areas outlined
in the Government's strategy document `Development 2000 Program', namely: (i) promoting structural
reform and private sector development to further liberalize trade, eliminate direct government participation
in the sector, and establish the prerequisites for efficiency in markets; and (ii) strengthening and
rationalizing the role of the State, including de-licensing, regulatory and tax simplification, and competitive
privatization, especially to reduce the opportunities for corruption.

The project design reflected lessons learned from earlier projects in Romania and other countries. For
example, the Transit Facilitation Project in FYR of Macedonia highlighted the need to: (i) tailor the
complexity of the project's design to what can be achieved under a single loan; (ii) ensure the capability of
implementing agencies; (iii) address issues perceived as real priorities by the borrower; and (iv) maintain
flexibility to ease implementation. The Turkish Public Financial Management Project underlined that
involvement of high level political decision-makers was important for achieving the project objectives.
Finally, the project design assumed that the reforms to be undertaken were the beginning of a longer reform
process that would continue beyond the life of the project for a total of eight to ten years.

The project envisioned the following social and economic benefits: (i) Customs reform and transparent
Customs procedures would lead to lower trade and transport costs, which in turn would reduce the prices of
imports for consumers and make exports more competitive; (ii) the reduction in border crossing delays
would lower the cost of inputs required for local manufacturing, with a corresponding creation of new jobs;
(iii) the TTFSE website would allow access to all information related to border crossings in the eight
countries involved in the program, improving transparency, and reducing opportunities for illegal
payments.




                                                      - 2 -

The project took appropriate measures to mitigate the following five major risk factors that could affect
implementation: (i) Cooperation between border agencies faces inertia and strong resistance: the
high-level coordinator identified for each participating country was given the authority to request meetings
gathering involved agencies; (ii) Regional cooperation issues prevent the achievement of regional goals:
the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), the Regional Steering Committee (RSC), the regional website,
the benchmarking and the willingness to access the EU was expected to create a favorable environment for
proper cooperation; (iii) The willingness to introduce significant changes at pilot sites across agencies is
low: the launching of procurement for physical infrastructure components in Years 2 and 3 was conditional
on prior progress at pilot sites; (iv) Coordination by the RSC is not effective and does not receive
participation by donors: donors were an integral part of the project, and the RSC included key
decision-makers of each program country and observers from donor countries; and (v) Resistance by some
General Customs Directorate (GCD) officers for fear of loss of revenue: the GCD had launched
considerable efforts to address corruption; the transparency of requirements using the website would reduce
opportunities.

The project was not very complex in terms of design or implementation. It was very demanding, however,
because: (i) it required a high level of government commitment and good coordination among all border
agencies; (ii) the Trade Facilitation component was implemented by two entities, namely by the Trade Point
under the Ministry of Trade for the website and by the Chamber of Commerce for training activities; (iii)
the project had a multi-sector approach, whereby one institution (i.e., Customs) was responsible for
coordinating activities of other independent government departments; and (iv) it required coordination with
other complementing projects financed by other donors, including the USA and the EU.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of five components, all related to achieving the project's objectives. These were
standard components replicated in all TTFSE projects. The Project Management Unit (PMU) had sufficient
technical, administrative and financial capacity for successful implementation of these components. The
following is a description of each one of the project's components.

Component 1. Customs Administration Institutional Reform (US$0.8 million: 3.1% of the total
project)

   Assistance to monitor GCD's performance;

   Assistance to streamline operations at two border posts and one inland terminal on a pilot basis; and

   Training for interagency awareness and cooperation (This technical support complemented the ongoing
    EU activities to help implement the GCD's reform strategy).

Component 2. Trade Facilitation Development (US$0.4million: 1.6% of the total project)

   Provision of technical assistance and advisory services to trade and international transport participants
    through the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Using parallel grant funding from the US State



                                                     - 3 -

    Department, this component was modified after appraisal to reflect the strategic priorities of the donor,
    which included: utilization of Pro-Committees (trade and transport facilitation committees) for the
    website, greater emphasis on conventional training, exchange programs to the US for senior officials
    and private sector representatives. Funding for the website was reduced to 20 percent of the original
    cost estimate;

   Improvement of cooperation between public and private parties by using a virtual forum (the TTFSE
    regional website) developed by the Romanian Trade Point; and

   Provision of equipment to support information availability.

Component 3. Improvement of Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS)(US$3.4million: 12.3%
of the total project)

   Hardware for ICIS;

   Software and assistance for information system improvement;

   A regional program of experience-sharing; and

   An inter-departmental information system, for stimulating regional and interagency cooperation.

Component 4. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities (US$22.1 million: 81% of the total project)

   Civil works for expansion of the Siret border crossing (on the corridor from Turkey to Kiev);

   Equipment for the modernization of the Constanta customs station, and for enhancement of processing
    capacity at this and other major customs stations; and

   Supervision of civil works.

Component 5. Program and Project Implementation (US$0.5million: 1.9% of the total project)

Providing the services required to support the regional and national implementation of the project. At the
regional level these consisted of secretariat services to the RSC, and at the national level the auditors, the
PMU staff, the establishment of a financial management system, and training to the PMU.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Satisfactory. The ICR deems the quality at entry to be satisfactory and the project as well conceived. There
was no official assessment of the quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG).

QAG conducted a Quality Enhancement Review (QER) before the appraisal. QER commented that the
                                                           1


project lacked clarity in objectives, was excessively complicated, and promised too much. It recommended



                                                     - 4 -

lowering overall expectations, coupled with a rise in expectations with respect to specific components,
combined with a strengthening of ownership on the part of the clients. It suggested that Customs should
become a partner in the project, rather than a target. It also suggested that the project should emphasize its
regional nature, by getting these countries to talk to each other. According to QER, regional coordination
was the key objective of the project, and the specific means for doing this was through efforts aimed at
lowering the transaction costs of trade moving across the national boundaries.

QER also recommended that project design: (i) define Trade Facilitation as a regional aspect of the project
and introduce a specific set of activities associated with its implementation; (ii) provide or ensure a
permanent focal point at the strategic management level to oversee trade facilitation development; (iii) build
a strong implementation capacity at the national level that would ensure that all the relevant agencies
actively participated in the project and that donor activities be well coordinated; (iv) reach an agreement
with the clients on an action program that can be undertaken within the three year time frame of the project
(This included an agreement on performance indicators); (v) consider the use of an overall project
document that would set the regional stage and provide the rationale for the specific interventions proposed
in the individual Project Appraisal Documents (PADs); and (vi) give in the PAD, a less overwhelming
presentation of the EU role with its emphasis on customs reform and give more importance to the EU's
partnership with the Bank for achieving the project goals. The comments and recommendations from the
QER were incorporated into the final design of the project, and additional time was given to build the
recommended ownership by the stakeholders.

As mentioned in the earlier section, the project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the
Government priorities and met the critical needs of Romania's trade and transport sector. Since the PMU
had the technical capacity, the quality of project design was generally adequate to meet the project's
objectives. During preparation of the project, major risk factors and lessons learned from other earlier
projects in Romania and other countries were considered and incorporated into the project design.

The project was prepared in collaboration and consultation with importers, exporters, producers and
consumers; road transport operators and associations; freight forwarders/shippers; foreign investors; the
Ministry of Industry and Commerce; the Ministry of Finance and General Customs Administration; the
Ministry of Transport; the National Administration of Roads, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of
Romania, and Trade Point. In addition, consultations were done with such other key stakeholders as the
EU, (PHARE), the UNECE, and the US Government; the population in the vicinity of borders; the
International Road Transport Union (IRU) and the Federation of International Forwarding Agents
(FIATA). This kind of extensive stakeholder consultation, and the participatory process in project
preparation substantially contributed to the quality and readiness at entry.

During project preparation, three project designs were considered:

   Regional Program of Investment Projects: A regional program of coordinated border crossing
    facilitation projects was more advantageous and was selected since it was expected to: (i) generate
    substantial spill-over benefit to Customs users, producers, and consumers in the trade partner countries
    of Romania; (ii) allow the program countries to share information and introduce more consistent
    customs and border control procedures/operations; (iii) be flexible enough to respond to country
    differences, the pace of European integration, and the impact of the EU enlargement process; (iv)
    enable the Bank to coordinate with other donors that also implement regional programs; and (v)
    minimize project implementation/supervision costs by near-simultaneous implementation.




                                                     - 5 -

   Separate Individual Projects Carried Out by Each Country: The possibility of preparing independent
    projects for each participating country was reviewed and rejected since the achievement of overall
    project objectives would be greatly aided by simultaneous standardization and harmonization of
    cross-border institutions, operations, and legal frameworks among countries and with the EU.

   Regional Adaptable Program Lending (APL): A regional or "horizontal" APL, would have enabled
    sequential entry of countries in the Program. This horizontal APL, however, was judged to be
    unfeasible because: (i) such delegation by the Board was thought unlikely; and (ii) the determination of
    the future value of performance indicators to include potential borrowers to the program would have
    been a delicate and risky task, given the inherent complexity of the program.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Satisfactory. The project met its development objectives to: (i) reduce non-tariff costs to trade and
transport; and (ii) reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings. This is evidenced in the following
more detailed discussion of performance indicators.

After about three and half years of implementation the project resulted in such very positive achievements
as: (i) significant reduction of waiting time at both the borders and inland clearance terminals as a result of
streamlined procedures, the introduction of selectivity and risk analysis, and better inter-agency cooperation
and awareness; this is reflected below in the indicators' results; (ii) improved dialogue with Customs
administrations in Southeast Europe region, and in particular with neighboring Bulgaria, leading to joint
border control teams; (iii) increased revenue collection as shown by the national performance indicators,
and a reduction of smuggling through use of selective examination and border control equipment; (iv)
constant monitoring of performance through indicators leading to the building of a regional data base.
These indicators enabled the Customs administration to measure its performance over time. Additionally,
and equally important, the performance indicator database enabled comparison of Customs (and border)
performance among neighboring countries against benchmarks; (v) user surveys published for 2002 and
2003 on the TTFSE regional website; (vi) training of SMEs' staff through the Trade Facilitation
component; (vii) development and maintenance of a regional website on trade and transport facilitation (
http://ttfse.org) for the benefit of the trading community, transport operators, and foreign direct investors;
and (viii) favorable preliminary evaluation of the economic impact of the regional program.
The overall project risk rating was modest; however, some such specific risks as resistance to cooperation
by some border agencies remained well into project implementation. In mid-2002 and mid-2003 the project
encountered several short-term problems. These were raised in supervision reports to management, and
were quickly resolved. The closing date of the project was extended by six months to enable finalization of
a civil works contract.

A. Customs Administration Institutional Reform

(a)    National Performance Indicators. During the project implementation, the development objective
indicators made substantial progress as shown below:




                                                      - 6 -

                                          December    December       December      December      December
                 Indicators                  1999        2000           2001          2002          2003
                                             Act.   Targ.    Act.   Targ.   Act. Targ.   Act.   Targ.  Act.
                                        Development Objective Achievements
 Revenue Collected/Customs Staff             276     300     346     340    429   370     545    410    839
 (US$000)
 Total GCD Cost/Revenue Collected (%)        1.85    <1.5    1.72    <1.5   1.5   <1.5   1.55    <1.5   1.1
 Salaries/Revenue Collected (%)              0.63    <0.7    0.73    <0.7   0.6   <0.7    0.5    <0.7   0.5
 Trade Volume/Number of Staff                3,340  3,400   4,178   3,600  7.242  3,800  7,289  4,000  9,720
 (US$000/staff)
 Annual Number of Declarations/Custom        190     240     248     400    320   700     379   1,000   439
 Staff
 Transport Cost for the main export          100             100            100          38.3          80.0
 commodity traded with the three main
 trading partners (US$-base 100 in 2001)
 (%)
 Value of Recorded Imports (US$ million)     9,987  10,236 11,512 10,668 16,352 10,961 17,846     -   24,003
 Value of Recorded Exports (US$ million)     8,128  8,378   9,529   9,075  15,616 9,590 13,853    -   17,618
 Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption2 (%)      100             100            100           66           116.9



  The revenue collected/customs staff increased from $276,000 in 1999 to $839,000 in 2003, more than
   double the target of $410,000 set for 2003. The significant increase in revenues collected by Customs
   can be attributed to both acceleration in trade/imports, and to improved performance of Customs staff
   in the detection of irregularities and smuggling through streamlined procedures and use of detection
   equipment, supported through the project.

  Total GCD cost/revenue collected (%) was 1.1, meeting the target of <1.5. This ratio was 1.85 in
   1999.

  Salaries/revenue collected (%) was 0.5, meeting the target of <0.7. In 1999 this ratio was 0.63.

  Trade volume/number of staff ($000/staff) increased from $3,340,000 in 1999 to $9,720,000 in 2003,
   which was more than double the target of $4,000,000.

  Annual Number of Declarations/Custom Staff increased from 190 in 1999 to 439 in 2003, even though
   it fell short of the target of 1000.

  Transport Costs for the main export commodity traded with the three main trading partners (US$- base
   100 in 2001) decreased to 38.3% in 2002 and 80.0% in 2003.

  Value of Recorded Imports: The value increased from $9,987 million in 1999 to 24,003 million in
   2003. The value was $11,512 million compared to the target amount of $10,235 million in December
   2000, $16,352 million compared to the target amount of $10,668 million in December 2001, and
   $17,846 million compared to the target amount of $10,961 million in December 2002.

  Value of Recorded Exports: The value increased from $8,128 million in 1999 to $17,618 million in
   2003. The value was $9,529 million compared to the target amount of $8,378 million in December
   2000, $15,616 million compared to the target amount of $9,075 million in December 2001, and
   $13,853 million compared to the target amount of $9,590 million in December 2002.




                                                    - 7 -

l Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption: The indicator is based on a Regional Survey carried-out by
 PlanConsultHolding in 2001-2003, and the percentage indicates a substantial increase from 2002 to
 2003. The results, however, reflect (i) the users' perception of corruption at all border crossings, not
  only the three pilot sites under the project; and (ii) payments received by all border staff, not only
  Customs. This qualification makes it a weak indicator from the project's development objectives
  perspective.




                                                 - 8 -

(b)   Pilot Sites Indicators

                                         December September     September     September September June
              Indicators                   1999      2000          2001          2002        2003     2004
                                           Act.   Targ. Act. Targ.      Act.  Targ. Act. Targ. Act. Act.
     1. GCD Performance
     Pilot Inland Terminal of Bacau
     Import Clearance Time (min)           165     140   59     100     77.9   70    82     60   72     53
     Physical Examination (%)               95     85     -     50      41.3   45    45     35   65     15
     Trucks Cleared in less than 15          5     10     -     20       -     35     9     45   10      3
     minutes (%)
     Irregularities/Number of               75     50     -     40       -     20    25     15    5      9
     Examinations (%)
     Pilot Border Crossing Giurgiu
     Truck Examination (%)                  50     40     -     35      11.6   30    n.a.   25   11      7
     Irregularities/Number of               20     20     -     16       -     13    n.a.   10   22      0
     Examinations (%)
     Average Border Exit Time (min)        120     90    87     60      72.5   30    63     20   41     87
     Average Border Entry Time (min)        90     60    75     40      77.8   30    83     20   74     85
     Pilot Border Crossing Constanta
     Container Examination (%)              75     65     -     50      35.2   40    70     35   61     12
     Irregularities/Number of               20     20     -     16       -     13    1.5    10    0      0
     Examinations (%)
     Average Border Entry Time (min)       540     400   271    300     183*  180    132   120   94    113



The development of the methodology and data collection for the performance indicators at pilot sites was a
huge regional and country endeavor, carried-out with the support of US Customs assistance. The indicator
results reflect the extent to which the proposed procedural reforms have been achieved; to that end,
comparisons must be made between the baseline figures collected before the project start, the targets set for
each year, and the actual performance. The September 2003 (final) targets are common for all TTFSE
program countries and were set in line with the practice in the European Union. Although not all the
ambitious performance targets have been met, significant results should be noted:

l Physical/truck examination percentages decreased substantially at all sites, in excess of the targets, and
   were the result of a dramatic change in Customs' mentality, from a virtual "total control" (almost 100%
   cursory examination of all consignments) to 7-15 percent. The change included the introduction of risk
   management and selectivity concepts and practice in Customs officers' work, and involved decisions
   and commitment at high level management. This indicator had a direct and major impact on such other
   indicators as the total time to clear Customs and/or enter and exit the country;

l Import clearance time: the reduction from 165 minutes to 53 minutes (68%) exceeded the target of 1
   hour and reflects an increase in the efficiency of staff processing the trucks, mainly through the
   introduction of selective examination, that has been achieved through the project by successfully
   introducing the selectivity module (MODSEL) of ASYCUDA clearance system and related training of
   the Customs staff;

l Average border entry time: a significant reduction from 9 hours (540 minutes) to less than 2 hours (113
   minutes), better than the target of 2 hours, was registered at the entry point of the port of Constanta,



                                                   - 9 -

     while less spectacular results, not meeting the target, were registered in Giurgiu at the border with
     Bulgaria. Reduction in border entry and exit time are indicators of better organization of traffic flows
     and of improved inter-agency awareness and cooperation. Success in this area was mixed, but on
     overall the results were positive.


                                        Regional Performance Indicators       3




Development of transport time and costs on the routes Istanbul -- Bucharest, Istanbul -- Tirana, Sarajevo--
Ljubljana

          Route                Indicators                                 Survey Period
                                                         CYCLE 1                 CYCLE 2              CYCLE 3
                                                         (2001/02)              (Spring 2003)      (Autumn 2003)
 I. Istanbul-Bucharest   Average Time (hours) No data available since              24 - 48             24 - 48
                         Average Cost (US$)      Turkey was not one of the       800 - 1,560         800 - 1,460
                                                 three main trading
                                                 partners
 II. Istanbul-Tirana     Average Time (hours)               120                      90                  85
                         Average Cost (US$)                1,900                1,500 - 1,900       1,500 - 1,800
 III. Sarajevo-Ljubljana Average Time (hours)               16                     17 - 24             18 - 24
                         Average Cost (US$)              30 - 1,000              550 - 1,025         520 - 1,060



It should be noted that the transport fees of forwarders included in these costs do not reflect just the
situation at border crossings included in the project, but rather the situation of the whole transport market
of a TTFSE country and the extent of its stability. In general there is an increase in the TTFSE region of
transportation costs, that can be attributed -- but not limited -- to: (i) increased range of services and share
of services in total costs; (ii) influence of the individual contacts of a forwarder and the chances (coming
from bilateral foreign trade) to get load for the return trip or not; (iii) development of road pricing on
special routes; (iv) modernization of the truck fleet; (v) a still unstable transport market; (vi) stronger
enforcement of transport legislation within the EU-15 countries by transporters from SEE; and (vii)
escalation especially in the price of fuel and lubricant but also for tires and spares.

B. Trade Facilitation

(i)     Strengthening of Public-Private Partnership

This component supported the activities of ROMPRO, the national trade and transport facilitation
committee, gathering main stakeholders from the private sector (Chamber of Commerce and Industry of
Romania and Bucharest - CCI, Association of Freight Forwarders), and the public sector (Romanian
Foreign Trade Center, Ministry of Economy and Commerce, Customs administration). The outputs
included:

    An extensive public outreach effort to raise awareness about trade and transport facilitation over the
     years 2001-2004, in the form of articles and promotional editorials published in magazines such as
     Mesagerul Economic, Cargo Bus Romania, Economic Panorama, and Romanian Insight, the CCIRB
     News Letter, a movie presenting ROMPRO activities, and booklets distributed at various events
     (Southeast Investment Forum, Romanian Economic Development Alliance Forum, Danube Region
     Business Conference, OECD Meeting, Geneva Meeting on Trade Facilitation Committee, Top National


                                                      - 10 -

    Awards for the Romanian companies with the best results in 2003).

   Active regional opportunities to cooperate. The PRO committees of Southeast Europe met three to
    four times a year regionally to discuss the Trade Facilitation component and other trade facilitation
    issues. They also met regularly on a bilateral basis to address urgent issues and discuss cooperation.
    For example, ROMPRO agreed to provide all pedagogical documents prepared in Romanian to their
    counterparts in Moldova. The project contributed actively to support this momentum.

   The willingness by the private sector to match grant funding. The PRO Committees provided a full
    matching of donor contribution that was directly targeted to them, ensuring their active commitment to
    the program.

   The elaboration and release of a joint information platform for users (www.ttfse.org). The website,
    designed and maintained regionally, provides information on requirements of many border agencies in
    Southeast Europe. Multiple regional coordination meetings were organized to define and build the
    platform.

   Three exchange programs to the US focused on border issues, supply chain management and security,
    and use of analytical tools (trade facilitation audits) to review their present status.

(ii)  Improvement of the Performance of Trade Facilitation Agents

The component combined active conventional training initiated through a regional train-the-trainer
approach with the elaboration of three pilot Distance Learning programs with certification.

Training and Seminars: A regional curriculum was developed for TTFSE countries covering topics such
                                                                                           5


as trade operations, transport, customs procedures, transit, business ethics, INCOTERMS, trade payment
methods. Two professionals , from Romania attended an intensive train-the-trainer session in the Koc
                              6


University (Istanbul). The Romanian Business School Foundation and SETAR organized 50 seminars,
gathering 950 participants in about 30 cities of Romania. The Chamber is reviewing the possibility of
continuing these programs after the end of the TTFSE project, building on the existing training modules.
About half of the trainees in 2003 were women. About 80 percent of participants were highly satisfied with
the training, and indicated that the courses were "well structured, useful, and delivered by very professional
trainers". The average cost of seminar delivery was very cost effective at $100 per attendee per week of
training.

Distance Learning/Blended Training Programs: The first two Distance Learning programs for road
transport operators (freight/passenger transport) were successfully piloted. The content developed is used
primarily for blended delivery of training (mix of face-to-face and self-study with exam). The training
manuals were rolled out in most of Southeast Europe. These programs are managed in Romania by the only
association accredited by the IRU Academy, FATII-ARTRI. The first course was conducted in 2003; 14
out of 20 candidates passed the examination and received an IRU certificate, in line with EU requirements
to access the road transport profession. The second course was conducted in January - April 2004; 17 out
of 20 candidates passed the examination and received the IRU certificate.

A similar program for freight forwarders was finalized for implementation in the Fall 2004. The program
was prepared by the Union des Societes d'Expediteurs de Roumanie (USER-Freight Forwarders'
Association) for freight forwarding in partnership with the International Freight Forwarders' Association



                                                     - 11 -

(FIATA), with issuance of the FIATA Diploma.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component I. Institutional Reform of Customs Administration:

(i)    Training: Southeast European Cooperative Initiative (SECI)/TTFSE Advisory Team (STAT), USA
financed the periodical training of the Romanian Customs staff and other border agencies' staff from the
pilot sites on the data collection process and inter-agency cooperation in order to calculate the performance
indicators of the project.

(ii)   Hazard materials and Endangered Species training courses were provided by the representatives from
Ministry of Waters and Environmental Protection to the Customs officers and some of the local Customs
brokers from the pilot sites, during May-July 2003, under the supervision of STAT and the NCA
environmental officer.

(iii) Seminars on applying the risk profiles in selective and/or targeted verifications at the pilot sites were
provided during the year 2003, by the Customs Headquarters Risk Analysis Office.

(iv)   a Risk Management Workshop was held by the STAT at the Customs Headquarters in Bucharest,
between June 7-11, 2004, where 18 risk management team members from 10 regional offices and the
headquarters attended.

Achievement for this component is satisfactory.

Component II. Trade Facilitation Development: (This component was not Bank-financed)

See Section 4.1 (B).

Achievement for this component is satisfactory.
Component III. Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS):

The project completed the installation of: (i) hardware for ICIS; (ii) software and assistance for information
system improvement; and (iii) an interdepartmental information system.

The new management control system financed by the project provides for improved Customs performance
through access to any domestic legislation by staff; the related software is an engine used to update the
country's legal database for the use of both Customs staff and the trading community. The bar code
equipment has been installed and it is now piloted at Giurgiu and other eight main border crossing points;
the system contributes to shorten the processing time of trucks, allows for advanced processing, and
facilitates quick identification of trucks. Two X-ray mobile units were installed at Giurgiu (Southern border
with Bulgaria) and Albita (Easter border with Moldova). The equipment is used selectively following the
operational guidelines; according to the first Customs reports, the rate of fraud detection has increased.

Training: Training was provided by the suppliers for the Customs staff operating with the equipment
purchased under all the contracts performed under the project.

Achievement for this component is satisfactory.



                                                     - 12 -

Component IV. Border Crossing Facilities:

(i)   Civil works for expansion of the Siret border crossing (on the highway from Turkey to Kiev)

The contracted works were completed by June 30, 2004. However, the contract for supplementary works
has been taken over by the Investment Department within the National Customs Authority (NCA)
management. If approved, they will be paid from the counterpart funding.

(ii)  Equipment for the modernization of Constanta Customs station, and for enhancement of
processing capacity at this and other major customs stations:

a)    Four contracts were signed during February 2001 for the procurement of 13 units of X-ray control
      machines, 20 units of fiber optiscopes, 25 units of contraband detectors, and 13 units of identifiers
      for drugs and explosives with different suppliers, for a total amount of US$1.8 million, and they were
      completed by November 2001.

b)    One contract was signed in June 2002 for the procurement of two units of mobile X-ray systems(one
      for Giurgiu customs station on the southern border and the other for Albita customs station on the
      eastern border), and it was completed in June 2003. Also in June 2003, an addendum for the contract
      extension was signed, in order to obtain all the necessary authorizations foreseen by the Romanian
      law concerning the X-ray equipment. In October 2003, an addendum was signed for the procurement
      of the third mobile X-ray system for Constanta, which was completed in April 2004.

c)    The third mobile X-ray system for Constanta replaced the fixed X-ray system that was initially
      foreseen. The Customs administration decided to replace it due to technical and costs constraints.

During the first six months of 2004, the results on detection of smuggling and narcotics by using the X-ray
equipment procured under the project were the following: Narcotics and weapons: 18.5 kg heroine and
46,386 pills of ecstasy; 6.7 kg cannabis; 4.08 kg opium; 7.9 kg cocaine; 1.64 kg mercury; 10 revolvers and
257 cartridges; 2 hunting rifles. Smuggling of goods, translated in additional revenues collected through
seizure: the total amount of seizures was about US$4.3 million, out of which US$1.2 million (27%) was
collected by using the X-ray equipment through seizures of cigarettes, electronics, jewelry, cars, textiles,
leather, cosmetics, and food products.

The procurement of the video surveillance system was cancelled in July 2003, since there was no need for
the Customs administration to install and operate the video surveillance system in the Constanta Port, its
limited surveillance responsibilities being similar to those specific to a free port.

Achievement for this component is satisfactory.

Component V. PMU: The project financed the operating costs and consultants for PMU and the
consulting services for auditors, RSC Secretariat, and procurement advisors.

Achievement for this component is satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The project has an estimated net present value of US$9.9 million, based on the methodology used during
the appraisal. While traffic was slightly lower than expected at pilot sites, processing time reduction took


                                                     - 13 -

place faster than expected, and the overall project costs were significantly lower than projected. This
resulted in a higher rate of return (27 percent) than originally anticipated (19 percent). It is worth noting
that in line with the overall project objective of facilitating trade, Romania experienced a solid trade
expansion during the project life, which is not considered directly as part of the analysis. It is likely that the
estimated trade benefit equivalent to 20 percent of transport benefits used in the evaluation is an
understatement of the actual impact of improved border crossing. The use of X-Ray equipment purchased
under the project also yielded additional revenues collected through seizure (US$8.9 million), which are not
included in the estimated benefits.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The fiscal impact of the project was positive. Trade expansion and improved performance of Customs have
generated additional Customs duties and excise taxes. The Government's share of the total project cost was
less than anticipated due to savings. The Government also benefited from the parallel (grant) financing
provided by the US Government.

Since the Customs administration is not a revenue earning entity, FRR was not calculated. Part of the
increase in revenue collection can be associated to the enhanced processing by Customs, particularly at
pilot sites, but not only (e.g. the project supported extension of Customs information system, that had an
impact). The calculation of direct fiscal impact was however not possible since many factors played a role
(trade increase, reduction in tariffs, free trade agreements) in the fiscal collection by Customs. The overall
efficiency indicators (See Development Indicators) also underline significant progress in the cost
effectiveness of Customs.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Substantial. The project focused on procedural changes at the border, and the trade facilitation role of
Customs. Although the project was not initially aiming at having a substantial institutional development
impact, the outcome exceeded the expectations. It created an awareness on the importance of inter-agency
cooperation within the country, and on the cross-border cooperation among neighboring countries. The
project was also instrumental in improving dialogue among Customs administrations within the region. For
example, since the first RSC of the TTFSE program held in February 2000 in Skopje (FYR of Macedonia),
seven other RSC meetings have taken place on a regular basis before the project closure, with an average
of two per year. They are likely to continue after the completion of TTFSE projects.

The project has also contributed to capacity building in the Customs administration. Romania is the first
country in the region to use modern technology in Customs inspection. Customs staff have been trained on
using modern equipment, with new procedures and new systems which were tested during the life of the
project. More and more Customs staff are being trained by those who received original training under the
project.

Monitoring the performance of Customs administration using key performance indicators has also led to
substantial institutional development impact. Even though these indicators were initially tested on three
pilot sites, they are now replicated in nine more Customs stations, and would be extended very soon to all
the Customs stations in Romania. The ICIS introduced by the project will also increase Customs
Department's capacity to make effective use of its financial resources.

Finally, the three-year Users Survey comparative results, published on the TTFSE regional website,
provided a diagnostic of the overall Customs and border environment from the users' perspective in a
                                                                             7




                                                       - 14 -

transparent manner, thus contributing to a substantial improvement of the dialogue between Customs and
its clients. The survey results show an improvement on all five Customs institutional aspects, from `major
problem' to `moderate problem'.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Positive Factors

 (i)    The vision of becoming a member of the EU on the part of all the TTFSE countries was a major
 incentive, significantly motivating the ownership of, and commitment to, the project.

 (ii)   The preparation of the TTFSE Program was preceded by the Southeast Europe Cooperation
 Initiative (SECI) sponsored by the USA and the Stability Pact. The TTFSE was designed to mesh with
 co-financing from the USA under SECI and seen as the first regional program under the Stability Pact.
 This gave the projects under the program high credibility and visibility.

 (iii)  Excellent donor coordination among the Bank, EU, and the US Government and their speaking as
 one voice made a positive impact on the project.          Collaborative mechanisms were created in both
 Washington, D.C and the field, and recurrent missions stopped in Brussels for consultation.

 (iv)   The regional approach of the TTFSE Program, including the creation of a Regional Steering
 Committee where the performance of individual projects could be compared with the performance of
 neighboring countries and the sharing of experience and lessons learned created peer pressure among the
 participating countries, which in turn generated a competitive spirit and motivated them to perform better.

 (v)    Strengthening the role of the private sector, especially with the emergency of Pro-Committees
 under SECI, and the increased professionalization of operators through training, certification, and the
 web-site under the project provided the beginning of a private sector watch-dog function monitoring
 government performance and breaking down the resistance to data sharing in the sector.

Negative Factors

 (i)    The dramatic increase in oil prices, not foreseen during project preparation, affected the
 achievement of regional performance indicators related to reduction of transport costs. Similarly, the drop
 of the US dollar vis-a-vis the Euro had not been foreseen when establishing the targets. These situations
 diminished the usefulness of the regional indicators.

 (ii)   Vested interests within the trade sector and related economic interests were well-entrenched, not
 readily transparent, and still serve to reinforce corruption as an institutionalized way of doing business.
 Addressing corruption in such a setting cannot bring results overnight. This was recognized in the project
 design, and the reform process was projected within an eight to ten year time-frame.

 (iii)  The Court of Accounts, the body under Parliament for controlling/monitoring public expenditure,
 was a burden on the PMU and the Customs Directorate. Because of its heavy bureaucracy, it was
 difficult to get timely clearances from this body. In addition, the PMU had to give a lot of explanations to
 the Court of Accounts regarding the complaints of different bidders who did not win their bids in the
 tendering process conducted by the PMU. This was very time consuming for the PMU, and as a result,



                                                     - 15 -

 generated delays in implementation. The PMU had to allocate precious time translating into Romanian all
 the documents or explaining to the controllers the procedures to be followed, the meaning of clauses in the
 contracts, and other issues.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Positive Factors

(i)   Building cooperation among representatives of border crossing agencies (a) at border crossing
points, (b) between these staff and their respective headquarters, and (c) among border crossing agencies
and their colleagues in other countries was identified as a major obstacle in the institutional analysis
conducted during program/project preparation. Local Project Teams were created at the border crossing
points to promote collaboration; inter-agency communication and cooperation was facilitated through
signing of a Protocol/Agreement promoted by the Borrower through the National Coordinator. Due to these
efforts, towards the end of project life the dialogue and cooperation among border crossing agencies had
improved, demonstrated by increasing collaborative interaction taking place between missions.

(ii) Cross-border cooperation of Customs. The Ministry of Finance through GCD initiated, updated and
implemented agreements with neighboring Bulgaria on joint border control teams to facilitate trade and
transport while reducing smuggling and increasing border security.

Negative Factors

(i)    Off-phasing and inconsistencies in legislation and regulations constrained the reform progress.
The harmonization of Romanian Customs with EU blueprints was largely carried out by 1997. The
legislation and regulations for other ministries, however, including the Ministry of Interior, had to be
harmonized with the EU codes during the project period. More precisely border legislation (Ordinances 104
and 105 on the organization of the Border Police and the management of borders, respectively), passed
during project implementation, was inconsistent with the Customs legislation or blocked implementation of
streamlined procedures by Customs. Progress in this area of trade facilitation was stalled with the
introduction of new legislation,      resulting in the conspicuous participation of the police in Customs
inspections.   Customs officers became reluctant to apply selective or targeted controls for fear of
subsequent re-inspection by the police. This had a negative impact on border delays and performance
indicators. Other laws introduced to meet the EU requirements on Intellectual Property Rights had a
temporary negative effect on Customs clearance efficiency. In time, however, the competencies and roles
were clarified, and during the last year of the project life the performance indicators moved back toward
their targets.

(ii)    The Ministry of Public Finance (MPF) was not in a position to impose on other agencies
reform measures which would have improved project efficiency. A notable example is the Ministry of
Transport, Construction, and Tourism (MTCT) (through the National Administration of Roads), who
maintained a 100% truck weighing system and cumbersome processing at some border crossings including
one of the project pilots. All commercial vehicles entering (and also, increasingly, exiting) traffic were
weighed at the border. This resulted in delays, and opportunities for rent-seeking activities.

(iii)   Politicization and patronage led to a relatively high turnover of key staff in GCD. During
project preparation and implementation (1999-2004), the Customs administration of Romania had three
different Director Generals. That involved changes of lower level staff, including Chiefs of borders or local
teams involved in project implementation. Each such change brought discontinuity to the reform process


                                                      - 16 -

and the need to renew the efforts of PMU and the Bank team towards project support and ownership.

(iv)    Counterpart funding. There was some occasional delay on the part of the Government in providing
counterpart funding. This funding was frozen for about six months because of the ceiling on external debt
imposed by the MPF on the amounts to be withdrawn from the loan account in 2002 (US$2.8 million
approved versus about US$8 million requested by the PMU based on disbursement estimates) and the
corresponding reduction of counterpart funding. This was, however, the result of a restriction imposed by
the IMF on the country's external debt ceiling and it affected all IFI financed projects at that time.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Positive Factors

(i)   The activation of the Asycuda selectivity module enabled substantial progress in reducing
resistance to implementing selectivity. Initially there was a very much ingrained attitude that examination
of all consignments was necessary as a deterrent to smuggling and irregularities. The acceptance of
selectivity by Customs officers was also limited by their fear that a subsequent re-examination might reveal
an irregularity, for which the Customs officers would be accused of connivance and collusion, and
penalized. During implementation GCD did introduce a selectivity policy and commit to a computerized
approach based on Asycuda, although the results were deferred well into mid-life of the project, as reflected
in the initial poor results of the performance indicators. In 2004, however, the physical examination at pilot
sites dropped dramatically, even below targets, as shown in the performance indicators table.

(ii)     Performance by the Project Implementation Team (PIT) was facilitated by the strong support
provided by the functional departments of Customs. This support indicated the ownership of the project by
the staff within customs responsible for operations as well as by the senior management of Customs.

Negative Factors

(i)   Lack of experience of the Customs administration with the World Bank procurement guidelines,
and the time necessary to implement international competitive bidding processes delayed implementation.
While the PMU staff was able to produce timely and good quality bidding documents, the internal
procedures on use of public funds required clearance and signing by various layers of GCD management.
These managers were obviously unfamiliar with the Bank's procurement guidelines and certain other
implementation requirements under World Bank financed projects. This factor may not necessarily be
regarded as negative but as an internally required safeguard that needed to be accepted but was
unaccounted for in the implementation plan.


5.4 Costs and financing:

The total final cost of the project was US$15.2 million, compared with the PAD estimate of US$27.2
million. The difference is mainly the result of savings resulting from: (i) overestimation of the cost of civil
works; (ii) replacement of fixed X-ray equipment system costing about $3.0 million, by a mobile X-ray
system; and (iii) one contract that did not materialize . In addition, the US contribution was reduced from
                                                        8


US$1.4 million to US$1.2 million. The original loan amount was US$17.1 million. After canceling US$4.5
million, the amended loan amount was US$12.6 million. The final loan amount disbursed was US$11.4
million.




                                                     - 17 -

                            Project Cost and Financing, Including Taxes (US$)

                          Government                  USA                  IBRD                  Total
Estimated cost                   8.7                   1.4                  17.1                  27.2
(PAD)
Final Cost (ICR)           2.6 (17.1%)             1.2 (7.8%)            11.4 (75%)               15.2



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Highly likely. The sustainability of the project is rated as highly likely

The sustainability of the project is considered highly likely for several overarching reasons: (i) considering
that Romania is keen to become a member of the EU by 2007, it is highly likely that the Government will
continue to make special efforts to sustain the achievements of the project for a smooth integration with the
EU; (ii) due to the high visibility of the regional program and project, the wide publicity given on the results
achieved, and the availability on the web of information on Customs and border performance, the public is
well aware of the recent developments and as a result, it will be difficult for the Government to backtrack;
(iii) Customs has already taken steps to move to the replication of performance monitoring at other sites;
this has been a decision outside the project scope; and (iv) the Government has taken actions to affirm
participation in the follow-up TTFSE II Program. Additional discussion follows.

The project supported values that are critical to fulfilling Romania's long-term objective of achieving
sustainable growth. Once these reforms are in place, the sustainability of the effort would be assured by
transparency in Customs operations, regular cooperation among border crossing agencies including those
of other countries, and the gains captured by all parties involved in legitimate trade. Continuous upgrading
of the Customs services, procedures, management, and equipment based on a re-engineered budget would
enable the GCD to cope with trade and traffic growth, technological advance, and continued compatibility
with the EU. The inter-agency and cross-border cooperation approach and culture promoted through the
project are further supported by the EU-funded program on Integrated Border management (IBM).

The monitoring approach using key indicators developed under the TTFSE Project is likely to be continued
beyond the project life, as the management of Customs is determined to follow-up on performance
monitoring and to gradually expand it to all border and Customs inland locations in Romania. For the
continued collection of data, the Government has proposed that the Customs service itself would take on
this function according to an Action Plan that would gradually be applied to all borders and inland
terminals within one year. The Action Plan was initiated outside the scope or requirements of the project.
Use of X-ray equipment, which is beneficial for the detection of smuggling, will also continue.

After the project completion, but in line with the principles designed by the TTFSE, Romania developed an
agreement with Bulgaria to create and carry-out joint border control procedures between Giurgiu
(Romania) and Rousse (Bulgaria) which were both pilot locations during the project life. Significantly,
these actions arise not from initiatives of the World Bank but from the staff of Customs and other border
control agencies.

The TTFSE regional website is likely to continue, and several of the PRO-committees underlined their



                                                      - 18 -

intention to commercialize the site to facilitate its sustainability. The sustainability of the website, however,
will require further commitment by the respective contributing agencies and ministries as well as further
funding. During the brainstorming session on a potential TTFSE II program, the Romanian website
administrators underlined that a lot of progress had been made over the past three years in inter-ministerial
coordination, which was considered unlikely at project start, and that further development of the site under
a second TTFSE program would enable it to become sustainable. A Romanian version of the site has also
been partially developed to widen the user base.

Finally, Romania is looking ahead to future progress in trade facilitation through participation in the
TTFSE II Program, seen as a follow-up regional operation building on the experience, lessons learned, and
mechanisms developed under TTFSE. Various stakeholders from the Government and the private sector
participated in a brainstorming session in March 2004 to identify the key components that might be
included under this follow-on program. They expressed their interest in continuing their membership in the
program based on a scaled-up, broader platform focused on the European Corridors and expanded to other
modes of transport. The target date for the new project is FY 2007.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

See Section 6.1

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory, especially in view of the setting of the project within a regional program. The identification
process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in the region's trade and transport
sectors and then sought to match these with the specific needs and interest of the Government of Romania
and the evolving private sector. The project's consistency with the Government's development priorities
and the Bank's country assistance strategy was assured, but considerable consultation was also undertaken
with trade groups and users of border crossing control services. The project design and components reflect
the gaps and needs in Customs and the position of Romania as the future Eastern border of the EU; to that
end, the loan proceeds were focused on border control and detection equipment as required to address EU
security concerns. These were complemented with the common regional components.

In addition, the Bank also covered in-depth sociological aspects and local issues while designing the
project. This included the conduct of separate focus groups with (i) the staff of Customs and (ii) users to
better understand needs and priorities. The team considered options for promoting the development of a
new work culture within Customs, including the promotion of anti-corruption. The team benefitted from a
good skill mix (including trade facilitation, Customs, transport, safeguard, institutional, and change
management specialists). This is reflected in the project design and enabled providing for flexibility and
responsiveness to local needs. The continuous presence of Customs experts (from both the Bank and the
US partners) during project preparation created a climate of mutual confidence and transparency which are
normally not easy to achieve in the realm of Customs, and in particular in SEE countries. The extensive
stakeholder consultations and participatory approach used by the team were highly productive, initiating a
process of ownership that proved invaluable at the implementation stage, and introducing elements for
gradual incorporation into the work culture of Customs.

During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and all such


                                                       - 19 -

major relevant aspects as technical, financial, economic, and institutional requirements, including
procurement and financial management. In addition, during appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks
and benefits. Throughout this stage in the project cycle the Bank also held extensive consultation with both
the EU and US Customs, enabling not only collaboration but parallel financing.


7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. The satisfactory performance of the Bank during the implementation of the project was
confirmed in the Final Evaluation Report provided by the Ministry of Public Finance. Although this
performance was enabled by the provision of sufficient budget and balanced allocation of staff resources,
the client specifically commented on the flexibility and responsiveness of the extensive assistance provided
by the supervision team.      This began with the launch workshop held with representatives of other
collaborating projects under the TTFSE Program and included follow-up workshops and learning
opportunities on such topics as procurement and disbursement. It included extensive dialogue targeting
"problem identification" and "problem solving" with respective Customs staff. The supervision team played
an active role in supporting the organization of the RSC meetings in each country including Romania. The
regional dimension of the program involved such additional tasks as the maintenance and updating of the
indicators database, the TTFSE website, and the internally produced Annual Progress Reports.

The monitoring provided over the three and a half years of project implementation included seven
supervision missions, with an average of about two missions per year. The missions produced timely
prepared and transmitted Aide-memoires of high quality. These documents clearly flagged any outstanding
issues and correspondingly defined the concrete steps and agreed actions for solving such issues. The
timeliness of the communication enable the Government, the implementing agency, and the co-financiers to
take prompt corrective action. The mission teams included specialists in transport, trade facilitation,
Customs, environment, financial management, and procurement.            External consultants were used for
specific aspects of project components.

The supervision process was regularly supported by the US Customs Assistance Team (STAT) both at the
country and regional levels based on procedural mechanisms outlined and defined by the Bank team. The
US experts brought their knowledge and expertise in the Customs institutional reforms assessment, data
collection, monitoring of performance indicators, and selectivity. In addition to joining the supervision
missions, the STAT remained resident in Romania. They played a significant role in the operation of Local
Project Teams created at border crossing points for the coordination of the various border crossing agencies
and for the collection of performance data. Between supervision missions the Bank team relied on regular
communication with the STAT and the regional STAT manager.

In addition to the monitoring of the performance indicators, the team implemented a validation system of
user perception and the impact of the reform process underway on trade and transport cost reduction.
Collected on the basis of annual surveys, this information was matched with the performance indicators and
used by the team to discuss project results with the clients individually and at the periodic meetings of the
Regional Steering Committee. These results were also made available to the public on the regional
program website. The users survey was funded through an Austrian Trust Fund managed by the Bank
team.

The Project Status Reports (PSRs) drew well upon the Aide-Memories and user surveys and realistically
rated the performance of the project both in terms of the achievement of development objectives and project
implementation. It was a means to flag operational issues to the management and helped address them



                                                    - 20 -

quickly.

The supervision team included an operations officer from the Bank's Country Office in Bucharest. The
arrangement enabled the task manager to provide quick response and follow-up to not only the issues
flagged in the aide-memoires, but also identified in between supervision missions. The system of annual
Joint Portfolio Review, which functions very effectively in Romania, provided opportunities to gather the
various parties and stakeholders involved in the project; the Bucharest Office was not only once the
facilitator and mediator of discussions among border agencies - in particular Customs and Border Police.
The team also benefitted from a close cooperation with the Country Manager who was instrumental in
quickly and efficiently addressing issues directly with the highest level of Government on
multi-agency/multi-sectoral aspects which were difficult to handle by the implementing agency alone.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Romanian
government was among the first clients in Southeast Europe to adhere to the regional program, and
Customs had a clear vision on how the project (and the program) could contribute to achieving its strategy.
The Borrower was clearly committed to the objectives of the project and covered the adequacy of design
and all major aspects: technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and sociological factors,
including stakeholder commitment. The government officials and staff of the PMU worked closely with the
Bank's project team on a continual basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. The Government
understood that the success of the project would depend on commitment at a high level, as a result of the
multi-sectoral dimension of border procedural reforms. To that end, early during project implementation it
appointed a National Coordinator whose role it was to (i) coordinate the project related activities of the
various border agencies, and (ii) represent the country in the Regional Steering Committee of the TTFSE
program. The Government consistently maintained its commitment throughout implementation. The GCD
was responsible for the overall implementation, and the Director General of Customs was appointed as the
National Coordinator of the project and country's representative in the Regional Steering Committee (RSC
- the TTFSE regional "umbrella"). The Government through GCD, and with the support and cooperation
from SECI Anti-Crime Center for SEE located in Bucharest, organized the first RSC meeting at an early
stage of implementation that set the stage for regional cooperation within the program. The GCD was
responsive to take corrective implementation measures and was effective in dealing with outstanding
operational issues. Appropriate levels of review and approval were usually in place: financial
accountability and follow-up was observed; expenditures were duly authorized before they were incurred;
and documentation was maintained properly for periodic review. Since the GCD was organized as a
department/directorate of the Ministry if Finance, the flow of information, necessary clearances, approvals
and funding was generally smooth, although on one occasion the provision of counterpart funding was
delayed (paragraph 5.2).




                                                    - 21 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. The performance of the PMU, which implemented the project under the overall coordination
of GCD management, was satisfactory. The PMU was staffed with outstanding professionals with
experience in procurement and financial management. The project manager was familiar with Customs
administration and had direct access to GCD's management. The PMU provided proactive follow-up to
mitigate implementation bottlenecks. It was very well organized and effective in dealing with procurement,
disbursement, progress reports, and in maintaining proper records of the project. The PMU maintained a
good financial management system with detailed internal controls, and satisfactory accounting and
reporting systems, and auditing arrangements. It maintained a very good monitoring and reporting system,
with a tremendous amount of information on a monthly and quarterly basis, on performance indicators, the
Users Surveys, and the TTFSE annual reports. Its performance in this area in particular was highly
satisfactory. The PMU was also receptive to the Bank advice and highly collaborative with respect to
meeting demanding benchmarks and deadlines. The delays signaled in procurement (paragraph 5.1) were
not related to the expertise and efficiency of the PMU staff, but rather to the changes in Customs
management staff as a result of decisions outside the control of the implementing agency (i.e. elections).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Project and Program-Related Lessons

   Interagency Cooperation at Border Cross Points. Trade facilitation is always a multi-sectoral and
    multi-agency activity. For a project of this type where seven to eight agencies are involved, their active
    participation and cooperation are essential for successful implementation and achievement of project
    objectives and also for ensuring sustainability. In addition, the delegation of authority to agents at
    border crossings is also essential for enabling sustainable change and promoting pragmatic approaches
    to the resolution of problems. A cooperative culture should be encouraged and promoted from the top
    down by management of regulatory agencies.

   Replication of Procedures at Pilot Sites. The lessons learned and the success experienced at the more
    progressive border crossing points provide a model for replication in Romania as well as in other
    TTFSE countries. The economic returns from such replication could be considerable, multiplying the
    economic returns to date by several times. Romania should pursue this direction, making changes in
    procedures at border crossing points that were not included as pilot sites under the project.

   Frequent rotation of staff in the Customs Directorate should be avoided to ensure smooth project
    implementation and operatoinal performance in the future. As mentioned in Section 5.2 (iii), during
    implementation there were relatively frequent changes in the Customs administration management and
    key staff. That contributed to delays in the implementation, as new staff had to familiarize with the
    project and the lower level staff had to be trained on procedures.

   Customs control will become more effective and efficient under the use of "selective procedure." This
    fact has been demonstrated with the achievement of better results in detecting irregularities based on
    selective procedure, and it is reflected in the pilot indicators results.




                                                      - 22 -

   Support for the TTFSE Website. Further cooperation and support from government agencies are
    essential to make the regional website sustainable and successful.

   Procedures at Border Points. It is important to improve procedures at all border points as early as
    possible, because if the focus is only on a few pilots, there is a risk that the traders will go to other
    non-pilot points in order to circumvent strict enforcement as the result of these improved procedures.

   Multifunctional Border Inspection Facilities. While constructing border inspection facilities, it will
    be better to design them as multifunctional, so that they could be used for other purposes/activities
    after Romania's accession to EU in 2007, when the borders would no more be relevant.

Bank-Related Lessons

   The Bank's Focus in the Future Programs. The Bank should focus not only on trade facilitation, but
    also on legitimate security requirements and such anti-terrorism such as container security code for the
    scanning of cargoe. Further, the Bank should recognize that, when the project involves several
    innovative reforms, it is normal to have higher risks and higher rewards.

   Result-oriented Approach. The main characteristic of the project was that it was result oriented with
    measurable indicators. This unique quality was a major factor which contributed to the success of the
    project.

   Policy Dialogue. It is important to start the policy dialogue at the very beginning of the project and to
    involve all important stakeholders. For example, even though Customs administration was the only
    beneficiary of the loan, the success of the project also depended on the dialogue and cooperation among
    several border agencies.

   Regional Approach. With a regional approach, it is possible for a project to achieve better results than
    a stand-alone project. This approach would create peer pressure among the participating countries,
    which in turn would generate competitive spirit and motivation amongst them to perform better.

Miscellaneous

l The contribution of the US as a parallel financier contributed to the success of the project. The
    USAID Grant was instrumental in improving public-private partnership, especially in light of the
    Government's reluctancy to borrow for technical assistance for the private sector. Likewise, US
    Customs financed a permanent presence of Customs advisors in Romania (and the whole TTFSE
    region) to help with data collection, monitoring indicators, and improving the risk-management system
    in Customs administration.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's full report is provided under Annex 8.




                                                     - 23 -

Achievements

The overall TTFSE project implementation performance, and the development objectives ratings have been
satisfactory. At the national level, all but one development objective achievement indicators met or
exceeded the targets, showing an overall improvement in Customs Administration productivity. Thus,
between 2001 and 2003, the Customs revenues have registered over 100% increase, from US$1.7 billion to
US$3.6 billion, as well as the revenues collected by Customs officer, which increased by 142%, from
US$345.651 to US$838.587. Also, the trade volume has doubled, from US$21 billion to US$42 billion, as
well as the trade volume/Customs staff, which increased by 133%, from US$4.2 million to US$9.7 million.

At the monitored pilot sites level, although not all the performance indicators have met the targets, between
2001 and June 30, 2004 significant reduction of the clearance/waiting times has been registered, especially
at Bacau (76%) and Constanta (46%) pilot sites. Also, the Customs Administration have successfully
introduced the selectivity module of Asycuda in customs control, that resulted not only in the reduction of
the clearance times, but also in substantial reduction of the trucks/containers physical examination at all
monitored pilot sites (76% at Bacau, 74% at Constanta, 67% at Giurgiu).

During the first year (2003) and the first six months of the second year (2004) of operation of the X-ray
equipment purchased with the loan proceeds, detection of smuggling and narcotics has increased. About
28% of the seizures (or US$7.7 million) in 2003, and about 27% (or US$1.2 million) in the first half of
2004, were made using the newly purchased X-ray equipment.

Lessons Learned

   Replication of the pilot approach at all the border crossings and inland terminals will lead to
    achieving a full impact of the procedural reforms, while continuing to measure the results through the
    performance indicators built under TTFSE Project. The National Customs Authority has already
    prepared a Monitoring Replication Plan, agreed with the Bank, and its implementation has already
    started since June 2004 in the first 18 new sites, with the US Advisory Team support.

   Extension of introducing the selected verifications in Customs control will be one of the major
    factors in improving clearance delays and increasing the effectiveness of the Customs control. The
    better results achieved at the pilot sites by using the selective procedure has proved its efficiency.

   Training of the Customs staff on using the streamlined procedures, aligned to international best
    practice (selectivity, advance clearance, using the modern facilities), is of great importance in
    increasing their awareness on changing the working mentality and improving their efficiency.

   Inter-agency cooperation at the border crossing points is essential for successful implementation of
    the streamlined procedures in order to ensure trade facilitation, while ensuring an efficient control at the
    border.

   Government support to impose on other public agencies adequate reforms is also essential for
    achieving the project objectives, as well as for ensuring their sustainability.

(b) Cofinanciers:




                                                      - 24 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Comments form the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Romania and Bucharest have been
incorporated in the text of the present report.

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team Consisted of the Following Members

1. Anca Dumitrescu          Task Team Leader
2. Philip W. Moeller        Consultant
3. Sati Achath              Consultant
4. Madhu Nair               Consultant
5. Marie Laygo              Program Assistant

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the Project in Chronological Order

Anca Dumitrescu, Transport Specialist, Europe and Central Asia Region

C. Persons Interviewed for the Preparation of the ICR

1. Eva Molnar               Transport Sector Manager (1999-2003)
2. Paulus Guitink           TTFSE Program Team Leader (2004)
3. Michel Audige            TTFSE Program Team Leader (2002-2003)
4. Graham Smith             TTFSE Program Team Leader (1999-2002)
5. Gerald Ollivier          Transport Specialist, TTFSE Program Trade Facilitation Coordinator
6. Michel Zarnowieck        Senior Trade Facilitation Specialist
7. Silvia Savu              Manager of the PMU
8. Vladimir Skendrovic      Consultant

D. Footnotes

1/ It included Bulgaria and Romania, the first two projects appraised among the initial six TTFSE regional
   countries.
2/ The survey was conducted on a national level through questionnaires. Since the survey started only in
   2001, previous years are deemed to have an index of 100. Full name of the Survey is: "PlanConsult -
   Final Report of the Survey 2001-2003, May 2004.
3/ Source: PlanConsult and Chamber of Commerce and Survey results, May 2004.
4/ Inter alia (i) the single payment window in Giurgiu, Romania; (ii) transit facilitation of the trucks
   between Romania and Bulgaria by using the weighing certificates; and (iii) demonstration of using the
   TTFSE regional website for the representatives of the business community from both countries.
5/ See all training documents prepared under this project at :
   http://wbln0018.worldbank.org/ECA/Transport.nsf/ExtECADocByUnid/3CF8EA006AD2C14285256C
   5500476541?Opendocument&Start=1&Count=10
6/ One from ROMTRANS, the largest transport company, and one from SETAR (Institute for Transport
   and Forwarding Studies).
7/ The survey covered five main issues, in dynamic: (i) Customs legislation; (ii) Communication; (iii)
   Customs procedures; (iv) Personnel; and (v) Logistics.



                                                    - 25 -

8/ The contract for a study on control system for traffic movement, estimated to US$200,000 was not
   committed before the Closing Date. This was due to the delays in a related EU assistance that failed to
   provide the needed information for the study.




                                                 - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                          1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR           Actual/Latest Estimate
Revenue collected/customs staff (US$000)      410                              839
Total GCD cost/revenue collected (%)          <1.5                             1.1
Salaries/revenue collected (%)                <0.7                             0.5
Trade volume/number of staff (US$000/staff) 4,000                              9,720
Annual number of declarations/customs staff 1,000                              439
Transport cost for the main export commodity 94                                80
traded with the three main trading partners
(US$-base 100 in 2001) - regional
Value of recorded imports (US$ million) as of not set                          24,003
end-year
Value of recorded exports (US$ million) as of not set                          17,618
end-year


Output Indicators:
                                                                          1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR           Actual/Latest Estimate
(Bacau) - Import Clearance Time (min)         60                               53
(Bacau) - Physical Examination (%)            35                               15
(Bacau) - Trucks cleared in less than 15      45                               3
minutes (%)
(Bacau) - Irregularities/number of            15                               9
examinations (%)
(Giurgiu) - Truck examination (%)             25                               7
(Giurgiu) - Irregularities/number of          10                               0
examinations (%)
(Giurgiu) - Average border exit time (min)    20                               87
(Giurgiu) - Average border entry time (min)   20                               85
(Constanta) - Container examination (%)       35                               31
(Constanta) - Irregularities/number of        10                               0
examination (%)
(Constanta) - Average border entry time (min) 120                              113

1End of project




                                                            - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Component I.                                                 0.80            0.80             100
Customs Administration Institutional Reform
Component II.                                                0.40            0.40             100
Trade Facilitation Development
Component III.                                               3.00            2.10              70
Improvement of Integrated Customs Information System
Component IV.                                               18.80          11.60               62
Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities
Component V.                                                 0.40            0.30              75
Program and Project Implementation

Total Baseline Cost                                         23.40          15.20
 Physical Contingencies                                      2.30
 Price Contingencies                                         1.60
                         Total Project Costs                27.30          15.20
                   Total Financing Required                 27.30          15.20


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           4.80             0.00         0.00         0.00          4.80
                                  (1.40)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.40)
2. Goods                          20.10             0.00         0.00         0.00         20.10
                                  (15.10)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (15.10)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         0.80         1.30          2.10
Consultant Services &             (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.50)         (0.00)       (0.50)
Engineering , and Training
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.20         0.20          0.40
Operating Costs                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.20)         (0.00)       (0.20)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          24.90             0.00         1.00         1.50         27.40
                                  (16.50)          (0.00)      (0.70)         (0.00)      (17.20)




                                                - 28 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 3.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              3.00
                                           (1.80)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.80)
   2. Goods                                 10.10              0.00              0.60             0.00             10.70
                                           (8.90)             (0.00)            (0.50)            (0.00)           (9.40)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.10             1.20              1.30
   Consultant Services &                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (0.10)
   Engineering , and Training
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.20             0.00              0.20
   Operating Costs                         (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (0.10)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                13.10              0.00              0.90             1.20             15.20
                                           (10.70)            (0.00)            (0.70)            (0.00)           (11.40)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Component I. Customs                                      0.80                                0.80                         100.0
Administration
Institutional Reform
Component II. Trade                                       0.40                                0.40                         100.0
Facilitation Development
Component III.                  2.70         0.70                     1.70         0.40                  63.0      57.1
Improvement of Integrated
Customs Information
System
Component IV.                  14.10         8.00                     9.50         2.10                  67.4      26.3
Improvement of Border
Crossing Facilities
Component V. Program            0.40         0.20                     0.20         0.10                  50.0      50.0
and Project
Implementation




                                                           - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Cost Benefit Analysis

The project has an estimated net present value of US$9.9 million, based on the methodology used during
the appraisal. While traffic was slightly lower than expected at pilot sites, processing time reduction took
place faster than expected, and the overall project costs were significantly lower than projected. This
resulted in a higher rate of return (27 percent) than originally anticipated (19 percent). It is worth noting
that in line with the overall project objective of facilitating trade, Romania experienced a solid trade
expansion during the project life, which is not considered directly as part of the analysis. It is likely that the
estimated trade benefit equivalent to 20 percent of transport benefits used in the evaluation is an
understatement of the actual impact of improved border crossing. The use of X-Ray equipment purchased
under the project also yielded additional revenues collected through seizure (US$8.9 million), which are not
included in the estimated benefits.

Summary of Benefits

The project expected two types of benefits: (i) lower transport costs as a result of the diminution of waiting
times at border crossings and inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from
the project.

   Trade and Transport Cost Reductions. The savings on transport costs at the Romanian border
    crossings and the inland terminal under the project are estimated at US$5.6 million by 2005 versus
    US$5.3 million at appraisal. Delays at border crossings and inland terminals have been substantially
    reduced with an estimated 45 percent processing time reduction on average for the three pilot sites.
    These benefits were quite close to the projections made in the project appraisal document, but traffic
    turned out to be lower at the beginning of the project while time reduction was greater than anticipated
    at most pilot sites.

   X-ray Benefits. The use of X-ray equipment enabled faster processing of cargo and additional revenue
    collection through significant seizures of smuggled goods, narcotic and weapons. As per the original
    methodology, only the time savings linked to the X-ray inspection versus the physical inspection of
    containers was considered in the quantified benefits. Nonetheless over the period January 2003 to June
    2004, in excess of US$8.9 million of smuggled goods were seized, using the newly acquired X-Ray
    equipment.

   Economic Impact of Increased Trade. The link between trade facilitation, trade expansion, and
    Customs revenue collection clearly exist but is difficult to quantify, as a result of the multiplicity of
    other factors influencing the macro-economic development and trade of the TTFSE countries.
    Company competitiveness, in particular their ability to deliver reliably their inputs in international
    supply chain, depends nonetheless on their capacity to assess border transaction cost (direct and time
    cost) with a fair degree of certainty. Since 1999, Romania, and other countries involved in the TTFSE
    program enjoyed very strong growth of their trade volumes. In Romania, trade increased from US$18.1
    billion (1999) to US$41.6 billion (2003), with export more than doubling to reach US$17.6 billion,
    while imports grew to US$24 billion. In the meantime, Customs collected revenues increased from
    US$1.5 billion to US$3.6 billion, despite reductions in tariff rates, illustrating their ability to better
    capture legitimate trade. For the purpose of the economic rate of return calculation a very conservative
    20 percent of additional transport benefits linked to increased trade was added, as per the approach
    used during appraisal.


                                                   - 30 -

                  Economic Cost-Benefit Analysis




                        COSTS            BENEFITS
     YEAR                                                   Net Benefits
                    (in US$ million)   (in US$ million)   (in US$ million)
      2000                        1.1                 0.2                -0.9
      2001                        7.7                 1.6                -6.1
      2002                        4.7                 1.8                -2.9
      2003                        0.5                 2.6                 2.1
      2004                        0.5                 3.9                 3.4
      2005                        0.5                 4.1                 3.6
      2006                        0.5                 4.2                 3.7
      2007                        0.5                 4.3                 3.8
      2008                        0.5                 4.4                 3.9
      2009                        0.5                 4.6                 4.1
      2010                        0.5                 4.7                 4.2
      2011                        0.5                 4.9                 4.4
      2012                        0.5                 5.0                 4.5
      2013                        0.5                 5.2                 4.7
      2014                        0.5                 5.3                 4.8
      2015                        0.5                 5.3                 4.8
      2016                        0.5                 5.3                 4.8


     Total                       20.5                67.3               46.7
Internal Rate of Return                                        27%


Discount Rate                               12%
NPV @ 12%                        12.9                22.7                 9.9




                                                          - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Supervision

               12/11/2000                 2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S               S
                                               SENIOR CUSTOMS SPEC. (1)
               12/11/2000                 3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S               S
                                               CUSTOMS SPECIALIST (1);
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               10/30/2001                 3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S               S
                                               CUSTOMS SPECIALIST (1);
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               04/19/2002                 3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S               S
                                               CUSTOMS SPECIALIST (1);
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               09/27/2002                 3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.            S               S
                                               CUSTOMS SPECIALIST (1);
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               02/15/2003                 2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S               S
                                               CONSULTANT (1)
               10/03/2003                 2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S               S
                                               CONSULTANT (1)
               03/16/2004                 2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S               S
                                               CONSULTANT (1)


 ICR
               03/16/2004                2     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                               CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Supervision                              48.3                          285.1
  ICR                                        6.0                           20.0
  Total                                    54.3                          305.1




                                               - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports

2. Project Progress Reports

3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project

4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated October, 2004

5. Project Appraisal Document for Romania Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
   Project, dated May 16, 2000 (Report No. 20407-RO)

6. Project Economic Evaluation




                                                - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report

INTRODUCTION

The Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project (TTFSE) formed a part of the Regional
TTFSE Program that aimed to strengthen and modernize the customs administrations and other border
control agencies in Romania, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, and the FYR of
Macedonia, and subsequently, in Moldova and the former Yugoslav Republic of Serbia and Montenegro.
All these countries seek to promote more efficient and less costly trade flows across the borders and
provide EU-compatible customs standards. This requires the cooperation of the participating countries and
a mutual sharing of concerns for the reform of their Customs services. To assist such cooperation and
facilitate the sharing of information, a Regional Steering Committee (RSC) has been created, where all
participating countries are represented and have signed a Memorandum of Understanding detailing its role
and activities.

Romania has made considerable effort to improve its border crossings with external aid. Despite the
resulting progress, further efforts were still required. The border-crossing problem, by its nature, requires
coordinated and mutually reinforcing actions in many areas. The reform effort is integrated to ensure
complementarity between assistance from the EU, the US and the World Bank.

The TTFSE Project was related to two priority objectives outlined in the Government's strategy document
"Development 2000 Program", emphasized by the assistance strategy of the Bank Group for Romania: (i)
Promoting Structural Reform and Private Sector Development: the highest support was given to
support for policy reforms to further liberalize trade, eliminate direct government participation in the
sector, and establish the prerequisites for efficiency in markets; (ii) Strengthening and Rationalizing the
Role of the State: the Bank supported, as a key criterion for EU accession, the strengthening of public
administration, the economic policy reforms, including delicensing, regulatory and tax simplification, and
competitive privatization, especially to reduce the opportunities for corruption.

The project was supposed to:

   support the restructuring of Romanian customs administration to facilitate legitimate trade and transit
    flows, to better serve trade activities by reducing non-tariff transport costs, lowering the price of
    imported goods, and improving the competitiveness of Romanian products, thereby promoting private
    sector growth and creation of new jobs in the country;

   support the Romanian customs administration in strengthening its tax collection capacity and enforcing
    several international conventions relating to the environment, while reinforcing on-going efforts against
    corruption;

   improve the border crossing infrastructure allowing a cost-efficient cross-border system with positive
    results for road transport; and

   ensure better cooperation with other national border agencies, as well as with other customs services,
    given the regional character of the project.

PROJECT DATA




                                                     - 36 -

1. Development Objectives

    a) To reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
    b) To reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.

2. Project Components and Sub-components

                            A. Customs Administration Institutional Reform

                      Component                                             Sub-component
1. Monitoring and review of procedures                  1.1 Assistance to monitor Customs Administration's
                                                        performance
                                                        1.2 Assistance to streamline operations at two border
                                                        posts and one inland terminal on a pilot basis
2. Training                                             2.1 Training for interagency awareness and cooperation



                                    B. Trade Facilitation Development

                      Component                                             Sub-component
1. Strengthening of private-public partnership          1.1 Improvement of cooperation between public and
                                                        private parties by using a virtual forum (creation of an
                                                        internet website that will enable exchange of views, user
                                                        surveys and consultation through the Romanian Center
                                                        for Foreign Trade/Trade Point), and provision of
                                                        equipment to support information availability
2. Improvement of the performance of trade facilitation 2.1 Provision of technical assistance and advisory
agents                                                  services to trade and international transport participants
                                                        through the Chamber of Commerce and Industry



                 C. Improvement of Integrated Customs Information Systems (ICIS)

                      Component                                             Sub-component
1. Equipment for ICIS improvement                       1.1 Bar code equipment for clearance management
                                                        1.2 Equipment for trade information points in Customs
                                                        stations
                                                        1.3 Upgrading computer facilities at Customs stations
                                                        1.4 Computers and software for training in an
                                                        automated work environment
2. Support for ICIS improvement                         2.1 Management control system for headquarters and
                                                        regional offices
                                                        2.2 Control system for traffic movement
3. ICIS personnel training                              3.1 Regional experience sharing program



                             D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities

                      Component                                             Sub-component
1. Expansion of Siret Border Station                    1.1 Siret Border Station infrastructure works at the main



                                                     - 37 -

                                                    border station with Ukraine
                                                    1.2 Supervision of civil works
2. Modernization of Constanta customs station       2.1 Fixed X-ray system for containers, trucks and cars
                                                    inspection
3. Enhancement of processing capacity at customs    3.1 Mobile X-ray systems for containers and trucks
stations                                            inspection
                                                    3.2 X-ray control machines for cargo inspection
                                                    3.3 Fiberoptiscopes for examinations in constricted and
                                                    inaccessible locations
                                                    3.4 Contraband detectors
                                                    3.5 Identifiers for drugs and explosives
4. Security and cargo monitoring                    4.1 Video system for surveillance



                                E. Program and Project Implementation

                     Component                                           Sub-component
1. PMU and Auditors                                 1.1 PMU staffing, FMS establishment, training, and
                                                    procurement consultants to PMU
2. RSC Secretariat and Procurement advisors         2.1 Consulting Services



3. Financing Plan (including taxes US$ million)

          Source                     Local                   Foreign                        Total
Government of Romania                  8.7                      0.0                          8.7
USA                                    0.1                      1.4                          1.4
IBRD                                   0.7                      16.4                        17.1
Total                                  9.4                      17.8                        27.2



4. Legal Agreements and Subsequent Amendments

An Advance for Preparation of the Proposed TTFSE Project in an amount of US$100,000 has been
granted, based on the Agreement Letter P372-0-RO, signed by the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (IBRD) on February 25, 2000 and by the Government of Romania, through the Ministry
of Finance, on March 10, 2000, and ratified by Emergency Governmental Ordinance no. 108/June 29,
2000.

The Loan Agreement between Romania and International IBRD -- 4560 RO -- has been signed on July 7,
2000, and ratified by Governmental Ordinance no. 77/ August 24, 2000, which has been approved by the
Parliament through the Law no. 165/ April 9, 2001. The Loan Agreement entered into effectiveness on
November 6, 2000.

The first Amendment to the Loan Agreement has been signed by IBRD on August 20, 2002 and by the
Government of Romania on October 25, 2002, based on the Customs Administration and the Ministry of
Public Finance's request to modify the procurement sections of the Agreement, respectively to include
"Direct Contracting" as an "Other Procurement Procedure" for goods which are of proprietary nature. The
Amendment has been ratified by Governmental Decision no. 220/ February 27, 2003.



                                                 - 38 -

On July 4, 2003, based on the Customs Administration's letter dated June 10, 2003, the Ministry of Public
Finance (MPF) requested to the World Bank (WB) the increase of the civil works disbursement percentage
from 30% to 65%, the loan extension with six months to enable the finalization of civil works from 31
December 2003 to June 30, 2004, the cancellation of the unspent loan amount (USD4,465,508), and no
objection for procurement of the third mobile X-ray unit for Constanta Port, provided that the Bank's
conditionalities have been fulfilled.

On July 31, 2003 the WB informed the MPF and the Customs about its no objection for extension of the
Loan Closing Date to June 30, 2004 and for procurement of the third mobile X-ray unit, and sent the
official letter for amending the Loan Agreement in order to increase the civil works disbursement
percentage and to cancel the unspent loan amount.

The second Amendment to the Loan Agreement has been signed by the WB on July 31, 2003 and by the
Government of Romania on September 29, 2003, and ratified by Governmental Decision no. 1002/ June
25, 2004. The Schedule 1 "Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan" has been amended as follows:


                           Initial Loan    % of Expenditures to     Amended Loan       % of Expenditures to
      Category          Allocation (USD)        be Financed        Allocation (USD)         be Financed
 7. Works                     1,300,000.00          30%                  2,770,000.00            65%
 Goods:                     13,700,000.00 100% of foreign                9,600,000.00 100% of foreign
                                           expenditures, 100% of                        expenditures, 100%
                                           local expenditures                           of local expenditures
                                           (ex-factory cost) and                        (ex-factory cost) and
                                           84% of local                                 84% of local
                                           expenditures for other                       expenditures for other
                                           items procured locally                       items procured locally
 Consultant Services            400,000.00          100%                   120,000.00           100%
 and Training
 8. Incremental                 100,000.00          100%                   130,000.00           100%
 Operating Costs
 9. Refinancing of              100,000.00 Amount due under                 14,491.58 Amount due under
 Project Preparation                       Section 2.02 (b) of                          Section 2.02 (b) of
 Advance                                   this Agreement                               this Agreement
 10. Unallocated              1,500,000.00                                         0.0
 Total                      17,100,000.00                               12,634,491.58



On October 9 2003, the World Bank reconfirmed the extension of the Loan closing date to June 30, 2004.

Other Modifications of the Project Components

Cancellation of the sub-component 2.1 "Fixed X-ray system", within component D "Improvement of
Border Crossing Facilities", proposed to be acquired for containers and trucks inspection at Constanta
Customs Office. The Customs administration reconsidered the proposition of procurement of the fixed
X-ray system, due to technical (the acquisition of the land necessary for building up the system, which was
not possible) and costs constraints and requested to the Bank the annulment of the tender for the "Fixed
X-Ray system" sub-component and re-allocation of funds to the mobile X-ray systems sub-component in
December 2000, and received the No Objection in January 2001. The third mobile X-ray system procured



                                                    - 39 -

in 2004 replaced the fixed one initially proposed.

Cancellation of the sub-component 4.1 "Video system for surveillance, security and cargo monitoring"
proposed for Constanta Port, within component D "Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities", in July
2003, based on the Customs administration's request due to the fact that the Constanta Port became port
which benefits from measures for operating facilitation (operating in a large measure as a free port), and
there was no need for the Customs administration to install and operate the video surveillance system in the
port, its limited surveillance responsibilities being similar to those specific to a free port.

Cancellation of sub-component 3.1 "ICIS Personnel Training -- Regional experience sharing workshop",
within component C "Romanian Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS)", in May 2004.

PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION

Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

Romania, through its Ministry of Public Finance, has been the borrower for the World Bank loan. The
implementation arrangements included the following elements: (i) a project manager and a project
management unit; (ii) a project coordinator; (iii) a facilitation coordinator; (iv) a website coordinator, and
(v) a regional steering committee (RSC).

The implementing agency has been the General Customs Directorate (GCD) within the Ministry of Public
Finance, which became the National Customs Authority (NCA) within the National Authority of Control,
starting with October 2, 2003. The GCD management has appointed a Project Manager and established a
Project Management Unit (PMU) covering procurement, loan management and reporting functions
acceptable to the Bank. The Project Coordinator has been the general manager of GCD, who chaired
coordination meetings of the various border control agencies and managed their input, and represented the
country at the Regional Steering Committee. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry managed the trade
facilitation component, and provided a Facilitation Coordinator, who interacted with the Project Manager
for the implementation of the component. Trade Point has been organized and interacted similarly, as
Website Coordinator.




                                                      - 40 -

Procurement Arrangements

                                     Number of
                                    Procurement                    Value (in US$ equivalent)
                                 Packages/Number of Financed from Financed from the
Procurement/Selection Method         Contracts         the IBRD Loan Local Contribution          Total
                                                                             (GOR)
1. International Competitive            4/10               10,651,441           2,424,469       13,075,880
Bidding (ICB)
2. Direct Contracting (DC)              1/2                   548,183              35,241          583,424
3. Least Cost Selection (LCS)           1/1                    28,000               5,320           33,320
4. Individual Consultants (IC)          1/4                    30,234               1,024           31,258
11. Other:
N/A for PMU staff, and FMS
establishment                           1/5                   135,223             116,616          251,839

Costs associated with PMU
training in the Bank and other
training center (TF)                    3/3                     8,039                    0            8,039

N/A/ for supervision of works
(100% locally financed)                 1/2                         0              17,582           17.582

Total                                                      11,401,090           2,600,252       14,001,342



PROJECT COSTS - USE OF FUNDS

1. Use of Loan Funds (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                              Percentage of
Initial Loan Amount      Amended Loan     Actual Used Amount          Initial               Amended
                             Amount
         17.1                 12.6                 11.4                67%                    91%



2. Project Financing by Year (in US$ million equivalent)

        Financier            FY 2001        FY 2002           FY 2003        FY 2004            Total
IBRD Loan                      1.9             1.2              5.7            2.6               11.4
Government of Romania         0.05             0.05             1.5            1.0                2.6
USA                            0.3             0.3              0.3            0.3                1.2
Total                         2.25             1.55             7.5            3.9               15.2




             Component                       Sub-component                          Results
                                                                               (see details below)
A. Customs Administration           1.1 Assistance to monitor Customs A set of productivity indicators to
Institutional Reform                Administration's performance      measure the performance of



                                                  - 41 -

                                                                          Customs Administration enabling
                                                                          international comparisons has been
                                                                          refined and the monitoring systems
                                                                          have been designed.
1. Monitoring and review of         1.2 Assistance to streamline          Substantial progress in introducing
procedures                          operations at two border posts and    and using selectivity in Customs
                                    one inland terminal on a pilot basis control has been achieved.
                                                                          Follow-up on performance
                                                                          monitoring and gradually expansion
                                                                          to all other Customs locations,
                                                                          beyond the project's life, have been
                                                                          planned and implementation has
                                                                          started.
2. Training                         2.1 Training for interagency          Training on environmental issues,
                                    awareness and cooperation             with emphasis on protection and
                                                                          control of endangered species and of
                                                                          hazardous materials has been
                                                                          provided to the Customs staff by the
                                                                          Ministry of Waters and
                                                                          Environmental Protection.
B. Trade Facilitation Development   1.1 Improvement of cooperation        A national website in Romanian
                                    between public and private parties    language has been created, and the
1. Strengthening of private-public  by using a virtual forum (creation of information has been translated into
partnership                         an internet website that will enable  English and made them available on
                                    exchange of views, user surveys and the regional website. Although the
                                    consultation through the Romanian website is operational, it is still
                                    Center for Foreign Trade/Trade        experiencing difficulties regarding
                                    Point), and provision of equipment    the provision of information by the
                                    to support information availability.  various governmental agencies
                                                                          involved in trade and international
                                                                          transport.
2. Improvement of the performance   2.1 Provision of technical assistance Very good progress on the delivery
of trade facilitation agents        and advisory services to trade and    of conventional and distance
                                    international transport participants  learning programs to the private
                                    through the Chamber of Commerce sector. A total of 950 people have
                                    and Industry (CCI)                    participated in the training modules
                                                                          delivered by the CCI in about 30
                                                                          cities of Romania. The public
                                                                          outreach events were equally
                                                                          successful.
C. Improvement of Integrated        1.1 Bar code equipment for            Completed.
Customs Information Systems (ICIS) clearance management
1. Equipment for ICIS improvement   1.2 Equipment for trade information Completed.
                                    points in Customs stations
                                    1.3 Upgrading computer facilities in Completed.
                                    Customs stations
                                    1.4 Computers and software for        Completed.
                                    training in an automated work
                                    environment
2. Support for ICIS improvement     2.1 Management control system for Completed.
                                    headquarters and regional offices
                                    2.2 Control system for traffic        Not committed, due to the delays in
                                    movement                              implementation of the New



                                                   - 42 -

                                                                            Computerized Transit System
                                                                            (NCTS) under the Phare 2002
                                                                            Project, and the needed information
                                                                            could not be provided.
 3. ICIS personnel training            3.1 Regional experience sharing      Cancelled (see Section II paragraph
                                       program                              4 : "Other modifications of the
                                                                            project components")
 D. Improvement of Border Crossing     1.1 Siret border station             Completed.
 Facilities                            infrastructure works at the main
                                       border station with Ukraine
 1. Expansion of Siret border station  1.2 Supervision of civil works       Completed.
 2. Modernization of Constanta         2.1 Fixed X-ray system for           Cancelled (see Section II paragraph
 customs station                       containers, trucks and cars          4 : "Other modifications of the
                                       inspection                           project components")
 3. Enhancement of processing          3.1 Mobile X-ray systems for         Completed.
 capacity at customs stations          containers and trucks inspection
                                       3.2 X-ray control machines for cargo Completed.
                                       inspection
                                       3.3 Fiberoptiscopes for examinations Completed.
                                       in constricted and inaccessible
                                       locations
                                       3.4 Contraband detectors             Completed.
                                       3.5 Identifiers for drugs and        Completed
                                       explosives
 4. Security and cargo monitoring      4.1 Video system for surveillance    Cancelled (see Section II paragraph
                                                                            4 : "Other modifications of the
                                                                            project components")
 E. Program and Project                PMU staffing, FMS establishment,     Completed.
 Implementation                        PMU training, procurement
                                       consultants to PMU, and consulting
                                       services for audit

Project Implementation Performance

About 27% of the loan amount (about US$4.5 million) was cancelled due to savings, replacement of the
procurement package for the expensive fixed X-ray equipment by a mobile one, and cancellation of the
security and cargo monitoring equipment (explanations provided in Section II, paragraph 4). About 91% of
the current loan amount has been committed as of June 30, 2004 and disbursed as of July 31, 2004. The
remaining un-disbursed 9% of the loan amount appeared to be due to some savings resulting from the
difference between the estimated and contracted amount of civil works as well as from the two minor ICIS
contracts (the control traffic study and the training package, as explained above).

Although changes in the project components structure appeared, the project scope has not been affected,
and all the contracts included in the project components, with the few exceptions presented, have been
successfully executed.

Achievements

The overall TTFSE project implementation performance, and the development objectives ratings have been
satisfactory. At the national level, all but one development objective achievement indicators met or
exceeded the targets, showing an overall improvement in Customs Administration productivity. Thus,


                                                       - 43 -

between 2001 and 2003, the Customs revenues have registered over 100% increase, from US$1.7 billion to
US$3.6 billion, as well as the revenues collected by Customs officer, which increased by 142%, from
US$345.651 to US$838.587. Also, the trade volume has doubled, from US$21 billion to US$42 billion, as
well as the trade volume/Customs staff, which increased by 133%, from US$4.2 million to US$9.7 million.

At the monitored pilot sites level, although not all the performance indicators have met the targets, between
2001 and June 30, 2004 significant reduction of the clearance/waiting times has been registered, especially
at Bacau (76%) and Constanta (46%) pilot sites. Also, the Customs Administration have successfully
introduced the selectivity module of Asycuda in customs control, that resulted not only in the reduction of
the clearance times, but also in substantial reduction of the trucks/containers physical examination at all
monitored pilot sites (76% at Bacau, 74% at Constanta, 67% at Giurgiu).

During the first year (2003) and the first six months of the second year (2004) of operation of the X-ray
equipment purchased with the loan proceeds, detection of smuggling and narcotics has increased. About
28% of the seizures (or US$7.7 million) in 2003, and about 27% (or US$1.2 million) in the first half of
2004, were made using the newly purchased X-ray equipment.

Borrower/Implementing Agency Performance

The Borrower's (namely the Ministry of Public Finance) performance in the preparation of the project was
satisfactory. It consistently maintained its commitment throughout the project's implementation. The
National Customs Authority's performance, which was responsible for the overall implementation of the
project, was also satisfactory. The management's and the PMU's staff worked closely with the Bank's
project team, in taking corrective implementation measures and solving operational issues. The PMU was
very effective in dealing with procurement, loan management, disbursement and reporting functions. It
proved commitment, flexibility and ability to identify practical solutions and meet tight deadlines. During
the project's life, the Project Management Unit has prepared timely quarterly progress reports on project
implementation, and furnished to the Bank timely audit reports on the Project Financial Statements,
prepared by an independent auditor in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing, which were
considered acceptable to the Bank.

Bank's and Co-financiers' Performance

The Bank's performance in the preparation, appraisal, review and supervision of the project was
satisfactory. During the project's implementation, the project was closely monitored by review teams
providing flexibility, responsiveness, and extensive assistance, and through seven supervision missions with
regularly prepared and transmitted Aide-Memoires, flagging issues and defining concrete steps and agreed
actions for solving the issues. The supervision missions was regularly joined by the US Customs Advisory
Team (STAT), which brought their knowledge and expertise in the Customs institutional reforms
assessment, data collection, monitoring of performance indicators, and selectivity.

Lessons Learned

   Replication of the pilot approach at all the border crossings and inland terminals will lead to
    achieving a full impact of the procedural reforms, while continuing to measure the results through the
    performance indicators built under TTFSE Project. The National Customs Authority has already
    prepared a Monitoring Replication Plan, agreed with the Bank, and its implementation has already
    started since June 2004 in the first 18 new sites, with the US Advisory Team support.




                                                     - 44 -

 Extension of introducing the selected verifications in Customs control will be one of the major
  factors in improving clearance delays and increasing the effectiveness of the Customs control. The
  better results achieved at the pilot sites by using the selective procedure has proved its efficiency.

 Training of the Customs staff on using the streamlined procedures, aligned to international best
  practice (selectivity, advance clearance, using the modern facilities), is of great importance in
  increasing their awareness on changing the working mentality and improving their efficiency.

 Inter-agency cooperation at the border crossing points is essential for successful implementation of
  the streamlined procedures in order to ensure trade facilitation, while ensuring an efficient control at the
  border.

 Government support to impose on other public agencies adequate reforms is also essential for
  achieving the project objectives, as well as for ensuring their sustainability.




                                                    - 45 -

- 46 -

