Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4560 RO
Loan Agreement
(Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 7, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4560 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 2000, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A)
 the Borrower has entered into a Memorandum of 
Understanding (MOU) on February 10, 2000 with other Participating 
Countries (as hereinafter defined) confirming the Participating 
Countries’ commitment to a regional trade and transport facilitation 
program (the Regional Program);
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the  Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project which 
forms part of the Borrower’s activities under the Regional Program; and
(C)
to assist in financing the Project and other measures 
included in the Regional Program, the Borrower intends to obtain 
assistance from another external source of finance in an amount of about 
$1,400,000 equivalent.  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30,1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Customs Reform Strategy” means the strategy satisfactory to 
the Bank adopted by the Borrower, describing the measures to be taken 
during the period of project implementation to strengthen GCD;
(b) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, satisfactory 
to the Bank, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, describing the 
environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for the 
Project;
(c)
“GCD” means the General Customs Directorate of the MOF;
(d)
“ICIS” means the integrated customs information system of 
the GCD to be supported under Part C of the Project;
(e)
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
(f)
“Participating Country” means each country participating in 
the Regional Program;
(g)
“Pilot Sites” means the Bacau inland customs terminal and 
the Giurgiu and Constanta Customs Stations;
(h)
“PIP” means the project implementation plan, including the 
Customs Reform Strategy and an Environmental Management Plan, adopted by 
the Borrower, setting out measures required for implementation of the 
Project;
(i)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit, established within 
GCD and operating under the Project Manager;
(j) 
“Project Coordinator” means the Project Coordinator 
designated by the Borrower to be responsible for coordination of the 
activities of all agencies of the Borrower, under the Project and to 
represent the Borrower in the RSC;
(k)
“Project Manager” means the head of the PMU;
(l)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(m)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project Preparation 
Advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of 
letters dated February 25, 2000 and March 10, 2000;
(n)
“RSC” means the Regional Steering Committee established by 
the Participating Countries under the MOU to oversee implementation of 
the Regional Program; 
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(p)
“Website Coordinator” means the coordinator to be designated 
Page  3
for purposes of Part B of the Project by the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Industry and Commerce.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to seventeen million one hundred thousand dollars ($17,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation 
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid 
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Borrower shall pay the amount of the said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from 
and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding 
the next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank 
offered rate for six-month 
deposits in United States dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest 
Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the 
first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the 
Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered 
Page  4
rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, 
in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; 
as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through GCD and the Project 
Coordinator, acting under the general supervision of MOF, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative, environmental and technical practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower, acting through GCD, shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the PIP and the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Page  5
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, acting through GCD, shall establish 
and at all times maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower, acting through GCD, shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank 
who 
shall be appointed within six months of the Effective Date of this 
Agreement;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as 
so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, 
records and accounts and the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower, acting through GCD, shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower, acting through GCD, shall carry out 
a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of 
the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than November 30, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
Page  6
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower, acting through GCD, shall 
prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the 
MOU shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated, waived or 
otherwise modified so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of the Borrower to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that the 
event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the PMU has been established with staff (including a 
procurement officer, accountant, administrative and other personnel), 
functions and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and with 
resources and a financial management system satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
the Borrower has selected, for purposes of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date 
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  7
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
17, Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania
Telex: 
11239
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year 
first above written.
ROMANIA
By /s/ Decebal Traian Remes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink
Country Director
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.  General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Page  8
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Works 
   1,300,000
30%
(2)
Goods
  13,700,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures,
100% of 
local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) 
and 84% of local 
expenditures for other
items 
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
     400,000
100%
           and training
(4)    Incremental Operating Costs 
     100,000
100%
(5)
Refinancing of 
     100,000
Amount 
due under 
Project Preparation
Section 
2.02 (b) of this 
Advance
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
   1,500,000
TOTAL
  17,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental 
operating costs of the PMU incurred on account of Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including staff salaries, and the cost of 
establishing a financial management system for the Project; and
(d) 
the term “training” means training activities (other than 
consultants’ services) to be carried out under the Project, including the 
cost of workshops and the travel cost and per diem of the trainees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made under Categories (1), (2), (3), 
(4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 to this Schedule until 
the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement has been paid.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
Page  9
on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) works under contracts 
costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) contracts for 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) 
contracts for individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
each; and (v) training and operating costs, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower, acting through GCD, shall open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account, in a commercial bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of 
amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of the Annex to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this 
Agreement any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
Page  10
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of the Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, 
that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equal to $500,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such 
request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  11
The objectives of the Project are: (a) the reduction of the 
non-tariff costs of trade and transport at the Borrower’s borders; and 
(b) the reduction of smuggling and corruption at the border crossings of 
the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Reform of Customs Administration
Implementation of measures for reform of customs administration, 
including: (a) enhancement of the enforcement systems; (b) improvement of 
the customs information system; (c) establishment of a customs training 
organization; (d) formation of a set of productivity and workload 
indicators for each customs function and the design of a corresponding 
monitoring system; (e) formulation and application at the Pilot Sites of 
new operating methods; and (f) training of customs personnel and of 
personnel of other relevant agencies on various aspects of customs 
functions.
Part B:
Trade Facilitation Development
Implementation, through the provision of technical assistance, 
training and equipment, of trade facilitation measures, including: (a) 
implementation of a regional web-site, including a mechanism to update 
it, in support of the Regional Program; and (b)  provision of technical 
assistance and training to trade personnel and other trade facilitation 
and transportation personnel. 
Part C:
ICIS
Implementation of measures in support of ICIS, including: (a) 
improvement and upgrading of software and hardware, including the control 
system of traffic movement; and (b) training of ICIS personnel. 
Part D:
Border Crossing Facilities
Carrying out improvements of border crossing facilities, including: 
(a)  expansion of the Siret border station; (b) modernization of 
Constanta customs station; (c) improvement of processing capacity at 
customs stations, including provision of necessary equipment, technical 
assistance and training; and (d) improvement and upgrading of security 
and supervision systems at customs stations. 
Part E:
Project and Regional Program Support
Provision of technical and material assistance, including auditing 
services to support the activities of PMU and RSC, and training of PMU 
staff. 
***
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
             (Expressed in 
Dollars)** 
October 15, 2005
345,000
April 15, 2006
355,000
October 15, 2006
365,000
Page  12
April 15, 2007
380,000
October 15, 2007
390,000
April 15, 2008
405,000
October 15, 2008
415,000
April 15, 2009
430,000
October 15, 2009
445,000
April 15, 2010
460,000
October 15, 2010
475,000
April 15, 2011
490,000
October 15, 2011
505,000
April 15, 2012
520,000
October 15, 2012
540,000
April 15, 2013
555,000
October 15, 2013
575,000
April 15, 2014
595,000
October 15, 2014
615,000
April 15, 2015
635,000
October 15, 2015
655,000
April 15, 2016
675,000
October 15, 2016
700,000
April 15, 2017
720,000
October 15, 2017
745,000
April 15, 2018
770,000
October 15, 2018
795,000
April 15, 2019
820,000
October 15, 2019
850,000
April 15, 2020
875,000
__________________________
**
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  13
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part B of this section the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the carrying out of audits under the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for ICIS personnel training estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Selection of Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Page  14
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract with firms estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.
Implementation Responsibilities
(1)
The PMU, acting under the Project Manager, shall perform all 
technical responsibilities for Project Implementation, including (a) 
preparation of an annual plan for project implementation, (b)  
preparation, with the assistance of consultants, of bidding and contract 
documents under the Project, (c) the maintenance of the Project financial 
records and accounts and arranging for the audit thereof, (d) preparation 
of the quarterly reports on Project progress, referred to in Part B of 
this Schedule, and (c) supervision of progress of project implementation.
(2)
The Borrower, acting through GCD, shall insure that the PMU shall 
be maintained until the completion of the Project under terms of 
references and with staff and other measures satisfactory to the Bank. 
(3)
The Borrower, acting through GCD, shall ensure: (a) that each 
annual plan for Project implementation referred to paragraph (1) above 
shall be prepared after a review between the Borrower and the Bank of 
progress in meeting the targets indicated in the PIP, including the 
targets set forth in the Annex to this Schedule; and (b) that the 
inclusion of investments and other Project activities in said plan, as 
well as the procurement arrangements thereof, shall be made in agreement 
between the Borrower and the Bank, taking into account the requirements 
set forth in the Environmental Management Plan. 
(4)
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain its participation in the RSC; and 
(b)  inform the Bank of actions taken at the RSC level which may affect 
the implementation of the Regional Program or of measures included in the 
PIP.
(5)
The Borrower shall ensure the establishment by the Project 
Coordinator, by March 31, 2001, of mechanisms at all border agencies to 
provide the Website Coordinator with current information to be made 
Page  15
available to customs users, on waiting times and opening hours at border 
crossing and customs regulations and procedures of border agencies.
B.
Reporting
The Borrower, acting through GCD, shall: (a) ensure the preparation 
by PMU for submission to the Bank, of quarterly report on the progress of 
project implementation, and (b) the consolidation of said reports into 
semi-annual progress reports to be submitted to the Bank and RSC. 
C.
Monitoring
The Borrower, acting through GCD, shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
included in the PIP, including those set forth in the Annex to this 
schedule;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, by October 15 of each year, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by November 15 of each year, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Annex to SCHEDULE 5
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower, acting 
through GCD,  shall take all necessary measures to achieve the following 
targets:
(a)
The total number of customs declarations which result in a 
physical inspection by the GCD at its pilot inland terminal does not 
exceed monthly: (i) 85% by September 30, 2000; (ii) 50% by September 30, 
2001; and (iii) 45% by September 30, 2002; 
(b)
The monthly number of trucks completing import clearance in 
less than 15 minutes at its pilot inland terminal will exceed: (i) 10% by 
September 30, 2000; (ii) 20% by September 30, 2001; and (iii) 35% by 
September 30, 2002; 
(c) 
The number of trucks opened monthly at its pilot border 
crossing of Giurgiu will not exceed: (i) 40% by September 30, 2000; (ii) 
35% by September 30, 2001; and (iii) 30% by September 30, 2002; and
(d)
The number of containers opened monthly at its pilot border 
crossing of Constanta will not exceed: (i) 65% by September 30, 2000; 
(ii) 50% by September 30, 2001; and (iii) 40% by September 30, 2002.
