JILE  CRPY                              R E SRESTRICTED
Report No. PA-ZZa
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DRAINAGE AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
CEYLON
September 17, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRNCY 34UIVAIfNTS
At "Official" Exchazxe Rate:
US$1.00      - Ceylon Rupeea (Rs) 5.95
Rs 1.00      * US$0.168
Rs 1 million - US$1680070
At Higher Effective Exchange Rate:
US$I.00      - Ceylon Rupees (Rs) 9.23
RS 1.00      - US$0.108
Rs 1 million  US$108*340
WEIGHTS AND MK&SURES
1 acre (ac)            - o0.05 hectares
1 mile (Mi)            - 1.609 kilometers
1 square mile (sq mi) - 2.590 square kilometers
1 inch (in)            - 2.5  centimeters
1 foot (ft)            - 0.3048 meters
1 metric ton (m ton)  - 2,204 pounds
IWCAL ME;ASURES
1 bushel (bu) paddy - 46 pounds paddy
48 bushels          - 1 metric ton
ABBREVIATIONS
MSL - Mean Sea Level



CEYLON
DRAINACE AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .......................    i i
I.     INTRODUCTION .      ........................................ 1
II.     BACKGROUND ...........      ...............................  2
III.     PROJECT AREA ....................                            3
A. General. .                                                3
Lands .    .................3.......                    3
Climate..                                               4
Soils   .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      4
Topography and Drainage .             .                 5
B. Agricultural Aspects.                                     5
Present Crop Production.                                5
Land Tenure and Farm Size.                              6
Population                   ..                         6
Marketing and Transportation.                           6
Supporting Services.                                    6
IV.     THE PROJECT . ..................................             7
A. Description.                                              7
B. Proposed Works.                                           8
Drains . ..                                             8
Drainage Outlets.                                       8
Flood Control and Supporting Works .        .           8
Construction Equipment.                                 9
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing .10
Status of Engineering.                                 10
Cost Estimates   .               .10
Financing   . .11
Procurement.                                           11
Disbursement   .                .11
Accounts and Auditing   .            .11
This report was prepared by Messrs. Douglass, Myint and Chang and is based
on findings of a mission composed of Douglass, Chang, Sonley (Bank) and
Boumendil (FAO) which visited Ceylon in September 1967, and subsequent
missions comprising of Messrs. Douglass (Bank), Oudshoorn and De Glopper
(FAO consultants) in December 1968 and Chang in March 1969.



Table of Contents (ctd.)
Page No.
V.     ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............ .............   12
A.   Designation of Responsibility ....      ..............   12
Construction ...................................   12
Agriculture Development .....      ...................   12
Coordinating Machinery .........................   13
Operation and Maintenance .....      .................   13
B.   Recovery of Costs ..............................   13
VI.     PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES   .14
A.   Production ......................................   14
B.   Market Prospects ...............................   14
C.   Prices .........     ................................    15
D.   Farm Incomes ...................................   15
VII.     BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............. .............   16
VIII.     RECOMMENDATIONS .................. ...................   17
ANNEXES
1.   Present and proposed land use of project area
2.   Soils
3.   Factors affecting rice yield
Table 1: Basic yields under normal conditions
Table 2: Estimate of present yield in project area
Table 3: Estimate of future yield in project area
Table 4: Increment of yield before and after project
4.   Extension service in districts containing project
5.   Cost estimates, equipment and materials and expenditure schedule
Page 1:  Cost Estimates
Page 2: Equipment and Materials
Page 3: Expenditure Schedule and Capital Costs
6.   Acreage, yield and production with aad without project
7.   Market prospects and prices for rice
8.   Rate of return to the economy
Page 2: Family Labor Cost included
Page 3: Family Labor Cost excluded
MAP
Ceylon DrainaFe and Reclamation Project



CEYLON
DRAINAGE AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report contains the appraisal of a drainage and reclamation
project to benefit 13,200 ac in six non-contiguous areas on Ceylon's south-
west coast for which an IDA credit of US$ 2.5 million equIvalent is proposed.
Agriculture is the largest single sector in C        ln 'q Peonory.  The nrimar-
aim of the Government's agricultural policy is to be self-sufficient in food
crops, particularly rice, and to reduce foreign exchangt expenditutres for 'm'-
ports. The southwest coast is the most densely populated area of Ceylon and
all lands now suitable for agriculture are utilized. The project would re-
claim low lying swamp lands making them suitable for double cropped paddy and
contribute to Ceylon's effort to become more nearly self-sufficient in rice.
ii.       The project area consists or low lying lands along strean courses
and adjacent to coastal lagoons. These areas suffer from high water table
conditions and frequent flooding. Agricultural production in the proJect
area is limited and hazardous due to the poor drainage conditions and
frequent flooding. The project works would improve drainage conditions,
reduce flood hazards and minimize saltwater intrusion and make the area
suitable for dependable double cropping of paddy. Project works involve
improvement of the existing drainage system by deepening, enlargement and ex-
tension of the system, improvement of the drainage outlets to the sea and con-
struction of levees with control structures so drainage can be controlled and
the lands protected from all except major floods.
iii.      The estimated cost of the project is Rs 24.4 million (US$ 4.10 mil-
lion equivalent) of which Rs 10.0 million (US$ 1.7 mil'lon equivalent) would
be foreign exchange. The proposed IDA credit of US$ 2.5 million equivalent
would cover approximately 60% of the total cost and be used to finance imports
of construction equipment and materials, the foreign exchange component of an
equipment specialist, and a portion of the local expenditures to be incurred
in constructing the project.  The remaining costs would be met by Government
budget allocation.    All tendering for procurement of equipment and imported
materials would be on the basis of international comnetitive bidding. Con-
struction work would be by force account using the imported eauipment supple-
mented by equipment now available in thc Irr{gation Department.
iv.       The Irrigation Department of the Ministry of Land, Irrigation and
Power would be responsible for the design, construction and operation and
maintenance of the project facilities. The Agriculture Department. of the
Ministry of Food and Agriculture, would provide research, extension and im-
proved seeds. The Agrarian Services Department would insure supply of fertil-
izers, pesticides and weedicides. Credit would be supplied by the People's
Bank through cooperatives. To achieve the proposed rates of development, the
activities of these organizations would be coordinated through a cormi±ttee
composed of their senior representatives.



- ii -
v.        Project beneficiaries would pay operation and maintenance costs now
estimated at Rs 25 per acre per year thirough a charge to be collected by the
Government Agent for each District.
vi.       The project would contribute to Ceylon's balance of payments position
through annual savings in rice imports estimated at US$ 1.1 million equivalent
and increase the income of some 10,000 farm families. The rate of return on
the investment, on a conservative basis, would be 12%. The rate of return
would increase to 17% if family labor is excluded from cost of production.
vii.      Other Bank-Group financing extended to Ceylon for the development of
agriculture includes a credit of US$ 2.0 million equivalent, made in 1968, for
lift irrigation. The Mahaweli Ganga Stage I irrigation project, with an esti-
mated total cost of US$ 49 million equivalent, is under appraisal.
viii.     The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$ 2.5 million equiv-
alent provided assurances in para. 8.01 are obtained during negotiations. The
Borrower would be the Government of Ceylon.



CEYLON
DRAINAGE AND RECLAM ATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Ceylon has requested IDA financing in the amount
of US$ 2.5 million equivalent for a drainage and reclamation project of low
lying coastal marsh lands located in six sepi'Lrate areas along "he southwest
coast of Ceylon (see Map).  The objective is to improve irainuese conditions
and reclaim land for double cropping of paddy on 13,200 ac.  This land at
present suffers from inadequate drainage and periodic flooding and to a lainor
extent from saltwater intrusion. The project would be carried out over a 5-
year period. It is part of the Government's Drainage an!a Reclamation Program
included in the current Development Plan.
1.02      One of the main objectives c'f the Development Plan is the early
attainment of self sufficiency in food.  The Government hopes to achieve this
goal through expansion and rehabilitation of irrigation, 1/ by providing flood
protection and drainage facilities, reclamation of lands and measures to in-
crease yields.
1.03      The credit request was prepared by the Irrigation Department of the
Ministry of Land, Irrigation and Power following a visit to Ceylon, in Junef
July 1966, of an FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program mission which identified a num-
ber of projects. The Government prepared and submitted to the Association,
in May 1967, a feasibility report for the drainage and reclamation project,
which was one of those recommended by the FAO mission. An Appraisal mission
composed of Messrs. J. C. Douglass, H. T. Chang, L. T. Sonley (Bank) and
H. Boumendil (FAO) visited the project in September 1967 and recommended to
the Government that further studies were necessary before appraisal could be
completed. The Irrigation Department of the Ministry of Land, Irrigation and
Power made the additional studies. Technical adequacy of these studies was
reviewed by two consultants retained by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program,
Messrs. Oudshoorn and De Glopper who visited Ceylon in December 1968. Mr.
Douglass (Bank) was in Ceylon at the same time and participated in their re-
view. Mr. Chang (Bank) visited Ceylon in March 1969 to compvete the appraisal
of agricultural aspects.
1.o4      This report, prepared by I1essrs. Douglass, Myint and Chang, is based
on material and reports prepared by the Ministry of Land, Irrigatioa and Power
and the Ministry of Food and Agriculture of the Government of Ceylon and the
findings of the missions mentioned above.
1/ The Mahaweli Ganga Irrigation Project (Stage I), with an estimated cost
of US$ 49 million is now under appraisal. It proposes to develop agri-
cultural lands in the Dry Zone of Ceylon.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Ceylon has a population of 12 million growing at an annual rate of
2.2% (1968). The land area of 25,000 sq mi is divided into Wet and Dry Zones
two distinct areas based on differences in the amount and pattern of rain-
fall which is demarcated by the 75 in rainfall line.
2.02      The Wet Zone (in which the project is located) covers 30% of the
land area of Ceylon and is the country's major agricultural area - accounting
for 82% of the land under cultivation. Relative to the Dry Zone, there is
scarcity of land available for development of food production in this Zone.
Any major expansion of cultivated area and increasing agricultural production
within this Zone would only be possible through reclamation of lands at pres-
ent subject to floods and increasing yields of crops on lands now under culti-
vation.
2.03      Agriculture, with an average annual growth rate of 3.2% between 1961
and 1968 compared to a growth rate of 4.0% for the economy, is the largest
single sector of Ceylon's economy. It accounts for 36% of gross domestic pro-
duction, 90% of its foreign exchange earnings and employs more than 50% of its
labor force. In 1968, 45% of the total value of imports was expended on food
and, of this expenditure, rice accounted for 36%. Over the past 10 years,
Ceylon's annual imports of rice averaged about 500,000 m tons. During the
last 3 years, largely as a result of increasing local production, rice imports
have declined from 485,000 m tons in 1966 to 375,000 m tons in 1967 and 343,000
m tons in 1968.
2.04      The agricultural ecofiomy of Ceylon is divided between estate agri-
culture, producing plantation crops, mainly tea, rubber and coconuts for ex-
ports and peasant produced crops for domestic requirements. Estate agriculture
has dominated the economy. The value of exports has declined somewhat in
recent years - primarily due to falling prices. Tea accounts for about 62%
of the value of the country's agricultural exports, rubber 16% and coconuts
10%.
2.05      In recent years, the Government's agricultural policy has been ori-
ented towards increasing domestic agricultural production with a view to re-
ducing imports of rice in particular and subsidiary food crops. Considerable
success has been achieved in increasing rice production. The acreage planted
and yields over the period 1962 to 1965 were relatively constant but have in-
creased steadily since 1966; the area pl&ated in 1968 was 113% of the 1962
acreage and yields were 122%. There has also been a marked increase in the
production of subsidiary food crops.
2.o6      These increases in food production have been supported by the use of
production incentives. Key farm products in Ceylon, including rice, are mar-
keted under a guaranteed price scheme. At appropriate periods, the Government
announces the prices at which it stands ready to buy various crops through the
Department of Agrarian Services, but farmers also have full freedom to sell
their produce on the free market. The volume of paddy purchasing and rice



-3-
selling by private dealers has greatly expanded because of halving of the sub-
sidized rice ration in late 1966, increasing its price and creating competition
among dealers as well as between dealers and Government. With rice imports
restricted, the -free market price of paddy is equal to or sometimes higher
than the Government guaranteed price. In addition, inputs of fertilizers,
irrigation water, seeds and tractor services are subsidized.  Production cred-
its have been made available to farmers. Steps have been taken to have inputs
available in the farming areas at the right time. High yielding varieties
have been made available and an intensive effort has been made by all agencies
and the farmers to boost domestic production.
2.07      Existing agricultural production in the southwest coast of the Wet
Zone is seriously hampered by flood hazards with the result that ful2. doublo
cropping of paddy is difficult and even a single crop is occasionally, Jeopar-
dized by flood damages on lands with low elevations.  The development of these
lands for increased paddy production r"1uiires flood control and drainage facil-
ities.
2.08      The program to reach self sufficiency in foods places high priority
on increasing the production of rice on lands which at present suffer from
floods, inadequate drainage, and saltwater intrusion.  The proposed Drainage
and Reclamation project would support Ceylon's effort to increase its produc-
tion of rice.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A.  General
Lands
3.01      There are some 60,000 ac of low lying lands along the southwest coast
of Ceylon. The Irrigation Department has identified some 41,000 ac as suitable
for reclamation and has constructed pilot projects to demonstrate the practica-
bility of draining such lands. Some of these areas are now complete and others
are under construction. Progress on this work has been hampered by shortage of
construction equipment.  The Irrigation Department first presented a 10-year
program involving some 20 different schemes for which assistance in financing
was requested.  The present proposal includes the Government's highest priority
areas which could reasonably be completed in a period of 5 years.  Tlhe schemes
included in the project have been studied in sufficient detail to provide an
adequate basis for cost estimates and to enable their orderly development.
3.02      The proposed project vould serve a total of 13,200 ac located in six
non-contiguous land areas of the Wet Zone along the southwestern coastal belt
of Ceylon.
3.03      The project area is located in 5 districts (see Map) and includes
5,920 ac of lands, with elevations ranging from 2 to 5 ft above sea level that



- 4 -
would derive primary benefits and would be suitable for dependable double crop-
ping of paddy. The project works would be directed mainly towards this area.
However, 7,280 ac of lands, with elevations ranging from 1 to 2 ft above sea
level would derive benefits to a lesser degree due to their low elevation.
While double cropping would be practidal, there would be still a drainage de-
ficiency and some flood hazard.        i
3.04      Paddy is now grown on about 9,650 ac of the 13,200 in the project.
The remaining area is under native vegetation and swamp. Annex 1 shows the
areas presently in paddy, together with the area proposed to be cultivated
under paddy on the area in the project.
Climate
3 05      The climate is tropical.  Mean monthly temperatures range from 77 0F
to 860F. Prevailing winds are from the southwest during the period April
through September and the northeast from October to March. The southwest
coast of Ceylon receives rain in both monsoons and highest quantities are
normally recorded in April through June and again in September through
December. Some rain is normally received each month but the periods January,
February and August are normally drier. For the 20-year period 1948 to 1967,
the average annual precipitation varied from a low of 62 in at Chilaw to a
high of 114 in at Kalutara.
3.06      There is no major climatic constraint on growing paddy.  Review of
water requirements for paddy compared with recorded rainfall by 10-day periods
indicates for a 21-year period that the rainfall is generally adequate to meet
water requirements of paddy.
Soils
3.07      The soils in the flood plains, formed generally under fluctuating
floods and water logged conditions, vary from the alluvial soils on which
buffaloes can be worked to the soft boggy peat soils which have to be prepared
with hand tools. All different grades and types between these extremes occur.
Soils are generally rich in organic matter and nitrogen, low in available
phosphorous and potassium; and acidic in reaction. The acidity under field
paddy conditions, however, is not prohibitive to the establishment and growing
of rice. (See Annex 2 for more complete description of the soils).
3.o8      The "boggy" soils occur frequently in areas below 2 ft in elevation
but also to some extent above 2 ft. Because these soils in the low lying
areas remain moist all year around, there is no rapid or excessive oxidation
of the peat lTyer. There is no evidence of salinity except in small incidental
locations. The poor drainage and flooding conditions presently appear to be
a more important factor affecting paddy yields than is soil type.



-5-
Topography and Drainage
3.09      All land in the project area is low lying flat coastal swamps intri-
cately cut by ridges.  The ridges are occupied by village compounds, home or-
chards and coconut groves. The project land begins at the foot of the ridges
and extends towards the sea.
3.10      Existing internal drainage channels are seriously clogged by silta-
tion and luxurious weed growth.  The outfall of the rivers is elthtr narrovc'.
by sand deposits or completely blocked'by sandbars formed by wave action of
the sea during periods when stream flows in the rivers are inalequate to main-
tain a channel. These restrictions hold back water in the project area until
stream flows are great enough to sdour and break through the sandbars. Rock
outcrops in the stream channels form local barriers which obstruct flows at
peak discharge periods. Abutments of railroad or road bridges using these
rock outcrops as foundations cause a further obstruction. Bunds built in the
past to prevent river overflow into the fields are either too low or poorly
constructed to be effective.
B. Agricultural Aspects
Present Crop Production
3.11      The deficiencies of drainage and the extent of damage to crops by
flooding increase as land elevation decreases. Scattered paddies have long
been planted on lands above elevation 3 ft but it is only recently that lands
lower than that elevation have also been plarted. Much of the recent increase
can be attributed to incentives offered by the Government of higher support
prices, a free market for rice and greater availability of credit.
3.12      Farmers grow one crop of rice a year from March to September on land
below 2 ft elevation, using tall native 5-1/2 month varieties. Chance of
total crop failure due to flooding is estimated to be 4 out of 10 crops on
land between 1 and 2 ft in elevation where single cropping is practiced.  On
land below 1 ft the chance of failure is still higher. On lands lying at ele-
vations 2 to 3 ft native 4-1/2 month varieties are double cropped. The chance
of failure is also about 4 out of 10 crops because the double crop varieties
are more susceptible to flood damage. As a rale, farmers use no inputs except
labor and seeds under such high risks. On land above 3 ft elevation, fairly
reliable double cropping is possible at present. Farmers use local improved
varieties and, in recent years, some fertilizers. Counting yield per ac of a
failed crop as 0, a normal crop of the native 5-1/2 month varieties at 30 bu,
the native 4-1/2 month varieties at 35 bu, and improved varieties at 40 bu,
the weighted average yield per ac per year is estimated to be 18 bu on lands
below 2 ft above MSL, 42 bu on those from 2 to 3 ft above MSL, and 72 bu on
those above 3 ft MSL. A more detailed explanation of the yield estimates is
given in Annex 3.



-6
Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.13      Average size holdings of peasant farms in 1962 in the 5 districts
containing the project varied from 1.05 to 2.44 ac with 75% owner-operated and
25% tenant-operated under lease arrangements. The project areas approximate
the district patterns as to tenure and size.
3,14      In general, the farmers in the areas own their home in the village
compound, and work as day laborers in the nearby coconut or rubber plantations,
or fish.  This basic income is important because of the present risks associ-
ated with growing paddy. Despite the high risks due to flooding and poor
drainage, the farmers are willing to invest their labor in land preparation
and seed paddy on the chance of a crop. Since seeding takes 2 bu per ac, and
the farmers usually will resow once if the first seeding fails, the cash risk
is up to 4 bu of seed paddy. However, there are seldom any further inputs of
fertilizer or labor until harvest time. In contrast, farmers on the higher
land, where risks of crop failure are lower, do less plantation work and in-
vest mc,re inputs i.f labor, fertilizers and pesticides in paddy growing.
Population
3.15      The districts in which the project is located, have a density of
population of about 970 persons per sq mi, compared to Ceylon's average of
about 440 persons. The project area contains a number of heavily populated
towns. On the basis of the average size of paddy holding in the districts
and the total paddy area of the project, it is estimated that there are about
10,000 farm families in the project area, and about 60,000 total population.
Mrei  .and Transportation
3.16      Paddy would be purcha3ed by the Government under the Government sup-
port price scheme, although farmers could sell on the free market if they so
chose. Adequate milling and storage capacity exists to handle the increase
in production anticipated from the projecl;. There are 176 private and cooper-
ative mills who do milling for the Govern;aent as a part of the Guaranteed
Price Scheme, and 58C other private mills'in the 5 districts containing the
project lands which do direct buying of paddy and selling of rice.
3.17     Transportation facilities are generally good as this is the most
iensely settled area of Ceylon. The Ceylon railway serves the entire coastal
belt from Chilaw to Matara.  A surfaced highway follows the coast line.  Im-
Droved roads extend from the highwa.y to all the populated areas adjacent to
the highway. Colombo and Galle have port facilities to handle ocean going
traffic.
3upporting Services
3.18      A district Agricultural Extension Officer is in cnarge of extension
3.etivities for each of the 5 districts containing the pojebt.' He supervises
agricultural instructors, who in turn supervise the Extension Overseers. (See



- 7 -
Annex 4.)  Farmers are organized into Cultivation Committees representing
about 200 ac each. Such committees establish for their area produ'etion targets
and planting dates and define needs for inputs of fertilizers and herbicides.
The committees also define credit requirements.  Eac-, Extension Overseer would
work with an average of 4 committees, or roughly 1 ovrerseer to each 800 ac of
paddy.
3.19      The Extension Officers are bcLck.top,ed and givcu t-rai.ning courses by
the Bombuvela Rice Research Station and the P-f-ade:'-ya Cen,tral Agricultural
Research Station.
3.20      Foundation seeds of the new rice varieties would be provided by the
Research Stations and multiplied in the districts for Cupply to farmers a. a
cost of Rs 18 'per bu, as against common rice seeds at hs 16. The Department
of Agrarian Services supplies fertilizers t,> q.ll paddy growers in Ceylon at a
50% subsidy.  The same agency distributes weedicides and nesticides at cost.
The Department operates a network of fertiliz'ir warehouscs throughout the
nation.  At present, there are in the 5 Districts conccrned a total of 20 ware-
houses belonging to the Department and the Fertilizer :orporatiorn with a total
capacity of 30,700 m tons. The warehouses dispatch the inputs to 531 stores
in the 5 Districts operated by the Multi-purpose Cooperatives, where the farm-
ers take delivery. The availability of inputs is not expected to be a problem.
3.21      Short term production credit for the paddy grower is supplied by the
People's Bank through the Multi-purpose Cooperatives. The credit needs of in-
dividual farmers are established in the seasoaal production plans formulated
by the Cultivation Committees. The People's Bank 'Lends to the Cooperatives at
7% per annum and the latter relend to farmers at 9-11% per annum. The supply
of credit is adequate.
IV.  THE PR0J:-CT
A. Descrintion
4.01      the project is the reclamation by drainage and flood control of 6
separate, physically independent, land units. The project would be part of
an ongoing program conducted by the Government to increase paddy production
by drainage and flood control so low lying areas along the coast, which now
produce low yielding native varieties of paddy due to inadequate drainage and
flooding, can be made suitable for dependable double cronping of improved
varieties of paddy. The project would involve cleaning e-nd enlarging exist-
ing drains, construction of new drains, improving drain outlets to the sea,
construction of levees and regulator structures, construction of office and
operating facilities and access roads. It would also include a salinity mon-
itoring program. Development would be conplcted in 5 years. Project works
would be designed primarily to drain areas above elevation ) ft.  No works are
provided specifically for lands below t.hnt elevation but tbhy will benefit
materially from the improved drainage and floed conditions. The six areas are
shown on the map and include Irenavila, Bolgoda, Bentota Right bank. Dedduwa-
Rentotawilla, Madampe and Kirolakele.



-8-
B. Proposed Works
Drains
4.02      The existing open channel drainage system (some of which dates back
to the Dutch period of 1815) has been neglected for many years. All the drains
need cleaning and in most cases enlargement to effectively remove surplus rain-
fall and flood waters from upstream areas. New drains would be constructed to
extend and make effective drainage over the entire project area. Regulators
with gates would be constructed at appropriate places so salt-water may be
excluded at high tide conditions, and to control discharge of the drains.
Jrainage Outlets
4.03      Wave action and littoral drift form a continuous sand bar along the
3outhwest coast.  Under low flow conditions in the streams, the sand bar forms
across the mouth of the stream to an elevation of about 5 ft above sea level,
,hich persists until stream discharge becomes great enough to overtop the
3and bar and erode a channel through the bar to sea level. Appropriately con-
3tructed groynes of heavy rock materia. in the sea have been found effective
in altering the wave pattern to allow a sea level outlet to remain open at the
mouth of the stream. Two such groynes would be part of the project. Minor
?eriodic dredging would be required to maintain the open channel.
,4.o4     Rock outcrops occur in some of the stream channels near the sea and
3erve to restrict the discharge capacity of the channel under flood conditions.
.3y removing these constrictions, the water surface in the stream through the
roject areas would be lowered and the overflow of flood waters on to the
Lands reduced. Necessary channel improvements of this nature would be part
of' the project.
Flood Control and Supporting Works
4t05      Levees to an elevation of 3.5 ft with gate structures at drainage
~hannels would be constructed along the stream channels and on the periphery
of lagoons to permit isolation of tracts and control of water levels within
i;racts. They will also serve to protect the lands from inundation by high
1;ides and minor floods. In major floods, the levees would be overtopped with
resuiltant partial damage to crops from flooding. The damage will depend on
depth and duration of inundation. Such floods would occur on average once in
a 10-year period.  This is considered a reasonable risk.  To provide a greater
degree of protection would involve steeply rising costs. Access roads would
lte constructed or improved as necessary to reach structure sites. Temporary
liousing facilities would be constructed for guards and stores during construc-
;ion. On some of the larger areas, permanent housing and offices would be
i)rovided for operation and maintenance personnel.
'J . o6   The project would also include a water sampling program to monitor
3alinity at selective points in the streams and lagoons. With improved outlet



conditions to the sea, salinity intrusion will be a greater i.azard.  Observa-
tions would allow early detection of increased salinit-;r e        ole  SO corrective
action can be taken before a serious problem develops.
4.07      Construction of the above works would improve growing conaitions -'or
paddy and, for areas lying above elevation 2 ft, would allow dependable double
season cropping except for maJor floo4s uhich might inundste Daddy fields for
about 5 da~rs cnce in 10 rears.  Tk1us onc crop in 20 might ex-er;ence some dam-
age.  Areas be'ween elevation +1 and 2,ft wo`ld. not be dr^ained as ____ste'y
as the higher arcas and -ould have somewhat poorer groving or cultivation con-
ditions. This in reflected in the yield projections.
4.o8      At the request of the Government, Engineering Ccnsultantz Incorpor-
ated (USA) prepared a report concerning flood problems on three basins along
the southwest coast.  The concent of that r-port was to provide essentialy
complete flood protection by storage and - series of high levees along the
stream chalnels. Such levees could induce much higher peak flovs downstream
than now occur.  Although the likelihood of such development tlak_ng place is
remote, an assurance was obtained from the Government durin-g negotiations
that no major works which would har^ an adverse effect on areas included in
the project would be constructed upstream without agreement o-f the Association.
Construction Equipment
4.09      One of the major constraints which hinders the Government from com-
pleting the Drainage and Reclamation project with 'ts own resources is lack
of foreign exchange with which to purchase the necessary construction and
dredging equipment to allow the work to be performed expeditiously. Annex 5
(page 2) shows a list of equipment to be purchased as a part of t!Ae proJect.
This list is considered illustrative of type and cost. To insure that the
equipment best adapted to accomplish the project works is procured, the Uov-
ernment would retain an erpatriate equipment specialist to come to Ceyl;..,
review construction conditions in the project area and make recommendations
on type of equipment which would best fit the local situ&tion. He would also
be asked to advise on specification provisions which would insure that the
desired type of equipment is obtained. Thi.o is perticularly pertinent to
equipment for dredging in the existing drainage ebannels. Thn term cf original
employment would be about 1 month althouh, his contract wouldJ require a return
trip to advise on use of equipment.  During negotiationz. assurances were
obtained from thc Government that it wou2.d r-ŽtaL: &n expert on terms and con-
ditions acceptable to the Association nricr to prescnttio-:. of the credit to
the Board.
4.10      There is a shortage of heavy construeic--    Dquir,-nt in the Ir,-igation
Department.  As a result there J.. conside-rable cres.5ure to divs-rw equipment to
other high priorityr proWects.  An -.ssurlz-ce  *as .tained from the Government
during negotiations that the equipment purchased 1nder thn cr--dit vc>uld be
retained for use on the project as ncedei< t. ensur^- nromit nd _  ficnent
execution of the project works, and that equipment ..c              - ar- ould be m&.e
available for operation and maintenanec m-'r-os es



- 10 -
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
Status of Engineering
4.11      The Bentota Right Bank and Madu Ganga schemes were selected by the
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program consultants for detailed study of the engineering
elements. From that revieer, it was concluded that the design standards and
criteria applied by the Irrigation Department were sound. Preliminary designs
for each of the drainage units in the project are adequate for determining
quantities of work to be done and preparation of cost estimates. Final designs
for each unit will be prepared by the Irrigation Department prior to initiating
construction.
Cost Estimates
4.12      Total cost of the project is estimated to be Rs 24.4 million or
US$ 4.1 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component is approximately
40% of the total. The foreign excharge component is made up of the equipment
and materials shown in Annex 5. Any remaining life of the equipment after
the construction period will be available for operation and maintenance of
the project.
4.13      Cost estimates for the project are based on quantities of work as
indicated by preliminary designs and on unit prices based on costs incurred
on similar works now in progress or completed. Contingencies of 20% have
been included to cover cost and quantity changes, price increases and unfore-
seen items. The cost estimates, given in more detail in Annex 5, are summar-
ized below:
COST ESTIMATES
Rs million equivalent    US$ million equivalent
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Item                                    Exchange                  Exchange
Improvement of drain outfalls   2.18       2.71    4.89    0.37      0.45    0.82
(Groynes and Rock Removal)
Improvement of Drains            3.43      3.36    6.79    0.58       0.56    1.14
Levees and Regulators            2.31      1.84    4.15    0.39       0.31    0.70
Access Roads                      0.33     0.20    0.53    0.06       0.03    0.09
Land Acquisition                 0.74       -       0.74    0.12       -      0.12
Construction Facilities and      1.16      0.24    1.40    0.19       0.04    0.23
Miscellaneous
Sub-Total                     10.15      8.35   18.50    1.71      1.39    3.10
Engineering, Overhead and
Consultants                    1.74      0.06    1.80    0.29       0.01    0.30
Contingencies                    2.40      1.70    4.10    0.41       0.29    0.70
Total                         14.29    10.11   24.40    2.41        1.69    4.10



- 11 -
Financing
4.14      The amount of the proposed IDA credit would be US$ 2.5 million
(RS 14.9 million) equivalent which covers about 60% of the total cost. The
borrower would be the Government of Ceylon.  The proposed credit would cover
the estimated US$ 1.7 million (Rs 10 mlllion) equivalent foreign exchange cost
of imported equipm:ent, spare parts and materials required for the project and
consulting services. In addition, the credit would assist in financing part
of the local expenditures incurred during the 5-year construction period. The
local currency financing is justified on country economic grounds. Government
allocations would provide the balance of the project cost, some US$ 1.6 million
equivalent, The approximate expenditure schedule, including disbursement of
the proposed IDA credit, would be as follows:
Year:   1     2     3     4      5     Total
- - - US$ million equivalent - - - -
Government Contribution          0.30  0.40  0.40  0.40  0.10    1.60
IDA credit                       0.70  1.00  0.30  0.30  0.20    2.50
Total:                     1.00  1.40  0.70  0.70  0.30    4.10
Procurement
4.15      The scope of the civil works under the project is too small to at-
tract foreign contractors. The construction work would be carried out by
force account or local contract by the Irrigation Department of the Ministry
of Land, Irrigation and Power. All equipment and materials for the project
would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding, except
for a small amount of locally produced items such as coconut logs for use in
constructing levees.
Disbursement
4.16      About US$ 1.7 million equivalent of the proposed credit would cover
the CIF cost of imported equipment, spare parts and materials. The remaining
amount of the credit would be disbursed as a percentage of civil works expen-
ditures for the flood control drainage and reclamation works, on the basis of
certification by the Irrigation Department.
Accounts and Auditing
4.17      The Irrigation Department, like all other Departments of the Ceylon
Government, is subject to an independent annual, external audit by the Govern-
ment's Auditor-General. Although auditing procedures appear satisfactory,
assurances were obtained that the Government would:
(i) establish and maintain separate project accounts;



- 12 -
(ii) have these accounts audited by an auditor acceptable to
the Association; and
(iii) submit copies of each audit report to the Association
within 4 months of completion of each financial year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Designation of Responsibility
Construction
5.01      The Irrigation Department, an agency within the Ministry of Land,
Irrigation and Power, would be responsible for the planning, design and con-
struction of the flood control, drainage and reclamation facilities of the
project. Construction work would be handled as provided in para. 4.15.
5.02      The Irrigation Department is staffed with experienced personnel,
has had previous experience with similar works and would be competent to imple-
ment the works included in the project. Preparation of design and overall
supervision of works would be carried out by its Headquarters staff at Colombo.
Field supervision would be carried out by the Divisional Engineer within whose
jurisdiction the specific work unit is located. He would station a Resident
Engineer to execute the work in the field.
Agriculture Deavelopment
5.03      The Agriculture Department, an agency of the Ministry of Food and
Agriculture, wjould provide Research and Extension Services to ensure success-
ful paddy cultivation within the project area by organizing farmers into about
70 Cultivation Committees and providing "Production Overseers" who would each
supervise abo.t 860 ac of paddy land cultivation.  There would be a total of
6 Agricultural Instructors, and at least 16 Extension Overseers located within
the project area. Thle Department will also be responsible for supply of im-
prcved seeds.
5.o4      The Agrarian Services Department would, with assistance from the
members of the Cooperative Department, ensure purchase of paddy output of the
project area, and make provision for supply of fertilizers, pesticides, weedi-
cides and other inputs and cooperate with the Agricultural Department in super-
vising the work of "Cultivation Committees." The People's Bank would supply
production credit to farmers through their cooperatives.
5.C5      Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiation
that a special Agricultural Development Program for the Project Area with an-
nual targets would be formulated and implemented by the Ministry of Food and
Agriculture, incorporating, with full staff and budgetary support from the



- 13 -
Government, the activities mentioned in paras. 5.03 and 5.04. This should in-
sure production increases as construction brings subsequ.ent portions of the
Project Area under protection each year, with full development being reached
shortly after the completion of construction.
Coordinating Machinery
5.o6      In order to ensure the necessary degree of coordination between
Departments under the Ministry of Land, Irrigation and Power and the Ministry
of Food and Agriculture, particularly between the Irrigation, Agriculture, and
Agrarian Services Departments, the Government intends to establish a coordi-
nating committee consisting of senior level representatives of these Depart-
ments and the Commissioner of Cooperatives. The Committee would be concerned
with the project areas and similar areas on the southwest coast. It would
convene at the request of any member to discu,.ss problems that may arise during
implementation and meet periodically to .eview progress, and coordinate the
construction and agricultural development. During negotiations an assurance
was obtained from the Government that such a committee would be established
within 6 months of the date credit becomes effective.
Operation and Maintenance
5.07      After construc-ion has been completed, operation and maintenance of
the project works would be carried out by the Irrigation Department. The De-
partment has in recent years paid more attention to the problems of the south-
west coast. Most of the existing drainage facilities were originally con-
structed many years ago and were not considered as part of the Irrigation
Department's normal maintenance program. However, recently the Department
has taken on this responsibility and has embarked on a limited drain mainte-
nance program pending the accomplishment of work as outlined for this project.
The Department is capable of adequately maintaining the facilities. The De-
partment should also look into the merits of attempting control of water weeds
by use of herbicides.
5.08      Costs of operation and maintenance, estimated at Rs 25 per ac per
year for benefitted area, are based on actual expenditures experienced on sim-
ilar works in Ceylon. The estimates include charges for wages and salaries,
fuel and lubricants, materials and replacements of parts, together with charges
for administration that would be incurred by the Irrigation Department.
B. Recovery of Costs
5.09      Legal provision exists for collection, from beneficiaries, of all
costs of operating and maintaining the project works and for recovery of in-
vestment costs. Amendment Act No. 48 of 1968 (to the Irrigation Ordinance of
1946), which came into effect on January 18, 1969, provides the legislative
basis for such collection. The annual cost of operating and maintaining the
project works at full development is estimated at Rs 330,000 (US$ 55,000 equiv-
alent). This would be recovered from farmers benefitting from the works as



- 14 -
an improvement and drainage charge and would be collected through the existing
organization of the Government Agent for each District. Future average annual
charges to recover operation and maintenance costs in the project area would
amount to Rs 25 (us$ 4 .20 equivalent) per cultivated ac, or Rs 12.50 (US$ 2.10
equivalent) per cropped ac. Assurance was obtained from the Government during
negotiations that it would levy and collect a service charge from project
beneficiaries to cover at least annual operation and maintenance costs of the
project pending conclusions of the study described below.
5.10      Historically, the Government has assessed only a nominal charge on
irrigation projects to recoup operation and maintenance costs. No effort has
been made to recoup investment costs and these have been traditionally borne
by the Government. All of the lands in the Drainage Reclamation Project would
not benefit equally.  A otudy should be made to review benefits to and payment
capacity of farmers with a view to assessing charges which would return to the
Government an appropriate share of capital costs (depending on degree bene-
fitted) as well as operation and maintenance costs from beneficiaries. An
assurance that the Government would make such a study to be applicable to the
project area and similar areas on the southwest coast was obtained during
negotiations. The study should be completed by the end of December 1972 and
the Association should be given an opportunity to comment on the conclusions
reached and recommendations made on the level of charges.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
A. Production
6.ol      Annex 6 gives details on the increases in acreage, yields and pro-
duction attributable to the project. These are summarized as follows:
Future Conditions
Without Project With Project Increment
Cropped Acres                 14,850           26,400        11,550
Rice production in m tons      5,600           16,500        10,900
The without project projection assumes all yield increases which could occur
without the project. The increment results from the better cultivation condi-
tions for paddy, the reduced crop failure due to flooding, the opportunity
afforded to use improved varieties and the uOe of complementary inputs which
would become economic as a result of the project.
B. Market Prospects
6.02      The rice output of the project area would replace imports.  Market
prospects for the incree.sed rice production resulting from the project appear



- 15 -
promising.  Ceylon's domestic requirement for rice in 1968 was estimated at
1.2 million tons. About 1/3 of this requirement was met through imports. By
1975, when the project works are, completed, the country's annual rice require-
ment is projected to rise to about 1.5 million tons. The present momentum in
rice production (see -?ara. 2.05i' anI the relatively low level of current yields,
as compared to what is possible with existing technology, suggest that Ceylon
may approach self-sufficiency in rice. With the combined impact on rice pro-
duction of technical innovation, economic innentivp  and the increase in pxdy
area by new projects such as Mahaweli Ganga, it should be possible for Ceylon
to substantially reduce, if not eliminate, its, need for rice imports by about
1975.  The increased outrut of 10,900 tons of rice from this project would be
easily absorbed.
C. Prices
6.03      For valuation of the rice output of the project, a price of US$ 100
(equivalent to Rs 923 - when the dollar is converted at the higher effective
exchange rate 1/ now prevailing in Ceylon) peJ m ton has been used in this
report. This would be equivalent to pricing a bushel of paddy at Rs 12.8 in-
stead of the official price of Rs 14 paid under the Government Guaranteed
Price Scheme. Current world export prices range from about US$ 150 for Burmese
rice (SMS 42% broken FOB Rangoon) to US$ 180 per m ton of Thai rice (5% broken
FOB Bangkok). A reasonable long-term world average price, in terms of Burmese
42% (broken) rice, would be about US$ 95 to 100 per m ton FOB Rangoon. The
valuation of the project's output of milled rice at US$ 100 m ton is based on
the projections for Burmese rice after adjustment for quality, transportation
and other charges (see Annex 7). This price which has been used in this re-
port, is about 9% below the prevailing official price.
6.o4      Given the acreage, yield and price assumptions cited above, the
annual gross production value of the project area is expected to increase from
the present level of Rs 5.2 million (US$ 0.6 million equivalent) to Rs 15.2
million (US$ 1.6 million equivalent) at full development, which should be
attained within 8 years of the start of the project.
D. Farm Incomes 2/
6.05      The potential benefits obtainable under the project, at full devel-
opment would provide considerable incentive for farmers to participate in it.
1/   Currently two effective exchange rates exist in Ceylon:  the "official"
exchange rate of US$ 1 = Rs 5.95 plus the foreign exchange entitlement
certificate premium of 55% which gives an effective exchange rate of
Rs 9.23 = US$ 1. The latter rate has been used as an exchange rate and
already covers about 50% of Ceylon's payment transactions.
2/   Assumes that prices received by farmers will approximate world prices.



- 16 _
The projected net income (after charges) from cultivating a 1 ac holding would
be expected, depending on the elevation of the land, to rise as follows:
AVERAGE ANNUAL FARM INCOME
PER CULTIVATED ACRE OF PADDY FOR THE "WITH" AND "WITHOUT"
PROJECT CASE
Without Project             With Project
Above  Between  Between   Above  Between  Between
Land Elevation                 3'   2' to 3' 1' to 2'    3'   2' to 3' 1' to 2'
- Rupees - - - - - - - - - - -
Gross Production Value         920     540       230    1,840   1,840       540
Production Cost *              664     414       189      940     940       378
Net Income Before Project
Charges                      256     126        41      900     900       162
Less:
Drainage Charges           -       -         -        25      25        25
Cult ivation Committee
Dues                      6       6         6        6       6         6
Net Income per Cultivated
Acre After Charges           250     120        35      869     869       131
* Charges for family labor included.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The major quantifiable benefit to be derived from the project would
be the increase of rice production and farm incomes affecting about 10,000
farm families. Those benefits would result from provision of drainage and
other facilities enabling farmers within the project area to increase both
their cropped acreage and per acre yields of paddy (rice). The additional
output resulting from the project would consist of 10,900 m tons of milled
rice, which would be equivalent to about 3% of Ceylon's total rice imports in
1968. The project would make a contri1ution towards closing Ceylon's rice
deficit and help improve the balance o' payments position through annual sav-
ings in rice imports estimated at abou-; Rs 10.0 million (US$ 1.1 million equiv-
alent).
7.02      At full development, the annual gross value of rice production from
the project area is expected to reach about Rs 15.2 million (US$ 1.6 million
equivalent), nearly triple the present level. After deducting production costs,
the net value of agricultural production would reach Rs 6.3 million (US$ 0.7
million equivalent). Of this, the incremental net value of production would
be Rs 5.0 million (US$ 0.54 million equivalent). This net production would
represent a direct benefit to the economy of about Rs 4.7 million (US$ 0.5
million equivalent) after deducting project operation and maintenance costs,



- 17 -
7.03      In calculating the project's rate of return to the economy, the fol-
lowing aLssumptions were used:
(i)  a useful life of the project of 50 years;
(ii) a price equivalent to US$ 100 per m ton is used for
valuation of rice output of the project;
(iii) an effective exchange rate of Rs 9.23 = US$ 1 (see
para. 6.03 and Annex 5, page 3);
(iv) cost of family labor equivalent to prevailing wage rates.
Using these assumptions, the rate of return to the economy would be about 12%.
It if is assumed that there is no alternative employment opportunity for family
labor, the rate of return would increas) to 17%.  At the upper range of pro-
jected rice prices of US$ 110 per m ton (approximately equal to prevailing
Government purchase price when converted at higher effective exchange rate)
the rate of return to the economy woul1  be about 15% with family labor costed
and 19% if excluded.  The project is economically justified both in terms of
the return to the economy and its contribution to foreign exchange savings.
VIII. RECOMMtENDATIONS
8.01      During credit negotiations assurances were obtained that the
Government would:
(i) not construct works upstream of project without
agreement of the Association (para. 4.08);
(ii) retain an equipment consultant (para. 4.09);
(iii) prepare an agricultural development program
(para. 5.05);
(iv) establish a coordinating committee (para. 5.o6);
(v) levy and collect a service charge to cover
operation and maintenance costs (para. 5.09);
(vi) make a study of appropriate charges to
beneficiaries (para. 5.10).
8.02      A condition of presentation of the loan would be employment of the
equipment specialist (para. 4.09).
8.03      With the indicated assurances now given the proposed project con-
stitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$ 2.5 million.  The Borrower
would be the Government of Ceylon.
SEPTEMBER 17, 1969






ANNEX 1
CEYLONI
rFAINAGE AID RECILAMLTION PROJECT
Present and Proposed Land Use ol Project Area
A. Present area under paddy in project area:
Lands above       Lands between
Scheme                 2 feet elevation  1 & 2 feet .levation  Totall'
Bentota Right Bank              675                   575        1,250
Dedduwa - Rentotuwrila          475                   300          775
Bolgoda                       2,100                 1,700        39800
Madampe                       1,390                   800        2,190
Kiralakele                      246                 1,000        l,2h6
Iranavila                       317                    70          387
TOTAL                      y5203                  4,445        9,648
1/  There is some paddy grown on even lower lying lands.
B.  Proposed Area under paddy in Project Area at full development:
Lands above       Lands between
Scheme                 2 foot elevation  1 & 2 feet elevation  Total
Bentota Right Bank            1,010                   950        1,960
Dedduwa - Rentotuwila           607                   712        1,319
Bolgoda                       2,250                 2,340        4,590
Hiadampe                      1,490                 1,314        2,8o4
Kiralakele                      246                 1,893        2,139
Iranavila                       317                    70          387
TOTAL                       5, 9920               7,279      13,199






ANNEX 2
Page 1
CEYLON - DRAINAGE AND RECLAMATION
Soils
Soil Surveys
1.        The following soil surveys have been made:
(a) An "All Island Rice Soil Fertility Survey" conducted by
the Department of Agriculture from 1962 to 1964 based on
a laboratory analysis of 2715 samples taken from the top
9 inches of rice soils in d-fferent Districts of Ceylon.
(b) A detailed reconnaissance soil survey conducted by the
Land Use Division, Irrigation Department in 1968, in con-
nection with a Three Basin Project Feasibility Report pre-
pared by the consultant, ECI of USA. The three basins
are those of the Kalu Canga which runs through the Kalutara
District, Gin Ganga through the Galle District and Nilwala
Ganga through the Matara District. Areas around the estu-
aries of all the three rivers contairn lands similar to
those of the project schemes. The Kirolakele scheme is
directly included in the area covered by the Nilwala Ganga
basin survey.
(c) Semi-detailed soil survey of the Madu Ganga Marsh land was
completed by the same Division recently but maps and reports
are not yet prepared; and the survey of the Bentota Ganga
is underway. The latter will include the Bentota R.B. Scheme.
Major Soil Types
2.        Three main types of soils are identified by the survey (b) above;
namely, the mineral soils, the bog soils and the half-bog soils. The mineral
soils can be further subdivided into humic gley soils and mixed alluvial
soils. The humic gley soils are generally found along the drainage ways at
the bottom of narrower valleys between higher ridges. The mixed alluvial
soils are mostly located on higher land along the banks of the rivers, while
the half-bog and bog soils are on low lands farther away from the river
courses. In general, the mineral soils prevail on land above elevation 2 ft,
depending on local topographic and physical conditions.
3.        The classification gives only broad nature of the different soil
groups. In fact, these soils are extremely diversified within each group, as
a result of their comp'lex history of development. The mineral soils vary in
texture from loamy sand, sandy clay, silty clay and clay, and variations take
place at all horizons. The boggy soils often have non-uniform profiles of
alternate layers of mineral soils, peat or muck and impervious kaolinite.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
The mineral layer may vary in texture as the mineral soils themselves do. It
is mixed with varying amount of organic matter. The texture of the peat/muck
layers varies from coarse to fine, depending on material from which they were
formed. The thickness of the mineral and peaty layers also varies from pro-
file to profile. Such wide variance within each soil type makes the differ-
ences between types in many soil characteristics less pronounced than one
would expect.
4.        For instance, analytical data of 139 samples of top soils taken in
the Three Basin Feasibility Study show that the pH of the saturated paste of
the samples of all four types of soils mentioned above, range from below 4 to
above 6.
5.        The soils are generally rich in nitrogen initially because of the
nigh organic matter content, but are low in P because of the high acidity and
low in K because of strong leaching. However, there is no significant differ-
ence in the range of available P and K content among the 4 types of soils.
Furthermore, because of the low elevation and high ground water level, differ-
ences in the texture of the subsoil has no bearing on "internal drainage"
which is an important factor for soils of the higher lands. It is therefore,
ioubtful whether detailed soil survey giving finer demarkations of the soil
types would be of any more practical value for determining specific measures
:o be taken for rice culture on different soils.
!'ractical Considerations
,3.      Fortunately, the wide variations in soils which do occur are not
important, from a practical point of view, for the following reasons:
(a) The native paddy varieties are derived from perhaps centuries
of natural selection to survive the adverse local conditions.
Even after the completion of the project, native varieties
will still have to be used for land below elevation 2 ft where
the boggy soils prevail. No increase in use of inputs is pro-
jected. It remains a matter of surviving the floods and living
with a low yield potential. Under such conditions, the effect
of the differences in soils is masked.
(b) The new BW 1/ series of improved paddy varieties are developed
from the bog soil plots of the research station. Their adapt-
ability to boggy soils will help to minimize the effect of
soil differences on crop yields on land above elevation 2 ft.
(c) When flooded, the pH of all the soils is expected to increase
somewhat. A greaLt majority of the soils in the project area,
regardless of soil types, are expected to have pH above 5 under
field condition when paddy is being grown.
'I   Named from Bombuwela Research Station.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(d) The high groundwater level keeps land below elevation 2 ft
moist the year round. Excessive oxidation of the peat layer
therefore will not occur on such land where the boggy soils
prevail.
(e) Saline soils and cat clays have not been found so far in the
soil surveys, except in incidental spots, perhaps as a result
of tremendous amounts cf leaching b'y rain and flood evcry
season.
7.        The significant difference of the soils to farmers is that the min-
eral soils can be worked with water buffalo and later on perhaps with small
power tillers; while the boggy soils can only be worked with man labor and
hand tools.  Such differences are reflected in the computation of labor re-
quirements.
8.        Because of the complexity of the soil characteristics mentioned
above, farmers on land above elevation 2 ft will need intensive guidance
from the extension service in the use of fertilizers in order to obtain maxi-
mum yields at full development. In minor areas with strong acidity, some
liming will be necessary. A series of fertilizer experiments will need to be
conducted on different soils as soon as portions of the project schemes are
protected from flood, so as to provide the needed information.
9.        On land above elevation 2 ft, mineral soils are expected to give
better yields than boggy soils when drainage is improved, because of better
chance of lowering acidity. This difference may become more significant when
varieties specific to low land mineral soils are developed in the future.
Some oxidation of the boggy soils will occur and may result in formation of
local depressions. When this occurs, drainage will have to be provided to
lead water to lower land. This disadvantage, however, may be offset by the
fact that the soil will become less boggy, and after an initial period, the
acidity may be lowered.






ANNEX 3
Page 1
CEYLO'N
DRAINAGE AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Factors Affecting Rice Yield
1.        The present and future rice yields in the project area are effected
by the interplay of four factors: the land elevation; the frequency, timing,
and depth of damaging floods; the choice of varieties that can escape or tol-
erate the flood; and whether double or single crop can be adopted. Soil char-
acteristics and use of inputs play only secondary roles at present, but will
increase in importance after the project.
Present Conditions
2.        The peak floods occur in May during the Yala 1/ season and October
in the Maha season. Depth of floods is greater and duration longer on land
of lower elevations. Chance of total crop failure is therefore greater on
lower land. The higher land escapes minor floods.
3.        January through March are the driest months of the year.  Another
drier period is August. During these months, surface of land above elevation
0.5 ft is usually free of water to permit sowing.
4.        After the crop is established, it is threatened by flood at all
times. The first two weeks after germination is most critical. A minor flood
would submerge the young seedlings. A six-day submergence would result in
total kill of even the native varieties. When the plants have reached the
full tillering stage (about 50 days after sowing for 4-1/2 month varieties),
the improved varieties can stand four to five days of submergence, the local
four and one-half month varieties can stand up to seven days, while the local
five and one-half month varieties (particularly Deweredirri) can stand up to
10 days. Moreover, plant height at full growth is approximately as follows:
IR8 - 2-1/2 ft;  H8, 3 ft; H4, 4 ft; the native 4-1/2 month varieties, 4-1/2
to 5 ft; and the native 5-1/2 month varieties, 5 to 6 ft. The relative
heights of these variety groups at younger stages are proportionate. The
chance of being totally submerged is therefore less for the native varieties
than the improved varieties.
Farmers' Adaptation to Land Elevations
5.        With the above-mentioned background, farmers do the following to
cope with the land they have:
1/   Maha is season of northeast monsoon, October to March.
2/   Yala is season of southwest monsoon, April to September.



ANNE( 3
Page 2
Land 0 to 1 ft above MSL. In years with a wet March, the land is given
up.  In years with a dry March, farmers who choose to grow rice manually 8COOp
out free surface water and keep it free for two weeks to give the seedlings a
chance to get established.  The native 5-1/2 month varieties are used, which
reach two feet in height by May and are harvested in September, Just before
the Maha flood. The greatest threat is submergence in April when the plants
are young. Chance of total failure is large.
Land 1 to 2 ft above MSL. Sowing and germination usually presents no
problem for both Maha and Yala. Most farmers grow only one crop a year and
still use the 5-1/2 month varieties. Chance of crop failure is estimated to
be 4 out of 10.  Since such varieties yleld normally only 30 bu, the
average yearly yield is only 18 bu      per ac (30 x 0.6).  This is, however,
the beginning of a somewhat stable cultivation in the project area at present.
Land 2 to 3 ft above MSL. Sowing and crop establishment are safe. Some
farmers continue to grow the local 5-1/2 month varieties, and obtain a fairly
reliable crop of 30 bu      per ac.  Other farmers venture into growing two
crops of the native 4-1/2 month varieties with chances of about 4 crop fail-
ures out of 10.  The average yearly yield is 42 bu       per ac ((35 bu Maha
+ 35 bu Yala) x 0.6) which is better than the 30 bu    a year from a single
crop of 5-1/2 month variety. The risk is, however, greater.
Land above 3 ft + MSL. The average yield per ac per crop is 36 bu
or 72 bu annually.
Other Employment Opportunities
6.        Farmers in the area work as day laborers in the nearby coconut or
rubber plantations or do fishing, which gives them a basic income other than
that from the paddy field. They therefore are willing to put in their own
labor for land preparation and up to 4 bu       of seed paddy (each sowing re-
quit'es two bushels, if the seedling fails, usually it is resown once). For
the rest of the rice season, no other input is applied until harvest. For
farmers on higher land, where there is more work to do in the paddy field,
they do less work in the plantal.ions.
Future Improvement After Project Completion
7.        The project is designed to protect the land above elevation 2 ft so
it would be damaged by flood only once in 10 years or one crop of 20. The
flood hazard in terms of duration and depth to the land below 2 ft can also
be expected to be reduced to some extent. The Agricultural Department has
already put new varieties with higher yields into extension, which are proven
to be equally adaptable to mineral and bog soils. The Bw 1/ series are devel-
oped on bog soil plots of thy Bombuwela Rice Research Station.
8.        The yield estimates for present and future of the project area are
givep an follovs:
1/   Named from the Bombuwela Research Station.



ANNEX I
Page 3
Table 1
Basic Yields under normal conditions
Yield per crop
Rice                                     Single     Present         Future
Variety                       Growing   or Double            Mineral Half Bog Bog
Group        Varieties        Period      CropSoil                     Soil   Soil
(month)                 bu    - - - - bu -    - -
A      Native              5 - 5½      Single       30       30       30     30
B      Native              4 - 4½    Double         35      35        35     35
C      Improved (H4, H8)  4 - 4½    Double          40      70        65     60
D      Newly improved      4 - 4½    Double         -       80        75     70
Table 2
Estimate of the Present Yield in ProJect Area
Variety                         Yield per Acre per year (bushel)
Land           Group         Chance of       Mineral    Half Bog          Bog
Elevation      Used       Crop Failure        Soil         Soil           Soil
(ft)
Above 3          C         (double crop)   40 + 40 - 80  40 + 40 - 80  40 + 40 - 80
1 of 10      80x 0.9 - 72  80x 0.9 = 72  80x 0.9 - L2
2 to 3           B         (double crop)   35 + 35 = 70  35 + 35 - 70  35 + 35 - 70
4 of 10      70x 0.6 = 42  70x 0.6= 142  70x o.6 = 42
1 to 2           A         (single crop)   30x 0.6 = 18  30x 0.6 = 18  30x 0.6 - 18
h of 10-am
On lands below elevation 1+ (ft) chance of failure is nearly 10 out of 10.






Annex 3
Page -4
Table 3
Estinate of Future Yield in Project Area
Land      Variety                           Yield per Acre per year (bushel)
Eleva-     Group      Chance of         Mineral          Half Bog           Bog
tion       Used      Crop Failure        Soil              Soil             Soil
(ft).
Above 3 +    D       (double crop)  80 + 80 = 160    75 + 75 = 150   70 + 70 = 110
1 of 20    160x0.95 = 152   150x0.95 = 1J3  140xo.95 = 133
2+ to 3 +    D       (double crop)  80 + 80 = 160    75 + 75 = 150   70 + 70 = l10
1 of 20    l6Oxo.95 = 152   150x0.95 = 143  lbOxO.95 = 133
-+ to 2 +    B       (double crop)  35 + 35 =  70    35 + 35 =  70   35 + 35 =  70
L of 10    70 x o.6 =  L2  70  x 0.6 =  42  70 x 0.6 =   2
Table I4
Increment of Yield Before and After Project
Chance of       Single or         Yield per Acre per year (bushel)
land           Crop           double       I4ineral       Half         Bog
Elevation+   Failure            crop        Soil          Bog          Soil
(ft)     Before After   Before After  Be- Af- Incr. B.  A.  I.  B.  A.  I.
Above 3     1/10  1/20    double double 72  152  80   72  113  71 72  133 61
2+ to 3+     1/10  1/20    double double 42  152 110   L2  1L3 101 L2 133 91
1+ to 2+     U/10  8/10    single double 18   12  21.  18   42  21 18  142 24.






CEYLON
DRAINAGE AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Extension Service in Districts Containing the Project
. Av. no. of    No. of     Av. acre of   No. of
Acreage    District                              Namber of     Acres of   Cultivation   paddy per  Overseers
District     Under   Agricultural  Agricultural  Extension 3ltivation        Paddy       Committee   Cultivation Supervised
Rice      Extension   Instructors   Overseers  Committees   Supervised  Supervised    Committee    by one
Officer                                             by one       by one                     Ag.
__________             Overseer    Overseer                  Instructor
PLttalum     26,000        1             9           33          103          788           3            252    | 4
Colombo      57,500        1            17           76          322          757          4             179          4
Kalutara     43,100        1             9           45           210         771           5            205
Galle        46,000        1            10           48           213         958           4            216          5
Matara       44,500        1            11           53          197          840           4            229          5
TOTAL  1  1          5            56          255        1 ,045         851      | 4               208    |4-5
=                                     .           






CEYLON
DRAINAGE AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
SCHEMES                                  TOTAL FOR PROJECT
Bentota     Dedduwa                                                             Foreign
Right     Rantotuwila   Bolgoda   Madampe   Kirolakele  Iranavila   Local   Exchange   Total
?ARTI CIJLARS                  Bank
-                 -inRupees '000 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _
)utfall
(Groynes or Rock Removal)    100             70      2,715         300        -         1,706       2,183    2,708      4,891
Drains
(Cleaning and New)          1,860          108       2,600         172    1,126           929       3,435    3,360      6,795
Levees and Regulators          1,967           908        380         648      222            25       2,310    1,840      4,15;0
Roads (Access)                   200             -        120           -      100           110         328       202       530
Land Acquisition                 165            35        400          20      100            15         735         -       735
Construction Facilities
and Miscellaneous              208            98        485         245      152           215       1,161       242     1,403
TOTALS                    4,500        1,219       6,700      1,385    1,700          3,000      10,152    8,352    18,504
Engineering, Overhead and
Consulting Services            450           100        670         130      150           300       1,740        60     1,800
^ontingencies 20%              1,000           300      1,470         300      370           660       2,400    1,700      11,100
TOTAL PROJECT             5,950        1,619       8,840       1,815    2,220         3,960      14,292   10,112    24,40h
US$ Equivalent (Millions)       1.00          0.27       1.48        0.31     0.38          o.66        2.40      1.70      4.10
=u -
CD vr 






ANNEX 5
Page 2
CEYLON
DRAflAGE AND RECLAPLITION PROJECT
Equipment and Materials
No.        Estimated Cost
Equipment
Drilling and Blasting
Air Compressors                                3              25,000
Rock drills, bits, etc.                                        9,000
Transport
12 cu yd Rear Dumpers                         10             180,000
Farm Tractors                                 15              30,000
Trailers                                      25              25,000
Trucks 3T                                      3              12,000
Rock Handling rquipment
Crawler Cranes 5T                              2              15,000
Dredging Eouipment
Grab Dredgers 3/8 cu yd                        6             150,000
Cutter Dredger 8"1                             1              80,000
Steel Barges                                   8              88,000
Pumping Equipment                                                10,000
Vehicles
4T  4 x b                                      b              11,000
Station Wagon                                  2             10,000
Lighting
Generators                                     4              1L,000
Spare Parts                                                     110,000
Subtotal                                802,000
Contingencies 20%                                            160,000
972,000
Rounded                                ;1,000,000
Materials:  Steel                      30,000
Cement                   230,000
Blasting Materials        75,000
Gates                    150,000
Fuel and lubricants      100,000
Pliscellaneous            50,000
635,000
Contingencies 10%         65,o00
Subtotal             700,000                   700,000
Total Equipment and Imported Materials          $1,700,000






CEYLON
DRAINAGE AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Ecpenditure Schedule and Capital Costs 1/
1969/70    1970/71    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    Total
-(Rs million) - - - - - - - - - - - -
Local                                4.2         3.0        2.9         3.0        1.2        14.3
Foreign Exchange
(i)  at US$1.00 - Rs 5.95        1.8          5.4        1.2        1.1         0.6       10.1
(ii)  at US$1.00   H Rs 9.23      2.8          8.3        1.8        1.8         0.9       15.6
Total Requiremrrnts /
(i)  at US$1.00 - Rs 5.95        6.0          8.4        4.1         4.1        1.8        24.4
(ii)  at US$1.00   Rs 9.23        7.0                     14.7        4.8        2.1       29.9
g/  Figures rounded
2/   For determination of the economic rate of return, capital cost of Rs 29.9 million.equivalent
(foreign exchange component converted at "higher effective exchange rate" of US$1.00 = Rs 9.23)
was used instead of Rs 24.4 million (in which the foreign exchange corponerrt is converted to
U.S. dollars at the lower "official" exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rs 5.95).






ANNEX 6
CEYLON
DRAINAGE AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Acreage, Yields and Production "With" and "Without" Project
Without Prolect         With Project            Increment
a/ Maha   Yala   Total   Meha   Yala   Total   Maha   Yala   lotal
ACREAGE - Lands
above   3'        3,103  3,103  6,206   3,423  3,423  6,846        320    320    640
between 3' - 21   2,100  2,100  4,200   2,501  2;501  %.002        401    401    R0n
between 2' - 1'      -    4.445  4,445   7,279  7,279 14,558   7.279  2.834 10.113
Total Cropped      5,203  9,648 14,851  13,203 13,203 26,406   8,000  3,555 11i555
Acreage
YIELDS - Lands                                (buishels/acre)
_
above 3'            36.0   36.0    -       '2.0   72.0    -       36.0   36.0    -
between 3' - 2' c/ 21.0   21.0    -        72.0   72.0    -       51.0   51.0    -
between 2' - 1' d/  -      18.0    -       21.0   21.0    -       21.0    3.0    -
PRODUCTICN - Lands                           (in '000 bushels)
above 3'          111.7  111.7  223.4   246.5  246.5  493.0   134.8  134.8  269.6
between 3' - 2'    44.1   44.1   88.2   180.1  180.1  360.2   136,0  136.0  272.0
between 2' - 1'      -     80.0   80.0   152.9  152.9  305.8   152.9   72.9  225.8
Total Production
in 000 bushels/ 155.8  235.8  391.6   579.5  579.51,159.0   423.7  343.7  767.4
paddy    ……
PRODUCTION EQUIVALENT                         (in '000 m tons)
IN TERMS OF
Paddy                 3      =      8.2    12.1   12.1   24.2       848    7.2   16.o
Rice                 _.2     a         86          8.2   16.5      _        _    10.9
a/  Maha is season of northeast monsoon October to March; Yala is season of southwest
monsoon April to September.
b/  Changing from existing improved varieties to new improved varieties with increased
use of fertilizers, pesticides and weedicides.
q/  Changing from (native) 4-1/2 month varieties to new improved varieties and use of
inputs as a/ above.
d/  Changing from single crop (native) 5-1/2 month varieties to double crop (native)
4-1/2 month varieties. Details are given in Annex 2.
e/  Of this total increment 41% is attributable to increase in crop area and 59% is
increase in yields. Both of these increases are a result of the project.






ANNEX 7
Page 1
CEYLON
DRAINAGE AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Market Prospects and Prices for Rice
Rice is the staple item in the Ceylonese diet. Total consumption
of milled rice in 1968 was estimated at approximately 1.2 million m tons (100
kg per capita), of which 0.9 million tons vere produced locally. Projections
of future demand vary, depending upon assumptions regarding population growth,
income, and per capita demand (which in turn depends upon the income elastici-
ties of demand assumed).  In any case, demand for rice can be expected to in-
crease to at least 1.5 - 1.7 million m tons by 1977/1978 and probably to more
than 2.0 million tons by 1985. 1/
Imports, which averaged 524,000 tons in the 10-year period i958-
1967, supplied a substantial portion of Ceylon's rice consumption. Lbcal pro-
duction, however, has expanded significantly over the past several years -
from 0.5 million m tons of milled rice in 1959 tO 0.9 million in 1968,1 an
average increase of 5.7% per year. Imports, in Oonsequence, have declined in
the past three years. In 1966 they were approximately 485,000 tons, in 1967
about 375,000 tons, and 1968 about 343,000 tons. Most of Ceylon's imports
have come from Burma and mainland China under government contracts. If Ceylon
is able to continue expanding area and yields at a rate even somewhat lower
than maintained during the last, decade, it is likely that the country would
be self-sufficient in rice by 1978.
The local price of rice is supported under the Government's Guaran-
teed Price Scheme at Es 14 bu of paddy. From 1952 to December 1967, the
guaranteed price was Rs 12 per bu. Prices,also are affected by the Government's
provision to the entire population of a free rice ration which makes up about
45% of total rice consumption. The weighted average producer price in 1967
was Rs 13.08 a bushel and during the previous 10 years or so was about Rs 11.60.
Until recently the locally supported price was considerably above
world market prices as can be seen from the comparison following:
1/ The most recent Bank economic report, "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Ceylon" (SA-2a), Feb. 7, 1969, projects demand for milled
rice rising to 1.3-1.4 million m tons in 1973 and 1.5-1.7 million tons
in 1978. Vidya Sagar, "Demand Projections for Agricultural Commodities
in Ceylon" (UNDP Special Fund Economic Programming and Planning Project),
estimates 1975-1977 demand at 1.7 million tons. The FAO, "Agricultural
Commodities - Projections for 1975 and 1985" (Rome, 1967), puts 1975
demand at 1.8-2.0 million and 1985 demand at 2.3-2.6 million tons.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Guaranteed Price    Import Unit Value
(Rs per bu of paddy)
1964                            12                    6.94
1965                            12                    7.17
1966                            12                    7.32
1967                            12 (14 after Dec)   8.72
1968                            14                   13.60 (Jan-June)
Recent world market prices for rice have been the highest since the
early 1950's.  They presently range from approximately US$ 150 per m tons of
Burmese rice (SMS, 42% broken, FOB Rangoon) to US$ 180 per m ton of Thai white
rice (5% broken, FOB Bangkok). 'At the official exchange rate (Rs 5.95 5
US$ 1.00), these are approximately equivalent to Rs 12.50 and Rs 15.00 per bu
of paddy. Actual unit costs landed in Ceylon, of course, would vary somewhat.
Between 1970 and 1975, a large upswing in production and supplies
available for export is expected to cause a substantial decline in world rice
prices. The average FOB price for Burmese rice during that time is projected
to decline to about US$ 100 per m ton and for Thai rice to about US$ 140 per
m ton. In terms of Ceylonese rupees, these prices would approximately equal
Rs 595 and 826 per m ton of rice at the official rate of exchange.
The official exchange rate of Rs 5.95 = US$ 1.00, however, does not
adequately reflect the scarcity value of foreign exchange in Ceylon. The
Government, in recognition of this condition, has established a higher rate
of Rs 9.23 = Us$ 1.00 which now covers nearly 50% of payment transactions.
Since the trend has been to transfer more and more transactions to this higher
rate, it would be more approprie,te to use it to convert international into
local prices. At this higher rote, prices of US$ 100 and US$ 140 per m ton
of rice would be equivalent roughly to Rs 12.80 and Rs 17.92 per bu of paddy
respectively.
The following are the average landed costs of rice imported into
Ceylon during 1963 - 1968:
Average Landed Cost in Ceylon
(US$ per m. ton)
1963                100.3
1964                104.2
1965                108.3
1965                113.3
1967                124.7
1968 (9 mos)        154.2
Average             117.5



ANNEX 7
Page 3
The average landed costs, which include imports from all sources,
over this period were usually US$ 3-5 above the export prices of Bturmese rice
(SMS, 42% broken, FOB Rangoon).
Given the anticipated export price of US$ 100 per ton for Burmese
ric6, it would be reasonable to value rice produced in Ceylon after 1974/1975
(when the project works would be completed) at a minimum of about US$ 100 per
m ton. At Rs 9.23 = US$ 1.00, this would be equivalent to approximately
Rs 12.80 per bu of paddy. It is assumed that internal transportation and
handling costs to move both domestic and imported rice from point of produc-
tion or import to consuming centers can be disregarded since they are nearly
equal.






ANNEX 8
Page 1
CEYLON
DRAINAGE AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Rate of Return to the Economy
1.        The return to the ecornomy, on the investment for the above project
is estimated at 12% with charges for family labor included in tthe cost of
production. If excluded, the return to the economy would be 17%. This esti-
mate is based on the following assumptions:
(i)  The project has a life -f 50 years beginning in 1969/70.
(ii) The benefits of the project would be derived solely from
increased production of paddy.
(iii)  Full development of the project would occur in year 7 (1976/77)
of the project's life with land acreage, yields, and production
of paddy increasing to levels shown in Annex 6.
(iv) Valuation of project's output of Rs 923 (US$ 100) per m ton of
rice, which is in line with price projection of rice for
1974/75, but about 9% below prevailing farm gate prices.
(v) Included in production costs are charges for hired and family
labor (Rs 4.50 per manday).
(vi) Investment and farm production costs have been adjusted for
subsidies and taxes. Costs for imported items have been trans-
lated into local currency at the exchange rate of Rs 9.23 =
US$ 1.00.
The cost estimates (Annex 5, page 1) for the project of Rs 24.4 million
(US$ 4.1 million equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$ 1.70
million) after adjustment at the higher effective exchange rate for imported
items, total Rs 29.9 million (Annex 5, page 3).



C]TYLON
DRAINAGE AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Rate of Return to the Economy Femily Lahor Cost Included
Years                 Net Production Value                 Attributable                       Present
Without   With      Iicremental    0 & M   Incremental     Gapita.i   Worth Discounted at 125
Pro iect  Financial  Project  Project         NPV        Costs     Benefits       Costs!/  Benefits           Costs
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -(in Rupees million) - 
0      1969/70       1.3      1.3          -            -         -             7.0          -              7.0
1       1970/71      1.3      1.5         0.2           -        0.2           11.3         0.2            10.1
2       1971/72      1.3      1.9         0.6           -        0.6            14.7        o.5             3.7
3      1972/73       1.3      2.5         1.2           -        1.2            1.8        0.9              3.14
La     1973/7h       1.3      3.5         2.2          0.1       2.1            2.1        1.3              1.3
>  i97i,/75  1.3      4.7         3.4          0.2       3.2             -         1.8
6      1975/76       1.3      5.7        14.14         0.3       h.1             _          2.1
7      1976/77       1.3      6.3         5.0          0.3        4.7            -         2.1
t                     I        I           I            I         t              t           t
t               t    ~   ~     ~     ~~           ~    ~ I  t  I  t         t          t
I  I    I           I            I          I              I       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~194.7
50      2020/2021    1.3      6.3         5.0          0.3       14.7             '          '                          0o
29.9       26.5            25.5
1/ See Annex 5 (page 3) for costs used.



CEYLON
DRAINAGE AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
Rate of Return to the Economy Family Labor Cost Excluded
Years                 Net Production Value                   Attributable                Present Worth
Without   With    Incremental   0 & M    Incremental   Capital   Discounted at 17%
Project  Financial   Project  ProJecc         NPV         Costs      Benefits      Costs2/  Benefits    Costs
-- - - - --(in Rupees million) - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
0      1969/70       3.3       3.3          -            -           -           7.0         -         7.0
1      1970/71       3.3      3.6           0.3          -          0.3         11.3        0.3        9.7
2      1971/72       3.3      4.2           0.9          -          0.9          b.7        0.7        3.L
3      1972/73       3.3      5.1          1.8          -           1.8          b.8        1.1        3.0.
4      1973/74       3.3       6.5         3.2          0.1         3.1          2.1        1.7        1.1
5      19711/75      3.3      8.3          5.0          0.2        ),.8           -         2.2
6      1975/76       3.3       9.8         6.5          0.3         6.2           -         2.h
7      1976/77       3.3    10.7           74          0.3          7.1           _
t                     I        I            I            I           I            I          t
t                     t        I                         I           I            t          t
I                     t        I            I            I          t             t          t
16.3
t                     t        I            t           t            I            t          t
I  I    I                                                  t I                           D I
50     2020/2021     3.3    10.7            7.4         0.3         7.1                                            c -
29.9       24.7       2h.2
1/ See Annex 5 (page 3) for costs used.






0~~~~~~~
o                                                                    C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)~m~  IT
0 ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     >
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     -I
t  ,~~~~                              ~        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0  0J  _
0~~~~~~~~~~~
a                                                                     I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
C                                                                      C)
0~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~-



