RESTRICTED
Report No. P-746
FILE COPY
This report was prepored for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE GOVERNMENT OF CEYLON
FOR A
DRAINAGE AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
October 9, 1969



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPIENT CREDIT TO THE
GOVERNMEN T OF CEYLON FOR A DRAINAGE ANJD
RECLAMATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the followTing Report and Recommendation on a proposed
development credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
US$2.5 million to the Government of Ceylon to assist in financing a
drainage and reclamation project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        like the lift irrigation project for which the Association
made a credit in May 1968, the present project was one of several
identified by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program in 1966. Negotiations
for the proposed credit took place in Washington between September 2
and September 6, 1969. The Government delegation was led by Mr. T.
Sivagnarram, Senior Assistant Secretary of the Ministry of Lands,
Irrigation and Power.
3.        The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits to Ceylon as of August 31, 1969:
Amount (US$ million)
Year     No.N       Borrower         Purpose    Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
1954  101--CE  Government of Ceylon  Powier      15.9   -     -
1958  209-CE  Government of Ceylon   Power        7.3   -     -
1961  283-CE Government of Ceylon    Power       1)4.1   -    -
1967 520-CE   Development Finance    Industrial
Corporation of Ceylon Finance      4.o    -     3.1
1968  121-CE Government of Ceylon    Irrigation    -     2.0  2.0
1968 569-CE   Government of Ceylon   Highways    4.9    -     4.9
1968  133-CE Government of Ceylon    Highways      -    4.9   4.9
1969  634-CE Development Finance     Industrial
Corporation of Ceylon Finance      8.o   -     8.0
1969  636-CE Government of Ceylon    Power       21.0   -     21.0
Total (less cancellations)         75.2    6.9
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                11.4
Total now outstanding              63.8
Amount sold               3.3
Of which has been repaid 2.6        0.7    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA     63.1    6.9
Total Undisbursed                  37.0    6.9  43.9



- 2 -
4.        The irrigation and highway projects approved last year are
progressing satisfactorily. There have been no disbursements on these
projects to date since tenders could not be issued until after the loan
and credit documents were negotiated, and because of the time required
to complete the bidding, evaluation and ordering procedures.
5.        The only other lending operation in Ceylon likely to be
presented to you in this fiscal year is the first stage of the Mahaweli
Ganga multi-purpose irrigation and power project.
6.        IFC has not invested in Ceylon but is considering both a loan
and equity investment in a textile project, which it would finance jointly
with the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon and the Bank of
Ceylon. The uncommitted balance of $1.2 million under the first DFCC
loan (Loan 520-CE) is earmarked for this project.
7.             PART II  - DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED CREDIT
Borrower:              Government of Ceylon
Amount:                Various currencies equivalent to US$2.5
million.
Purpose:               T, assist in financing a project to benefit
about 13,200 acres of paddy lands, by
drainage and flood control, in six non-
contiguous areas along the southwest
coast of Ceylon.
Amortization:          In 50 years, including a 10-year period of
grace, through semi-annual installments of
_s of 1% from November 1, 1979 through
May 1, 1989, and of 14 from November 1,
1989 through May 1, 2019.
Service Charges:       3A/ of 1% per annum.
PART III  - THE PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report entitled "Drainage and Reclamation Project -
Ceylon" (PA-22a) dated September 17, 1969, on the proposed project is
attached.
9.        Agriculture is the largest single sector in the economy of
Ceylon. Recognizing that the scope for expansion of the major export
crops is severely circumsbribed by market couditiono,. the Government's
agricultural policy has emphasized increasing domestic agricultural
production with the twin objectives of accelerating overall economic
growth and strengthening the balance of payments by reducing food imports,
particularly rice.



10.        Climatically, Ceylon is divided into Wet and Dry Zones -
two distinct areas based on differences in the amount and pattern of
rainfall. The Wet Zone covers 30% of the land area of Ceylon and is
the country's major agricultural area, accounting for 82% of the land
under cultivation. The proposed project would benefit a total of about
13,200 acres located in six non-contiguous land areas of the Wet Zone
along the southwestern coastal belt of Ceylon. Production in these
areas is limited and hazardous due to poor drainage and frequent flooding.
The project would be part of the ongoing program conducted by the
Government to increase paddy production by drainage and flood control
of a number of low-lying lands along stream courses and adjacent to
coastal lagoons. Project works involve improvement of existing drainage
system by deepening, enlargement, and extension of the system, improvement
of the drainage outlets to the sea, and construction of levees with
control structures. These works would be completed in five years. The
project would improve drainage, reduce flood hazards, and minimize salt
water intrusion, thereby enabling some 10,000 farmers to engage in dependable
double cropping of paddy.
11.        The estimated cost of the project is US$4.1 million equivalent,
of which US$1.7 million represents the foreign exchange component. The
proposed credit of US$2.5 million equivalent iwould cover approximately
60% of the total cost and be used to finance imports of construction
equipment and materials, the services of an equipment specialist, and a
portion of the civil works expenditure which is largely local. The
remaining costs would be met by Government budget allocations. Due to
the small scale of the project, construction would be done on force
account. All tendering for procurement of equipment and imported
materials would be on the basis of international competitive bidding.
The inclusion of some $0.8 million of local expenditure is justified
by the present acute shortage of development capital in Ceylon.
12.        The Irrigation Department of the Ministry of Land, Irrigation
and Power, would be responsible for the planning, design, and construction
of the project. The Department, with the help it expects from the
employment of an equipment specialist, is capable of executing the project
satisfactorily. The project is technically sound and well-balanced.
The estimated costs are reasonable. Upon completion, the project is
expected to enable rice production to be increased by about 10,900 metric
tons a year. Assuming a price of imported rice of $100 per metric ton,
this would help to improve Ceylon's balance of payments through annual
import savings of the order of US$1.1 million. The rate of return
on the project is estimated to be about 12% if family labor is costed
at existing wqage rates, and about 17% if such labor is excluded from
production costs.



-14-
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
13.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Government
of Ceylon and the Association  the Rccoinmendation of the Comnittee provided
for in Article V, Section l(dS of the Articles of Agreement, anc the text
of a Resolution approving the proposed development credit, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
14.       The draft Development Credit Agreement conforms generally
to the pattern of agreement for agriculture projects. The following
provisions of the draft Development Credit Agreement are of special
interest:
(a)  Section 4.10 requires the Borrower to levy and collect
a service charge to cover at least operation and
maintenance costs and to make a study of benefits and
of payment capacity of farmers in the project areas to
determine the extent to which charges should also cover
capital costs.
(b) Section 4.11 provides that the Borrower shall implement
a special agricultural development program for the
purpose of increasing productivity in the project areas.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
15.       An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Ceylon" (SA-2a) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on February 7, 1969.  Paragraphs 18-22 of my report of July 2, 1969 on
the second loan to the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (Loan
No. 636-CE) contained a summary of developments up to that date.
16.       Ceylon will continue to have difficult balance of payments
problems in the coming years, owing primarily to the poor prospects
of major exports, namely tea, rubber, and coconut products. In an effort
to prevent further declines in tea prices and to stabilize them somewhat
above the level prevailing in 296O, representatives of major tea
exporting countries, meeting in Mauritius during the week of July 23,
agreed to propose to their Governments that total exports of tea in 1970
be limited to about 1300 million pounds, or about 90 million pounds
less than estimated exports in the absence of such agreement. It was
also agreed that after 1970 the annual increase in export supply would
be held to about 13-15 million pounds, which corresponds to the estimated
increment in demand. Export quotas for the thirteen largest producers
were proposed, with Ceylon and India sharing a quota of 928 million
pounds, or about 70 percent of the total.



-5-
17.       On August 11 the Executive Directors of the International
Monetary Fund approved a new stand-by arrangement for Ceylon in an amount
equivalent to US$19.5 million, and agreed to reschedule payments to
the Fund over the 12-month stand-by period. As a part of the stand-by
agreement Ceylon has agreed to increase the price of imports under the
Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate scheme from Rs. 8.57 to Rs. 9.23
to the U.S. dollar, and expand the certificate market from 33 percent
to about b5 percent of total external transactions. The agreement also
includes limitations on short and medium term external borrowing as well
as on domestic borrowing by the Government, provides for the inclusion
of commercial bank credit to Government corporations (which has been
increasing rapidly) in the credit ceiling administered by the Central
Bank, and contains undertakings by the Government to increase the
mobilization of domestic resources. On this latter point the proposed
budget for 1969/70 includes about Rs. 100 million of new revenues
primarily from new sources and revision or extension of existing sources.
18.       Ceylon has a well-conceived development program and is making
determined and generally effective efforts to carry it out, despite
unfavorable export price trends. There is considerable scope for achieving
fairly rapid economic growth and improving the balance of payments by
increasing production of foodstuffs and manufactured goods for the
domestic market and possibly for export as well. However, to accomplish
this Ceylon will continue to require substantial amounts of foreign
assistance over the next several years.
19.       The Aid Group recognizes that the magnitude and urgency of
Ceylonts foreign exchange requirements are such that it would not be
possible to channel the required assistance through project loans only.
Therefore Aid Group assistance has largely taken the form of quick-
disbursing commodity aid. In the next few years it will continue to
be impossible to achieve the capital inflows needed unless members of
the Aid Group continue to provide a significant portion of their
assistance in this form. As far as the Bank Group is concerned, it can
also help by having its loans and credits cover, in appropriate cases
such as the present one, part of the local currency expenditures on
high priority development projects.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
20.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECO1I,ENDATION
21.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development Credit.
Attachment                              Robert S. McNamara
President
October 9, 1969



